ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u1	As reported at a meeting yesterday, Presidential proposals have been delivered, as follows: ▪ We signed it, making our suggestion in line with 1st. 77st. Conventional protocol that the next meeting will be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 3. Special discussion of insurance. A verbal vendetta, Sigríður Ingadóttir, answers to the question of prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. 4. Special discussion of planned tax changes and balance in the community. Painting is Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and to answer, the minister of finance and economics is Bjarni Benediktsson. 5. Specific patient safety reports following the number of healthcare professionals reported. An apocalyptic, by Jón Þór Ólafsson, to counter this issue, will be the minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. A vote for the proposal is now being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u2	Mr. President. Now at the Jónsmess, we suggest that the smaller part of our discussion be made here at the labour market. We feel that this is very important in view of the events that are now in the labour market and that there are many classes with unsolved agreements. We also believe that it is important to discuss the equation in the community, that is very urgent, and there are issues such as mass reports in the Land Hospital, in the medical institutions, which are still imminent, although contracts have been dealt with, which, of course, are very good, but there is no question whether these contracts will be approved by the law. And as long as there is uncertainty as to whether any disclosures will be retracted, I think it's important to discuss these matters at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u3	A respectable president. For the council it is mentioned in January, a discussion request for a special discussion is provided, and we have requested that these be taken on the program. It is natural that for six months the Ministers will not accept such requests and will not converse with us members of Congress. It is our job to provide the European Commission with support, and we do so through specific discussions. As long as there is no work schedule here, there are no special discussions, there are no verbal inquiries, and we are exactly kept away from the Commission. We are suggesting that these discussions be taken on the program, that the discussion of the state of the health system will be taken up because of facts, that the discussion of the insurance will be taken up, that will be discussed in the community, and the impact of tax reforms on it. Why are people not ready for this discussion? Is it because, as the chairman of a legal committee recently said, men will not cancel their insurance policy? [[The president calls.]] Is this because there is no plan to do what should be done on the waiting lists of the health system and how to meet the information there? [[The president calls.]] That's probably the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u4	V.E.G. President. I've come to the front row to order my calls. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur. I said in a speech yesterday that he called his political opponents political insurgents and reptiles. That's not true. I'd like to make myself available to you, and I'd like to handle that as a matter of course. A senator said in his discussion on February 24, 2014, with the permission of a president: A wonderful president. In this case, we are exposed to any layer of political insurgents that appoint this government, any layer of political lints that dare not handle this case in a national law. That's where I made a mistake, Mr. President. I said, "What?" A senator would have said a reptile, but he had told a soft animal about his political opposers. Let it be true, and I'm willing to correct this misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u5	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, they would take a turn. Councilmen Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson for the takeover of their business banks on three savings. In their talks, they discussed the indifference of the Contestant and the F.O.B. with these actions. That's exactly what I want to talk about right now, the surveillance role, and the indifference of these institutions. During the past few months, people have approached me, who have been having problems with business banks. These individuals share the common obligation not to get a release in these financial institutions, but the concerned individuals have been with foreign or dwindling loans that have been condemned in both Iceland's district and U.S. Supreme Court. Despite this and despite the fact that various economists, including Within the university, and the common eaters of these individuals and business banks have reached conclusions on recycling, the bank still refuses to calculate individual loans. Among these individuals have been seeking justice from the FDA because of the conduct of these business banks. To make a long story short, everyone points to someone else who is to be responsible. As a result, these individuals have not had anything to do with their affairs. The only answers people get is that the incident will be recorded, but there is nothing else to be done. The website of the FEC shows that, among other things, the Agency has to monitor business banks, which appear to be a number of failures, so I just wanted to agree that I'm surprised at the apparent indifference there is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u6	V.E.G. President. There is reason to rejoice over a contract with nurses, and hopefully we'll agree on that deal. It was successful to land the collective labour market agreements rationally and better - looking administration of the government, treaties that go beyond those of the past. We know the events that begin when the rising cost of collective agreements is slided into the prices, and there is already evidence of increases in prices due to collective agreements. Despite the efforts of the Federal Bank to raise interest even now, for the sake of prevention of inflation, I am afraid that interest increases may have the opposite effect. As companies increase the cost of enterprises, especially in smaller and medium-sized enterprises, they reduce their ability to cover higher costs of pay, or they may be sliding into the prices. A home with the largest part of a debt in financial debt is less likely to experience the growth that is added to the head chair and spreads on the monthly payment rate than is to accumulate as a debt for the future. As a result, growing numbers can take the lead in reducing savings, investments, and poor financial resources. On the other hand, theflation aims of the money policy and by means of the growth device are, in effect, virtually one weapon of the Secret Bank, clarifying its share of responsibility and responding to positions and expectations. So we need to look closer. Priceability is desirable, and increasing financial power is an essential product of contracts. It can be achieved by the combined efforts of all, by increasing discipline and savings in all businesses, by state of the economy, by businesses, and by homes. The most profitable savings will continue to pay off debt. The government has set an example by its actions and needs to continue in that course, show support in government spending, pay down debt, and encourage further savings. Thus, pressure on growth increases and desirable equilibrium is more likely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u7	Mr. President. In view of the discussion that has taken place here yesterday and in many recent days, where members of the Parliament are often a bit preoccupied with themselves and what is taking place here within the walls, I would like to draw attention to many who are now using their own physical strength to strengthen various issues. Among other things, the WOW Cyclothon contest is now held for the fourth time, with over 1st of you. 116 teams are going to cycle the Whale Hill and over Axi in less than 72 hours. This morning alone of 40 came down by Axi and got soup from Guðný's new daughter of Ingimundardóttir, in Deepvogur, and, of course, were very beautiful after a difficult ride. This year, this group is planning to build up the Bath - sheba Center in the mental field of the Land Hospital at a time. At this month's convention of 30th, a group of 12 are going to run round to call attention to a high rate of young men's suicide in Iceland, and it is a work in cooperation with Psychiatry and the Red Cross under the heading Out, or where young men are encouraged to put their feelings into words to help them avoid rejecting emotional tensions with unforeseen consequences. As we know all too well, suicide is one of the most common causes of death among young Icelandic men, ranging in recent years. Thus, in five 24 - hour Western islands, the contribution of this team will be to run around the country. Each runner will have to finish 30 to 40 miles per day. It is a very unselfish work that is being done. Finally, I would like to remind me of UNICEF, who will be among those who will become a source of relief in Reykjavík, but this year the funds that will be used there for the distress created in Nepal. It has revealed, as we know after the earthquake struck, that there is great distress. [[The president calls.]] So I thank the men who are working hard there, and I want to look out a little bit of the box in this house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u8	Mr. President. On this beautiful day, Johnsun, I'd like to discuss only what we've been discussing recently at the council, hopefully at the end of the week, that there's much disagreement going on within the council, between the council members, even harassment. My experience with this workplace is not like this, and I believe that over the waters a whole line of good spirits flows across categories, apart from party to group, even within categories is friendship, so I think we are friends. Senators are not so bad at the end of the day. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I wish we could continue to cultivate good friendships here amongst us senators, away from political differences. It's healthy to deal with politics, and that's why we're elected at the Council, to deal with politics. We often use metaphors, the English language, to express our views on politics, but that does not mean that we mean it in the fullest sense to those we are expressing our views. I don't think we should be too sensitive to ourselves, we should rather keep using the nuclear language rather than cycle the subject. We must show respect for one another, continue to love our neighbor and our nation, and strive to do the best we can, each of us individually. Finally, I suggest that the dinner system be removed from the current picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u9	A respectable president. Imagine a company with the budget to have exactly 63 employees at work. Then let's imagine that there are six divisions in this company, two of which are 19 persons, in one number seven, in six, one nine, and then perhaps you can expect the computer department to pick up three men. If we set this up so that to increase in their department, each officer needs to get someone expelled from another department, that's to happen by talking about the person, how would you think a business like this would work? What I'm trying to do here, a respectable president, is that when people think that the high Council can at some point work for some sort of professional standards in the same way that you run a business, I think it's wrong. It's a political institution that needs to live with the fact that there are political processes here. I mention it because the differences we rightly speak about here are because it is deeply profound, rich, and long lasting, we must look to political solutions. I mean, once again, a respectable president, that the political solution to the political problem here is more democracy. It's not the atmosphere here on a town that needs to be improved; in fact, I remembered that it was hardly the work method because while the situation is the way it is now, while the rules are the way they are, tensions, even intractive conflict, when it's the only way to beat things through, either with fres or with other forms of conflict. This nation must be given the opportunity and the right to act in such a way that the people here are benefiting from speaking well of and with each other. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u10	President. It is not surprising that we ourselves are occupied with ourselves these days, but there is a small number of people out here who have a diminished potential for expression. It is not traditional freedom of expression. It is the fact that these people live in the cry code of expression, i.e. When the funds are finished, they cannot express themselves or enjoy social relations in the community. This is, in fact, a more difficult and complex situation than most of us here can imagine, but we agreed on by all legal requirements. 61/2011, about the status of Icelandic Sign Language and Icelandic Sign Language, says that countries and rural communities should ensure that all who need it have an opportunity to serve in Icelandic Sign Language. There is now a law on health care and education systems and laws that apply to the courts that the deaf live in interpretation services in these sectors of society. The rest is what is called an interpretation of daily life. We're talking about job interviews, house meetings, weddings, family reunions, real estate, bank interviews, etc. According to Danish legislation on interpretation services for deaf people, those who have the right to perform such service are always able to reason that otherwise they cannot share in the community to the same degree with other citizens. This is very clear in the Danish Law, and the Danish Ministry recently issued a announcement listing all the situations in the lives and function of sign - language people in which interpretation services should always be ready for these people. This is an inevitable legal adjustment in Iceland following the 2011 law, and I proclaim that I will present, hopefully, with a transphere source, a bill to fix in the autumn that will be in this spirit so that we will be separated from the position that year after year deaf live having to put up with reduced freedom of expression for months to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u11	V.E.G. President. It is proper to describe the particular satisfaction of a collective agreement with nurses, and hopefully more groups will follow, those who have not missed their agreements. Hopefully, this will be the beginning of continued stability in Iceland, although it is certainly bold. Yet, you should be concerned about the news that the rise of goods is taking place now, even before bargaining is approved. An expansion of the Federal Bank last week will not help you in this unless it is less. I'm sure it plays a major role in increasing prices, but the consumers have published an increase in prices on their website, and all consumers are worthy to enter that site, e.g.is, because there is a list of suppliers that have raised prices. I'm not going to read this supply up to its own, but I'm going to have to go in there and take a look at it because it's an increase of 2.5% to 14%. In this context, it should be noted that during the last 12 months, the Icelandic king's gang has gained about 3% of its major coins. Then I mean the euro and the northern coins. While an American dollar has risen, only a small part of the products brought here come from America, and in itself there is no excuse for humans to start raising products before the paper is dry from the ink on the dress contracts. [[The president calls.]] I encourage a person to be moderate and calm in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u12	A respectable president. The long spring strike is nearing its end. There's a lot of joy in the community that we've been able to negotiate with nurses last night, the only most important profession of the health system, and the quality of it. We have experienced medical disputes and controversies between other health groups during the winter, and this has produced a great sense of security in our community, insecurity that we do not want to live up to again. We never want to live up that winter again. We need to find ways not to threaten the safety of patients and people in the country again. It is neither our will nor ours, and finding ways to do so is, of course, a common task. At that time, trade unions that have recently proclaimed strikes have been written, so it can be said that almost everyone in the labour market has reached the end of collective labour contracts. What a cause for joy that is! I agree with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, when he says that this time store, services, banks, and others need to be moderate and see if they can't take on the pay raise for business. Many have already proved that they should be able to live up to collective agreements. It has been observed that the contracts are not to threaten stability, and it is important that the last groups, BHM, come into it, complete their contracts and show that they are also in a fight but not in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u13	A respectable president. I'm going to start by taking the bottom off with what. Svandís Svavarsdóttir for interpretation services. In 2011, we passed a bill to correct the recognition of sign language, and therefore it is unacceptable for those who use the language that has become the right to become active citizens of the community. There's something else I wanted to mention. News reports on the radio today as well as in newspapers reports that the director of the Children's Protection Agency has been acquitted by eight comments that he agreed on the Street Center in the past. News of this is in a way that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health must come to watch how such institutions, which accept funds from their jobs, if for a second time, are so unsatisfactory that things that are really going to work. If their institutions are involved and are there to seek help, words and/or actions are offended, as they did in the so - called Byrgis language and appear to be here, it is the obligation of governments to give money to such institutions to make sure that this effective surveillance does not come only when the clients look elsewhere because they have been wronged in one way or another. It's an ugly story, a respectable president. It's not fair what's behind the just director of the Children's Protection Agency, it's a bad story, and it's our duty to keep this from happening. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u14	A respectable president. I'm very upset about the medical situation, and I'm very disturbed by the government's charges against it. Some 200 medical personnel have quit their jobs. There's no evidence that they're evading the layoffs. While it was written yesterday, I still pointed out that members of the community themselves still have to accept the contract, and the director of the nurses'community told the press today that he was reasonably optimistic about the fact that they did not reach their goals, but he considered this to be a more promising position. I don't think people should celebrate until the vote is in the house. And I don't feel comfortable with the kind of people here who are concerned about this situation, the company that has come up in the medical system. The director of the Land Hospital has already told us that it will take considerable money to win them out, and it can also be asked: " How will people react if the reports remain? I feel like there's no plan at all. We haven't seen a plan on how to deal with this, and I feel that people are kind of loved. I'm worried about this, and we make a routine suggestion because we count a lot of people in this room, especially in the government position, important to pick up these issues. So I call out for it and again that the President is beginning to set up a work programme so that we can have a special discussion. A respectable president. I'll finally agree with what. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter's trouble and thank her for taking up the sign language because it's not easy for us to restrict the human rights of the major groups of Icelanders, knowing that the budget is not worth it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u15	A respectable president. I think it's a bit of a special tone. The members of the government stand, I think we must be glad that the contracts have been made, and hopefully the next one will come to that conclusion. [[Up front.]] I hear experienced members of the government are uncomfortable with the way younger members speak, for it is of course irresponsible to speak in this way, especially in view of the fact that everyone who wants to know that this government has set the priorities for health care and has not received support from the hospital. Opinion to do so. [[Up front.]] We can go through all the numbers, every speeches, every job, for example. A budget to look at it. The numbers speak for themselves, they're completely available. I'm going to discuss another thing, because I checked here as if I've done many times about certain factors involved in the financial market, to the banks. [[Up front.]] The general rule is that you have been answered, both when you have asked the institutions to appear to the committee to monitor this and also when you have produced written inquiries. Two months ago, however, I asked a written inquiry, received an answer to it that was out and south, or simply said that it would be. Not at all. Now we are talking about a number of hundreds of billions of interests, and it was said: "Hv. It's none of the business of the General. It is of great interest if we are in the position of banking institutions approaching the General Assembly and thus the public in this way. I'm glad to see what I'm doing. paritaprevir Unnur Brá's beloved Konráðsdóttir has asked for a meeting on the Economic and Business Committee to discuss this, but I'd like to recommend it as well and encourage it. A president to look into these matters. It is a big deal if these systematicly important institutions, in one way or another, are responsible for the responsibility of taxpayers, unfortunately, get away with not answering queries. Senators. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u16	The president agrees with that. A senator, of course, that it is unacceptable if answers are insufficient to ask questions at the moment. Senators. The president does not know exactly what authority he has to put into practice that questions are answered in ways that are not done but will use in these matters in behalf of the council and the information required.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u17	A respectable president. I agree with the President. I would like to be joined by members of the United States Congress and with the members of the Independence Party and the Left Motion to the need for all members of the Parliament at the General Assembly to ensure the deaf to interpret services in the activities of daily life. In 2011, we were united in important legislation at the council, and we need to follow it along with clear and unambiguous human rights for the deaf to be interpreted into the work we all need to do. We, who have received full hearing in the womb, are under obligation to ensure that those not given are guaranteed the human right to engage in activities of daily life through the interpretation services they normally need. A respectable president. I made a note of the largest case in this election period, which is under consideration by the Directorate of the Economic and Business Committee, found that currency capitals, stable taxes, and the renovations of the fallen banks, which are the busier parts under the lead of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, have been assigned to pay in the last term. It is making very dramatic decisions, and considering a financial and business committee, there have been a number of factors that are very important for the committee and the council to take the time to review, including the stability conditions under which these suggestions are being based and also the final outcome of the conditions to be set and what the assembly should have to do with it. I'd like to emphasize that this is not a place to crash with any evening and weekend meeting to complete such a significant matter. [[The president calls.]] Here the council needs to take the time needed to take note of the details of this important matter before it is resolved, for this can have profound consequences for the long future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u18	Mr. President. V.E.G. The President does not know exactly how to support him in ensuring better information flows, including from counsellors. V.E.G. A president can help. The Piranians have provided a legal bill on the information and the family of ministers of truth. It is a very reasonable and moderate requirement in this bill, just that, according to Article 1 office, counsellors are obliged to respect the violation of information ministers. a law on the matter of being a minister of responsibility, and that it is added to the Minister's legislation that the Minister must not, of intent or grand nod, give misinformation or hide information in a case that the General Assembly has in mind and have a significant significance for the Senate's evaluation of it. This is something the president of the council can do. He can set this matter up. Then we can get it into a committee and immediately in a review process, and it would immediately trigger this case to get better information from counsellors. Regarding the truth, in Western democracies it is this way that if we are to be seen in court as witnesses, that is, in most democracies, we must take an oath to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. You see, there's a reason they put this in. A person is not accepted as a witness in judicial matters unless he is told the whole truth. Half the truth can be said and really can be misled by men with half the truth. When it is said that nurses demand a 20% raise, it is not all the truth, the requirement for a long period of time, many years, meaning that the annual increase is much smaller. The whole truth is not being told, and the requirement is not a clear picture. [[The president calls.]] But the president can help to clarify the role of the minister of truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u19	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, the Union's female movement held a seminar on the effect of legislation on the purchase of prostitution in Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. The seminar was briefed by sosican, Swedish, Finnish, and German senators, who participated in Icelandic, Norwegian, Swedish, Finnish, and German Parliaments. I had a talk about the effects in Iceland, and the results are striking. We will not do near enough to enforce the law. In view of this issue, it is apparent that when the police give this class special attention, such as the 2013 issue of 167 cases of illegal prostitution in police interest, the year before and the year after. Police authorities appear to be insufficient, and because of violations of these laws, they are closed. Despite their desire for open trial, the State's prosecutor, police, and female judges need to be subdued by a greater part of the conclusion of a male judge in the Supreme Court. I will now propose a written request to the highest level. The secretary of the state to ask if a legal adjustment is necessary to ensure an open trial on these issues and whether there is a basis for extra investigation based on the bounds of the fractures. I expect a positive reaction from the highest. Minister of Olöfu Nordal, I believe we here on the land all agree that we don't want to buy power over another human being.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u20	A respectable president. I wanted to remind the president that it is now June 24th and the Council is still sitting without a plan. During the days when the council stopped for a weekend, I was at the Britishafjörður. As I sat in the midst of a larceny, I heard an endless singing of birds from all directions, and although I could not understand a word of what those birds said, I felt that they were refreshed, even in a tearing cup, and this experience made it possible for me to be affected by the singing of the birds and to make me happy. The birds put the tone. The Council makes a law, but it's not our only role. A press conference is also a seminar in which we discuss society's issues, and this seminar is prominent. We are sent out directly, and even full - time media are watching us and sharing what is going on here. It puts a tone. Of course, what is discussed here and how we are affected in our community, just as the bird scene affected me. The discussion is the responsibility of all of us, and the discussion at the Council is largely made up of the subject. The responsibility rests heavily on the board, on what subjects they set up, and on what issues they are taking care of, and on the President of the Generals. It may not be strange to see evidence of total chaos in the national seminaries at the General Assembly. There's got to be a better way to do it. We generals know how to talk, we're not birds, we're men, although we can certainly claim that there are some weirdos in the group. [[For example, name them.]] Well, then... Finally, I'd like to agree with others and remind you that the social interpretation fund is still empty and it's a disgrace. A few million people are needed to ensure minimum services, i.e. 8◯10 hours a year for the deaf. For 200 Icelanders, interpretation is a key to sharing in society. In this context, I'd like to remind a president that from now on, we are discussing the support of the state on a project at Backka for several billion. A seminar is a seminar, and the tone we put is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u21	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 41/2013, on authorization for Ministers, on behalf of the state funds, to finance infrastructure through the work of the Northern Parliament, with subsequent changes. The bill is brought by a greater part of the employment committee, the why. The members of Jón Gunnarsson's son, Lilja Hynu Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Benediktsson's son, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristjorni L. Möller, Jóhann Pálsson's Þorsteinn, Sæmundsson the son of Sæmunds, and Thordrundur's Egilsdóttir. The bottom line of the case is that during the last term, legal action is to prepare for the construction of jobs in Backka, making some knots that a major industry could be built on an adequate industrial cover. Part of that project was to set a tunnel to connect the industrial landscape and the port zone. The requirement for a change in the law on this particular project is that of a professional body, i.e. the show itself. In 1st. The bill says, with President's permission: ▪ The word ◆ which costs up to 1,800 million. At the end of 2012 a- team 1.mg. 1st par. The law will fall away. The reason for our suggestion to extract this text and to have just an undisclosed amount is that preparation for legislation at its time was inexplicable, i.e. There were insufficient budgets for the cost of this process and it has been found to be much more expensive than previously calculated. There is now a cost plan up to 3,200 million. K. instead of 1,800 million. K. as previously planned. In this case it has been observed that there may have been a significant increase in soil growth as a result of an earthquake risk in the area than previously thought, since the preparation of the case seemed to have been based solely on the gross cost of hierarchical and road repairs, but this process is not similar to the standard construction that we know one person most of the general road system. There's more earthquake risk, the tunnel is wider, and they also have to endure more heavy transport. Road lines and treatments have also been changed, so there is also an increase in cost. As for the whole thing, I can say a lot, but I still want to say that I'm glad that this job structure in the country of Bakka and in the North is about to begin. I think it's really important to this area. A country in which some 40 years have been experiencing significant changes in the development of a major industry, I know that this development in the country of Bakka and the currently started will change enormously for the settlements and for the human life surrounding them. This does not change, however, that there is an enormous expense that the government is going to set in order for the development of these projects. This has been done in many cases when a major industry has been built. For example, whether we were to mention Grundartan, Straumsvík, in our time or in a time of emergency, was a public assembly. When we discuss this matter, what is most eye - eyed is the preparation for the legal process that triggers the huge development of the final budget. From these preparations, we can learn much. For example, it is not quite clear who was to get the information and how the information is being received at this stage when these programs need to be developed, that they are to be considered better. It is clear that it is controversial whether or not we should save a building belonging to this incarceration or these initiatives at the Department of Employment, not to the road office, the Department of Internal Affairs. When they start talking about it, and I've participated in meetings about it, both at once. Work committee and shit. The budget, it points to one another in the system. Still, we cannot avoid remembering that it is, of course, the responsibility of those who agreed to these laws, which was a general and broad solidarity in the council of their day. These are the main reasons why a professional employment committee carries this bill and wants to lift the law I've reported in order to the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs will be able to complete their part of these infrastructures and thus gain the privilege of getting the job to the level that the road can provide for this construction and construction. Although today's estimated cost is 3.2 billion dollars. It is by no means possible to know the final cost. We don't have the results yet in place, since they haven't been made, and perhaps early in the process, to claim final numbers in that subject. As we put the text in this bill, it's now open. As I've read before, so this bill is for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u22	A respectable president. I appreciate the manager of this case, please. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, for his number here. As we have seen, this case is very strange, but it was the product of the last government. That's the highest. Professional minister, current drive. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, saved this project in his Ministry, which is an isolated, respectable president, when there is so much financial authority, as well as the nature of the project. The financier's got a representative of the Roadmaker and a representative from the Department of Employment, pointing one another to another, as it were. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson went over, and in fact, this assignment is an orphan. That's why I'd like to ask the senator if it's not right to follow the route of this assignment, that the operation will be carried out under the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Treasures. Regarding the amount in question, an initial figure of 1800 million was expected on the job when it was being introduced into the council, to the doorpost, but it is now estimated to be 70% higher than when these laws were agreed and will likely end to 3.2 billion. So I ask the senator: " Is it acceptable when such a project is initiated that they are so unconvinced and indistinguishable that the future is really being made open?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u23	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I want to try to address her questions and start with the first question about where to save the project. I just made it clear in my history that I believe we can learn from where we should save these projects so that our responsibility is clear and effective. At least, I think it's revealed that this time it's not working out the way we've experienced it. I did not list in the story what is shown in a paper with the bill from what. Work committee, the importance of the added funds needed for this project is not to be taken from the financial resources that are involved in the national transport work. This is especially true of the committee. What may be the problem of saving this from the State Department is that people in the transport program are going to have to deal with such infrastructure projects, which is why the government has to be decided in a very clear way. I agree with the senator that the responsibilities and saving need to be explained much more. The second question is, Is it acceptable for the work to be as effective as it really is? It is not acceptable to have to swallow, since we are now facing this enormous cost. It has simply appeared in the work of the committees that I referred to earlier, both earlier. I would like to say, Mr. President, some reference list of yards to a tunnel without fully investigating it, although they knew that the tunnel was in this place with a broader format, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u24	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Yeah, it's clear to me. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Stegiur went the Greek way we know her. He actually made a special project outside a government fund, apart from a transport program, felt this way, and hosted the project under himself when he was a professional minister. It's very striking. This is not the only case since the last term of the year. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask found a way of passing past the state funds and state responsibilities and going the Greek way. Because the present government is behind them, it is our business to improve this matter and put it in the place where it is supposed to be. But there may be only hope. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask has chosen the Greek way for me to understand from his own words that he was asked for in Greece to clean up the financial affairs of the Greek state. He's been quick to learn. As for the report provided with this bill, I expect the bill to come from the Department of Employment. Then I'd like to point it out. paritaprevir This belongs to Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, who sits on both a staff and a financial committee, to make a careful consideration of the committee with this bill for the 2nd. Because it is actually wrong to show in the report that there is no tradition for specifying a certain amount of money on the legal basis. It is now, a respectable president, that it is always required that a special authority be given, and a minister of ignorance is always entrusted with a certain number, borrowing everything to it. So I'm asking the senator to put a good watch on this business committee and make it better. Then I'm going to give a talk below to review this matter better and to tear it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u25	Mr. President. I'll take the sharpening. The senator shall be serious and shall try to be a sign of mine in this matter. I'd like to say again what I mentioned in my background that I'm glad to know that these projects have begun. I can't hide the fact that I find generous donations of public resources in preparing the project, but there is also much work to be done when building jobs in the country. I referred to coming from the district where we had the job structure that can follow up on such projects as the one to discuss. It is very popular, or was, at the beginning of Projects of Grundartan, to talk about decompositioning agriculture following its activities and starting from 1975. Then I'm going to say, because I have a place to do it in the Generals' chair right now, that there has been little support for agriculture in that region more than a major industry, which I believe will also happen in the territory we deal with here. Simply put, there is a lesson that we can learn from this: The way we handle it is important, and it is a perfect penalty for preparing for the legal arrangement that we need to be in that situation today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u26	Mr. President. I was just going to come up here in my blueest innocence and join the party. At last, the senator felt that this project was about to begin. On the other hand, I was so stunned by a talk. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that I cannot help but share with her in my talks afterward. Allowing himself to come up here with the spoken language as well. A senator mocked, mocked, and insulted the Greek people in their midst today, spoke, in effect, against these projects on Backka, and appears to be joined by those who wish to work against projects in the country, and the slap she handed. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, from far away, I'll be glad to take my cheek and bring out the others too. Something like this, Mr. President, is in opposition to the Mass as it is. In these last days, the senators have talked about being polite, of being mannerly. Hv. A senator allows himself to come down here and draw abuses over his head. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then giving a different talk in a similar spirit to his absence. Well, that's nice. What would that be? paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir says about this behavior. A senator? She's supposed to come here and see her dignity in it below and apologize to Greece for the big words she made to them. Mr. President. That's all I want to do. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson fell here. I'm here to celebrate this project, and it's on its way. I agree with him completely that there are, of course, certain questions that need to be answered. I'd also like to say, just to make it clear, although I don't know this case in the skin, I would have thought perfectly normal that it would be saved in the state of state as well. A senator said. But I would like to ask. A senator, and that was my second purpose here: In what way is it to ensure that the extra money needed for this will not be taken from the short amount of money being donated for transportation in the coming year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u27	Mr. President. It's not easy for me to answer that question. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. But I choose to respond to what he directed toward me at the end of his opponent, how we're going to ensure that the money will not be taken from the common road. It has been observed in the case of the highest degree. The secretary of the state that it agrees with the majority of the employment committees in order to arrange matters so that we will not be trapped by the limited resources we have for the construction of roads in Iceland. We must arrange in such a way that this funding will be specifically marked and will not result in a decrease in the amount of money that goes to the road. I'd be happy to admit, Mr. President, that I would rather have seen these billions, which we now have to add to this project, go to building up bonds in our vast regions, which we have many of whom we live every day have to drive malar roads to and from work and drive schoolchildren, etc. But the other also, I would like to bring forward, and continue with the thread I've spliced here in history and answers, that it's a saber branch to succeed in turning back from development, i.e. To be able to carry out such major projects. Whether we like it or not, we need to work hard on it, and we like it. I can admit that I like it well to see in the presence of more large initiatives in the area of our energy, and we should be able to unite in clearing the course so that the construction activities in those areas, whether in the Backka or in other parts of the country, should be very successful. But there are other stoppers that we are not discussing in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u28	Madam President. I owe you what? paritaprevir He probably apologized to Haraldur's son Benediktsson's request because he was absolutely correct in saying that an answer I gave him earlier was very unusual, but I just don't subject it to it at any time. Senators are coming here, like hell. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir, and heaping insults upon an absent senator in the way she did on the other hand. But answer me what. In both cases, I understand that a senator was quite boyly, and I understand that he wondered how that cost in terms of this project is being exceeded by strategy. I recall, though, that here it was, in either his answer before or in his history, that the source has been changed, the line set has been changed. I don't know about it, but no doubt this has resulted in considerable expense. However, it is quite clear that this is a major project laid on the foundation in the time of the last government. It is true that certain inquisitors are forced to complete the task, but it is the same as all of us here have been to unite or, at least, have to agree with the law on wills, including, and perhaps only to try to get foreign companies to invest in places, especially in the country. I'm saying for myself, a Reykjavíkur mouse I am, that I'm just fully supporting it. I believe not to spend money in an effort to trust roots in the country, say what a man was born and raised, and live in Reykjavík, 101. It is well worth it; it matters; and it hath profit and riches to keep the land inhabited.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u29	A respectable president. I'll take an apology. Skarphéðinsson But he may have a place of speech that he would like to discuss. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir if she chooses to speak up on this matter. What I'd like to say and say maybe again, that it's only obvious when people have to process these laws and put them in action that the preparation of them was inexplicable. It has nothing to say whether you are opposed to projects in the northern part of the world or to construction of the industrial landscape. I also refer to the fact that we are stuck with it, and it turns out that the U.S.A. does not provide sufficient terms for a matter commonly called the strongest, and can delay the introduction of more water - power activations to a colony become very serious to us. It may be unappreciative to refer to that discussion in a later answer to the question. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Ophphédinsson, but I'd like to say, too, whether I've mentioned this law on Backing sometime, the last government, the left of the government, is open to us, that we can't stop making it so that we can go into the big business. We cannot afford to remember to be in opposition to the big day and the second day with a big day, depending on where it is located or who it stands. And I'm very concerned that if we don't succeed in handling the matter of Congress, the box, in an adequate way that we are missing out on wonderful opportunities, opportunities that may finally lead us to the next generation of the big business that is now environmentally important but the big business that has been built, which is just doing the productions of the industry, making them more valuable and productive work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u30	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for sharp yet short history for the members of the Committee. I want to make it perfectly clear that I support the proposal presented here in this bill. I believe that it is uncomfortable and unfortunately difficult to say otherwise, as this matter has been said, but that it would have been desirable for humans to have been able to explain more clearly the costs involved. I'm sure there's an explanation I don't know, that's all I'm saying. On the other hand, I'd like to make it clear that I'm very ill at this time, Madam President, when we're discussing such a case. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir holds this enslocation over one of the delegates, slaps him in the back and back, and then announces that she will give a special speech directly to ride with a distant senator, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stylus is truly a man to receive the pistrom, and the cabins from anyone, both the one standing here, if so, but certainly also by the wind. Chairman of the budget board. And I have to say, Madam President, it was a lot more interesting to listen to what happened. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, he certainly brought up grammatical, legitimate differences in the prehistoric history of this case, but he also learns from it and suggests in the future how people should handle such matters. I want to say that I agree completely with him on that. I believe it would be much more beneficial in all of this, which is nothing but a transport project, to be subject to the Department of Transport. The rest of it is so much different to listen to what it is. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It comes right here, directly into the fact that the Specialist Party has made it a favor to send up two members of Congress here to promote shame over the way they behave in these sales. It is spoken of as a crime, aback, a bullying, the use of two - year - olds. Councilmen of the Future Party, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Lára Arnardóttir, last night. Then we're gonna have a snooze. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and behaves in exactly this way. Madam President. It's very difficult to see consistentity in this, but just so I said it here, I think it's just the same thing as when it's the highest level. Prefected by the media, the prime minister speaks of him as being under constant pressure by the media. Of course, he's beating them to the ground. When people come up here and allow themselves to insist, though at times the gills, that when they do, it is some kind of harassment to the highest level. Prime Minister, this is no more than an opportunity to silence those who allow themselves to criticize the highest things. Prime Minister. That's what I want to say. About the enthusiasm. I have to say that now when Greece is fighting for its economic life, when the Greek nation has more tribulation than since the military regime left power in the Hauksdóttir, it will not be allowed to come up here and down here and down here, just so that it can ride through a door to close and pay off. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon slapped. It's so perfectly out of shape. The senators of the convention we've been sitting here with a smile on, putting us on the laughingstocks, since we can't laugh at it. The senators of the forward party, they get on their nerves, that's what's happening in that town, but it's totally out of the cow. But truly I will sit at each speech. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and so all day long, he is ashamed of Greece and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. As for the project we're discussing here, I have to say that it was prepared in the time of the last government, it was made possible by the last government, such as using probe all major projects and all larger projects as now, when two years have passed by the vote period, are on the table of the present government. There's no job, so that's all. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir hears it, which is on the drawing table as the current highest level. A government has produced its own strength and power. The project that is here at Grundartanga, Silicor, a variety of people. Councilmen talk about it, taking care of it only in their speech. paritaprevir Haraldur's son Benediktsson that it was being destroyed by not accepting any specific suggestions from now on. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son - well, let's think and stick to it, too: What is at present. A government on that matter? Nothing, just nothing. It is declared to the back and back, back and forth, every day when the next question is: Why did Silicor come to Iceland? Yeah, why did Silicor come to Iceland, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir? Because there was a free trade deal with China. That's the only reason, no one else. So I'm back to Húsavík, where there's a big industry that's much better suited to Húsavík than the task. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and hers were here for years trying to drag on the northeast corner, where everyone knew that it could not be built because there were 400 megawatts of energy that do not exist unless people are planning to attack the Shiver River and both fortresses there. That's what happened. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir wanted and wanted to attack also at the Gobbets. Just to the point, it was the last government that both implemented, granted permission and advised for Theist dam, the industrial minister who sat in that chair from 2007, and proposed an expansion of the project following studies that indicated it, just as the industrial minister was sure, there was much more energy there than it was then in public figures. This brings many benefits to the northeast corner. Not only does Húsavík benefit from this, but he certainly deserves it. The next town next to you, The State, is getting up because of that, too. There's a lot of work in the ideal community with any kind of project related to the activation of The Watchtower rather than just that, very cleverly made a contract between the Þingalte and the land activations, basically results in a kind of resource expenditure made each year by the countryside at tens of millions of dollars. Hence, there are under two substantial laws that really have a lot to do with this project. And this government, Madam President, so I'll only kill on it because of the speech being delivered earlier. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, she has nothing in it, if I may, by permission, maintain it. A senator can, in another way, review it. This is how you can review the major projects that are ahead of you in Iceland today. All can be traced to the last government. It's Silicor, who I've gone over here, who is now at the highest level. Industrial Minister has nothing to do with it, but I'm sure she'll enjoy it from that project. Thorsil, who was proposed to the Ministry of Industrial Affairs since 2008 and other projects there, also, far smaller projects than the very worlds that have been fantasizing over the years, as well as the diversity of our industrial productions. By heeding the prevalence of the last government, OECD's advice, the European Economic and Development Agency, is about not to place more eggs in the aluminium basket, instructions that first began to show up in OECD reports at the end of 2008 and that have been repeated all over the world. And of course it matters. Hv. The members of the administration team, including the case, are members of the administration. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, has at times discussed various assignments, such as this one. data source. Well, that's so, some data plants have come up, and sometimes it's just at the top of the world. A industrial minister I had no intention of saying anything about, which is a concern for it, but it is better to review who took the initiative to consider the possibility of data being, had the first report made, and called to the first international meeting on it in Iceland. It wasn't the highest. Minister of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir, it was the one standing here who did so, just so there's a chance. And it's also probably a review of how a part of the government's last election situation was contrary to the changes that the government in which I'm proud of being in had had to put in place so that Verne data sets in. And it's growing like mushrooms today, constantly new projects that are coming to it, and more and more data sources that will come here because of it. The last government also left a conversation with foreign investors about bringing a new cable, a communication cable. Where is that today? Perhaps the chairman of the legal committee can inform us below between what she dances about the shortness of time. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, or the Greeks of their woes, now. Perhaps she can help us understand what happened to that assignment. And with the permission to ask, I thereby drop the matter: what happened to the highest. Industrial Minister? She hasn't been heard since the council threw away the wrong natural pass. Madam President. The fact is, since the collapse of the bank with all the terrible consequences it brought upon Iceland, three governments have worked all with conviction and strength to build Iceland and it's just to be successful. Let us not forget that the foundation was laid by the government of Geir H. Haardes, who responded accurately, as shown by all tests, in the fast - approaching period of some days. Residents have used their last losses to shovel shit on. At that time, people decided on the exact way they had to go in order to start following the trail out of the crisis, which was the law of emergency. The two governments that then took over, the minority government, and later the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, followed in the same direction. If there is any doubt in this, they should read the last diagnosis of Arion's bank in a congregation that will be discussed later today, a national bill for 2013, and see what Arion and the diagnostic department have to say about this. This is precisely the way governments have worked very hard over the last five years to achieve Iceland. Of course, we know that it was no one's fault, not the Independence Party, except, of course, the forward movement team that has saved everything here in Iceland and lives in a magnificent leader, and that, most importantly, is with the most important legal committee president. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who will follow, will give a brilliant speech, assuring his own fine qualities, as well as the forward party. But it is important to believe that, of course, all governments are working hard to build up their own country, I don't talk about after the terrible tragedies that happened to us, and they all deserve to be commended, including this government, who is working entirely with a firm and strong desire to take the best possible opportunity. I'm not calling for any further big business. I think, so I'll direct my words to what I'm saying. paritaprevir Toward the end of the next year, Haraldur's Benediktsson, Harald, will all of us be busy trying to keep the lid on a boiling pot that is getting too hot. I don't think we'll see any kind of future years, e.g. to those buying homes, for one result is that we are already seeing the front, growing up, and proclaiming interest increases. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson spoke here inexorably about not being allowed to stop a project because it would stop. Wait, it's been a couple of days since what? A senator and a boy. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson claimed this and said that Silicor would be stopped. What has happened since then? Silicor's financing contract has been signed, a building contract has been signed with Silicor. Was it not the task that we were given from this platform to grow up and pull out of the country without immediate approval of the others and their proposal for energy workers? Experience has shown that this is wrong. A senator does not have to worry about his country's becoming a source of energy. I think the rules we live in will lead to our making the right decisions at the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u31	A respectable president. I prefer to come up here and ask what. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson and thank him for the talk that was a second strand to recall his own fine yet condemn in the same speech of others who wanted to declare their own fines, as someone put it; being half busy ironing their own self - image. I'd like to mention to the senator what he said at the end of his talk on the construction projects we're in and what we're stopping at. I've never been in the General Assembly's symposium, and I've demeaned the work of the last government. I worked in the field where I used to be very well with that government, and that's what I've said and referred to in this sermon. But if the government and its leaders want to thank themselves for the work and work being done today, they must also recognize their actions that will stop or even reduce projects during the terms of the present and future. I read in a good book that the fortresses had been taken from a waiting category to pay for a European application. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator knows best what book I'm talking about, and he can respond to it. He doesn't worry about the fact that we can't get on with that, i.e. can set it up and continue activation because we do not have an economic advantage at this time, because we are constantly using more electricity in our homes, with increased travel services, and in the businesses of our day - to - day living?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u32	Madam President. It's wrong. A senator has read this in a book he was using here. If he was referring to the dragon's age, they would become what lay ahead. A senator did not point to any agreement on the European Union. On the other hand, if he reads that chapter very carefully, he will see that the government was saved. However, the author may with some bitterness have felt that he would have liked to help with the development of the EU, but he did not become that wish. It is the wrong reading. Other than that, Madam President, I'm not pleased to come up here and describe my own discretion, but it is true in this situation, when we have a government that has lost little done but draw out the bowls of his anger over the former government, to recall it for this reason who laid the foundation of this. Then it's true that I'm going to underline it as a matter of course. A senator sometimes does but is rare, e.g. The leader of the government does, that I said before there were three if not four governments that had worked since collapse and all well, all worked hard but all made mistakes, including this, but all worked with earnest will. This does not change the basis for the work we're talking about here, the energy level and the project itself, in the time of the last government. The groundwork for the four major projects being going on was all laid off by other governments. There is no new project that I know that has come to the drawing table or to an ideal level, apart from one factory, a factory concept, which was actually transferred from Húsavík to the economists. A senator very recently and well paid the price of a small African power that has existed in the time of that government. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not saying that's a concern. I got carried away in the heat of the game, but I have an answer to the perplexing question. A senator who will see to it below. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u33	A respectable president. In many ways, we share our views on the industrial structure. This has been mentioned in the talk "Foreignly. " A senator in the language we are discussing, a large industry structure, and the preparation of infrastructure in the industrial ground at Bakka. He actually threw his answer at the end of the day that he had not answered the questions I asked him, and he was going to come up here again and finish it. Then I'd like to add that question directly and ask if he's worried that we haven't made any more water supply options -- I'm just saying what I'm doing -- like the lower part of Dair in a colony so that we can have trouble making more energy, not only to attract more industry, not to sell it at low prices, but to that we are, I believe, also agree that we have a good price for electricity and that we're doing it. That is why the preeminents now speak in a way that they do at their main meeting and point out that they will make good money in the future. We don't talk about it now, but I also have specific comments to the presidents of the United States, and their vision of it, we can talk about it later. Has a what? Don't worry about the big stop we've got today, and we're looking out for the construction of the hydropower workers, including in the lower part of Tubs? I believe that he may be in the memory of a section of his category fighting for the point of view that he can continue to be activated. Few I know anyone but what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson to get out of the knowledge with the reasons that have been given most, i.e. the so - called salmon fields, which are now our main threshold of getting them into a group of innovations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u34	Wait a minute. A senator apologized that I couldn't answer the question during the heat of the game. He asks me if I'm worried that the adjustment was not successful that came from most of it. The employment committee for the continuum transfunctioners and whether I think it could lead to some kind of uncomfortable stop in energy production. Not right now, I don't think so. Impulse inactivation, it is clear that it is a majority of people at the General Assembly. I think it's incomprehensible, and I've pointed out why people don't go to Burgundy 2. I don't understand, that activation is available, and even if it can't quite go to the extent that the spoken spokesmen presented at a meeting with the locals at the beginning of the last year, it is still very important. Hv. A senator referred to a good book, which makes my attitude very clear. I don't think so, and it hasn't changed about salmon sex, but I'm a little harder on it right now, after considering the matter better, that I'm behind two activations in the lower part of the Snow wound. I've said that, and I've also said it in this discussion that I have doubts about Urcratics. It is also evident there. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget, please. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and four other members of the Independence Party have also said that I share their concerns. Why, then, am I free from anxiety? Because I believe soon the project management would offer suggestions on 16 benefits or if there were more, at least 16. I'm of the opinion that in the contingency program it should generate energy. She was always thinking, I don't dare recall who suggested it, as a guide to what should be used for energy resources and what should not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u35	A respectable president. Let's talk about it. paritaprevir Snoops, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, are a little characteristic of the situation that has been in the council for years, as is the case with matters that do not belong at home, as is the case with the matter. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson answered those questions. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. This is quite remarkable, but it doesn't seem to be possible to intervene from the president because it seems to be so that no matter what part is planned, he is abused in any way by the government stand, unfortunately. I'm not going to review that word as a matter of course. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson had a point, so it would be a very strange thing to start a verbal speech and suggest improvements in answering the question. A senator. I respect the program parts set up on the convention program at the order of the General Assembly and therefore plan to put myself down materially in the talk I'm about to give in this matter. Here is a bill for a legal adjustment of law No. 41/2013, on the behalf of state funds, on the behalf of the Minister for Minister for Ministers, to finance the construction of timbers due to employment in the country Back in the Northern Parliament, with subsequent changes (finals). This bill is submitted by a majority of the employment committees, as presented here, and I comment on it. In the beginning, I'm going to say that the advance team is a great company, supporting all the work structure, anywhere in the country. I didn't come up with anything like that before. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson that I was against that structure, and I want it to be clear. I welcome all the work structure, no matter where it is in the country, but in particular I rejoice that it is built up and created working in the country, so that it is said and presented here. I make a comment to this bill, which, in my opinion, isn't working well enough to make it think. The members of Congress who have observed my work at the General Assembly know that I speak a great deal of legal action, have gone so far as to present six times at the six district hearings for the General Legal Office so that the legislation here will be beneficial, for judicial hearings, and especially for reducing judicial cases with improved legalization. In the beginning, I'm going to repeat what I went through in answer to what I did. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, that it is actually wrong that it is not a custom to specify a certain amount of money in legal requirements. In the budgets of each year, credits, refunds, and government responsibilities will be paid to 5. .......... It's easy to change, because it's 1st. and the speaker of the matter is sitting in a council hall, or... paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and I know well that he is all of a desire to improve the law. You can then cross these points and add them to the opinion given before the 2. ... witha change of motion. This also called attention to why. The legal committee that has held a meeting over this matter, with an enormous increase in this project, from 1,800 million to 3,200 million. This is an increase of 70% showing that such projects will be more difficult when starting, that they are calculated to the full. Too much of the so - called Greek way here is being introduced into the council to be able to meet costs and entirely outside the budget. Then there's a state fund that's stuck with the plan. And who are the state funds, the respectable president? It's taxpayers. I take my role as the chairman of a legal committee very seriously, and I have a legal obligation to make comments on such matters. That's the way it is, Mr. Honorable President. What was presented at a meeting of legal committees when the Road Department and the Ministry of Business called on them to answer why this project was chosen in 2012 - why, on the other hand, was that going? Then it was the highest. Director of industry and innovation at present. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Why was this project not carried out on all other tasks of this magnitude and nature, i.e. to carry out the project involving a tunnel, of course, only to be used under heavy transport, but still to bury, in the Ministry of State, and to have financial ministers on the loan side? I'll make it my suggestion. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who led the case, looked at this when the bill goes back to bed. The employment committee, to make the change, in making reforms of these laws, to be made in this way and to change the rules. I can totally agree, this is a schedule for the project to increase by 70%. I believe that there is a parapolitic will for the council that the state fund inside that money is in hand, and it will in some way be made certain that the money will not go out of a transport program, if it is discussed or through the council, it's all stuck here. Also, the frame has come up for discussion, and it is naturally trapped, and something has been left behind in it. It doesn't mean to be like a dog. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's occupies in the campaign campaign for 2009, to accept here and be a member of the crew at Bakka and in Helguvík, and then stop a framework plan when there is no energy. A person must be himself parties in that matter. If they are generally agreed to build jobs around the country, they must also agree that there is enough energy to be available. I pray for harmony in the matter of others. I suggest that this project be carried out in the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the basis that I covered earlier, on the basis of which the budget of the Road program was established, which was directly involved in this mission in no man's land, there is no responsibility because the Department of Employment is not to give in favor of granting financial rights or covering tunnels. This very normal requirement for all similar and homologous tasks to be carried out in the same manner in the law as in the implementation, also to the highest degree. The secretary of finance has a view of the project under his office, for of course this is an enormous increase, a 70% increase from the fact that the law was approved in 2012 until now, that this is a prerequisite for the completion of the contract at Backka so that jobs can be started there, that the state needs to bring in this amount. I'm finally going to review it when these laws were approved in 2012, which is included in a paper with the bill the financial cost assessment. It says, by permission of the President: As stated earlier, in the bill it is expected that the employment and innovation ministers will be authorized to negotiate with the road modeling for the construction of the trade area at Bakka and, on the other hand, at the Húsavö's port of the state's budget in the form of a stray loan. In this connection, it is considered a subject for the development and management of transport by the secretary of the state and the financial financial rights of the state. It is easy to see that the plan of the bill that a secretary other than the Minister of Economic and Economic Affairs grants loans from the state's funds is consistent with the President's section on the switch between recruitments. Then this arrangement raises questions as to how to conduct loans and loans for this purpose. According to Section 26. track No. 88/1997, of the government's interest, shall be consulted for financial loans. The nature of the matter, according to the loans, is in the annual budget, 5 / 15 ...g.,advised solely to lend loans for financial and economic ministers, not for other ministers. In addition, the Ministry considers the prospects of a controversial loan as a state's grant in terms of government accounts and financial laws. Also, the question arises: Do you want to know whether the fund of government funds for the road should go to the Vega project that is under the State Department of Internal Affairs or to the Ministry of Employment and Development, which will be responsible for the projects and the commitments that must be made for them? This was read from the cost assessment of the Ministry of finance since 2012. There's a clear explanation for the opinion of the Ministry of Economics in this matter. They were not taken into account in their comments at the time, and therefore I think it is time, since these laws need to be adjusted, that the less part of the council strengthens the more part of making needed legal adjustments to save what is being done by the last government in terms of the Bakka Law. I'm not criticizing the project, I'm following it, but we have to get this into solid shape and do this project like other projects we're creating and building up jobs on the land and we're very similar to this project. That's what I was going to say, and I have to say in this matter, only legal issues. As I said at the outset, I respect the members of the council and use them only to promote material and technological views, but I do not use my speaking time to answer the insurrections and shittings in my garden that were expressed in opposition to it. paritaprevir Acoustics, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, with another senator. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson knew well before making an answer. þm. Haraldur the son of Benedict that I had signed up for a talk. [[Up front.]] I pray and hope that he will come back to me after I speak my case, for that is the scene, a respectable president, according to Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u36	A respectable president. On a financial committee, we had an excellent tour from the Streets and the Ministry of Business, and it was interesting to hear how this case all came about. You can have a certain understanding of how this has developed. I wondered at the time when the law was accepted whether it was a mistake to post a certain amount of this project because there had really been no thorough investigation or an examination of what a tunnel would cost. We were completely explained that they were not even sure at that point that something would happen. The question to what? Therefore, a senator is this: Would it have been better for her not just to make a assessment of this walk but to make more money and more work for that work, yes, I don't know, perhaps 50 to 1,100 million people would have had to make a thorough assessment of the time, even though men had not been sure that the work would be done? Or should you have missed talking about a amount? In the same way, though, we may have an unpublished check. This is among the questions that have been raised because it was quite clear some years ago that Húsavík was on the scene of an earthquake, so no one should have been surprised. Of course, money has to be researched, it does not happen spontaneously, and it is not free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's daughter's spirit for answering. We know how this case came about, and it was soon, in a specific district of a certain senator I must not mention. But it is quite clear, and it is stated in the prehistory of the bill, that it has been working since 1980 to bring the energy - efficient industry into this area, and it is a real joy to have the project done here. It was observed by Vega that it had said very soon that and this amount may actually have been very irresponsible, if you can say that, at the time, because as we have seen, a 70% increase in the project is now missing. It was simply, I think, beginning to aim at the estimated 1.2 billion car traffic mile away, so I think it was just a speed bill somewhere in some Ministry at the time when this number was found out, to accept that definition. But it turns out that there was a need for research and also that the tunnel needs to be stronger than a normal tunnel, for heavy transport is to be done. This proves to us once again that there is a need for legalization, that I have spoken to it, so that the council is not always using the same bills as the same laws year after year, and therefore it becomes very possible to get into the national agreements that we have to deal with. But that is the law of the 1,800 million in pars. The bill and the explanation for Article 1. are here on one of the seven pages, so there was now enough written at the time about 1,800 million. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u38	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I have to admit, I'm not here to direct these comments to what is happening. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, I know she's got an excellent understanding of settlements. But it's incredibly tiresome, I think, if there's any implementation outside the southwest corner, there's talk of a ballot. If you are a member of the district convention in the country, you are always under the spell that you are somehow walking the best of the district regardless of whether it's wise or not. And for the sake of transportation, it's as if it's just a major matter to go on the road to the country for transport. I find this to be an incredibly tiresome discussion and often difficult one. I realize that this case is controversial because large amounts of money actually go into favors of one company, but the idea is, of course, that there will be more companies when the first one has set up its activities, and that these tunnels and ports and other things will be used in that industry area. I really hope this is going to work out well. I'm glad to hear that. A senator is actually a member of this matter, and he will support the situation, even though she may make comments to the work environment to some extent. So I'd like to reiterate that it's making good use of domestic energy, and I have a clear understanding of it, in an area where all the factors are basis for further growth. If we're going to try to reverse the trend somehow that everyone doesn't get sucked into the southwest corner, we have to take some action, and it's always hard to talk about it under some sort of ballot transfer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u39	A respectable president. I couldn't find a question in answer to the senator, so I've concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u40	V.E.G. President. Sadly, I missed the first part of my talk. A senator, who learned that there had been some opposition because of the problem. A senator would have used his chance to attack him. paritaprevir That's why Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, former secretary of finance. I noticed why. A senator asked: "Why was this saved to the Department of Employment, not to Internal Affairs and Vega? In many ways I agree with it and just say that at some committee hearings I was discussing the need for the Department of Employment to make a complete deal with the Ministry of State, which, in turn, is responsible for the road and all the work done, because it is not funded by the traditional transport budget. What I want to ask you is why. A member of the council is the reliant agreement, which was special in that it was made very early. It was a government declaration that if this was to happen, the State would have done it. And that, of course, was on the lookout for performance. But, hey. A senator ransacked and criticized this very hard, and I ask why. A member of Parliament: In April 2013, this law was adopted in the last days of the Council before elections 2013, but not 2012, as it were. A senator was talking about, is it not then the role of the current industrial minister, chief? Ministers of the Robertnhes Ragnheiður of the Elín's Árnadóttir, to make the contract and carry on with the project and negotiate with the Road Building and the State Ministry on the project? It has not been done, so criticism has not been made. A senator, a respectable president, looks first to the current industrial minister and I accept the criticism because of the highest modern level. A industrial minister did nothing about it until the last minute. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. Senator: Am I right? Does she not agree with me that the minister who succeeded in April 2013 should have continued with the project and made a contract after an incident with the State Department, such as the making of Vega? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u41	A respectable president. Right away. In response to other members of Parliament, it is good for them to listen to the entire talk so that they are not speaking out and south of the answer to the need to give. [[Up front.]] I've never discussed the need for this. I even went over the need to do this. But the estimate was not in progress, this exit drive of 70%, until now in spring. So it was always between this figure of up to 1,800 million, until it becomes clear that it is all too unscheduled, and it holds the last government's responsibility. I reviewed in my speech that it was a transverse agreement that this assignment would start. That's why I don't understand the excitement that runs here. A senator. I suggested that in my speech, and that would be why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller had heard that he would have been here in the councilroom while I was delivering her, that this assignment would be saved at the place where other funeral projects are, i.e. ... there'sa change proposal to the bill for 2. ... thatthe Department of Internal Affairs will be assigned to take care of the project and the Ministry of finance will be entrusted to the financial side of this project. That's all. There are too many adaptors in the event of a suggestion. paritaprevir Kristján Möller to the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs is going to make a deal with the highest power. Minister of state on this project. We're taking up the law right now, and I was making my suggestion that we were going to use the trip to get the project to the right place to blow off the law that truly took place during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u42	V.E.G. President. It was always planned for the 2013 Law and this dissociative agreement, but it was put under the Department of Employment to explain fully that the funds should not be the source of the standard transport programme, such as we, who bring this proposal to the paper rights today. Hv. The senator will discuss that now in the last record, this information is being published after further investigation and design. May I only draw attention to the fact that in 2013 the Ministry of Business granted Vega only 15 million to start research? Since these 15 million are not enough for such tests, roadmaking has been successful in terms of limited funds. She also speaks of it coming in at the last minute. Now I want to see it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir notices. At a meeting of the Committee, it was stated that the road model had sent data, new data on cost estimates to the Ministry of the Home Office in April 2014. Last year. It went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and was there. But at some point, I don't quite remember what the date was, but I can look it up, and then the Ministry of Presidency requested through an assistant at the highest. One of his helpers, the prime minister, according to this information. They were sent from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Ministry of Presidency more than a year ago, but nothing was done with them. Therefore, the information now presented in this matter of communication is essential because of the urgent and good work being done there is to begin. What does it say? A senator who likes to have a complete legal base and all the right things, that in the Presidency Department, this intelligence has been lying for a year and nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for this good answer, as most people know, the whale went away. A senator for transportation here for some time. It was observed that after an investigation by a respectable president, the senator needed money, but it had started to the wrong end. First the decision was made to do the job, and then the laws of the earth, the seismic activity, and the rest of the region, so the dog was buried, it was started on the wrong end. And as the politics now do, there are times when legal decisions are needed to make in order to show a certain strength in certain places, to show joy, but this is what is involved in this project. It was beginning at the wrong end. After the studies were completed and the law was completed for several years, it was found that 70% was missing. [[Up front.]] And that's what this government is winding off and that's what I went over in my speech. Whatever it is. A senator asked me, "What do I think of the government that certain knowledge was in the Ministry of Presidency? That's not relevant because of the Supreme Court. The prime minister does not treat this group. This memo was sent by the Road Type... [[Up front.]] Can I get a sound for you? paritaprevir Kristján Möller? This memo went from Vega to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which, of course, makes transportation, we know, but the road itself said it was at a meeting of financial committees that the project was carried out on no man's land. No one is responsible because they're saved in the wrong department. [[The president calls.]] They're being saved to the Department of Employment from the last government, and I'm suggesting that this be changed, more dignified president. This is not easy for former government ministers to swallow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u44	A respectable president. I'm not gonna talk about what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon or Greece, though we must all think of the Greek people during these critical times in their history and the huge problems they face. But I agree with what we learned here that we speak to one another and about one another with respect, even if we are members of the Senate. But I'm going to talk about the bill. I will not oppose the ongoing construction of Backka and rejoice that its projects have begun. But I can't sign this work, that there are additional 1,400 million of our public funds being given in this way. In fact, Sirka 200 million of this amount is the price added to the 1,800 million originally approved by the Allied Council, and on that basis we can thank the wonderful economic conditions we live in here in Iceland. But 1,2 billion, 1,200 million, are clean and full additions. So I'm the member of a professional law enforcement committee who doesn't support this bill. The legal bill of the greater part of the Committee is going to simply issue the amount expected of the project, and the council accepted in its own time. The General originally agreed to provide 1,800 million for the project. It is now estimated to be 3,200 million. Is there anything that ensures that the project will not be more costly and the account for them and what is added to it will not be reimbursed to our taxpayers? This work is not okay, not when it's being handled with public money and not the amount of money like this. The sum of the original amount approved by the Council for the project is 1.4 billion. Senators the future made comments to the practices involved when it first came into the council two years ago, just because the work was not being done and its preparation was not enough. I'm right about not setting myself up against the construction at Back, but I don't think this method is too good, too bad for me to support the bill. I don't want to sign when the original 1.8 billion-dollar programme goes up to 3.2 billion, the taxpayers are simply sent the account in this way and nobody is responsible for the increase, the difference from the amount originally approved at the General Assembly for building on Backka. Nothing is done to ensure that such mistakes do not recur. The funding for the work back then and nothing in the bill presented here indicated that we are going to learn from the experience. The price tag on Backcoat is simply taken away on the current bill and the state has the bill paid. The price could therefore increase even further, and the taxpayers sent the bill, perhaps 1 billion more, maybe 1.5, as we're talking about right now. This kind of work allows for transparency, political responsibility, and the public interest. We're supposed to do better. That's why I don't support this bill, but I hope that the construction of the Backcoat works as well as the success of the success of attracting more companies into the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It seemed like he was covering a lot of things, just like what happened. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir did earlier. Here we have an example of the lack of preparation, not to be taken deeper in the year, and the account was enormously high. The decision to go to the project is first taken, an approved amount is not taken, but it does not look at what that will mean. It's amazing to read a memo in question. When we recorded this, we were given a legal committee, and I guess they got a similar memo in their head. The job committee, where the case is covered and what was not really taken care of, and everyone agrees on what is going on, the local government, where people are a little point out to one another, that the work was not worked in harmony with what we want to see. Now it's time to find out where we are now. Hv. A senator mentioned, and I think we agree that the important thing is that this work is started and that it works well, it is important that the structure of the industry be there strong and more people have to come in. True, I would have liked to see these tunnels being also for the public; these are one of the most expensive roads we are going on now, and it's a little strange to see that we can't use it for the public in the country only for this investment. Hv. A senator, if I get it right, won't support the bill. I wondered, " How will he see to it if we are going to keep doing this? ' No one will change what is going on, but if it is, it will not change what has happened. A senator has some idea of what we can do better now, I think it would be good to have it up in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u46	A respectable president. I'm primarily criticizing my work habits and when they're being discussed. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator that the project is on its way, and already 1.8 billion have been approved. Now the number is just taken out on the current bill, but we know it's 3.4 billion. I miss in the current bill that there are some warnings that the amount is not rising any further, because then we can have exactly the same conversation in the next year that will be said - if I'm critical of this method of action, then it will be said: Yes, but now it's all started, of course we need to continue. Yeah, sure, we don't quit half finished jobs, we don't back up with Backka, and that's not what I'm suggesting. I'm trying to criticize this whole thing. Of course, I will not resist the bill, but I will not, and will most likely not vote with it, but I realize that this must go through and will most likely return riches in this particular case. But I'm primarily, and I stress to criticize these tactics, and I miss in the bill that the amount is simply taken out and there's no warning, and I don't feel like we're learning from the experience. When you're dealing with public money and money like that, I just don't think it's good enough. I'm both criticizing a former government and a present government, so it's documented as well as in my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u47	A respectable president. I'm only looking for guidance on this, because of what I'm doing. A senator says that he is criticizing both the present government and the former. It's a former government that makes this case, the preparations are there, and there's a lot more money that will leave the taxpayers unless we just drop out of this, both on this project and on the Vállah tunnel. It's a pretty strange thing, but I'm not gonna ask you why. I'm going to discuss this with other members of Congress. What can we do better now? I'm just asking what. A senator, for that is important. I couldn't agree more. It is important that the cost is not further increased than is expected by a senator. There was a great deal of information missing when the decision was made and we did not change it. You are referring to some letter that has gone to the Ministry in the last few months. It doesn't change the nature of the situation. We need to make that decision if we are to continue: How can we be very careful? In case of a moment. A senator has ideas about how to be more cautious than we are doing, so it is very important that we do so. Of course, this case is a complete mess. It is a perfect mess of the last government and even a few of them. Senators of various categories - I see that this is very sensitive at the time. Senator Brights the future for some reason, and then I'm not referring to what. A speaker. It has now been revealed at the moment. The budget that a bright future is not -- well, such a firm copy of the United States when it comes to it. But we'll talk about it later. But I wanted to pray. Because it is important to present it in our discussion, how we can be more cautious than we now do. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that you do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u48	A respectable president. I hear what you're saying. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson wants to divide the matter very accurately, that the former government has been blessed with evil in this and the present government is taking an enormous measure on this matter. I'd like to think that the future senators Bjarts criticized the work force at their time in this matter and how it entered the council, that there was not enough time to work, and the preparation was not at all enough. And that's what I'm suggesting here that I don't feel that the current bill at all guarantees that -- I really think it's a continuation of the work done in this case, that it's putting more money from the state of this project. There are no warnings that this amount will not be able to raise later. It's just taken out of the bill. It was 1.8 billion, as mentioned, the solution to a large part of the employment committee is simply to take the amount out and put an additional 1.4 billion in the job. It's the kind of work I'm trying to criticize and point back to the fact that the Council members of Birt's future pointed to it two years ago, and I'm pointing this out here and now that I feel that the bill is an example of a very bad practice, which I'm not able to support at all, and that's why I'm not a part of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u49	A respectable president. I cut it off earlier in answer to who. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór's Þórðarson god said that a financial committee revealed that a bright future is like a photocopy of the United States. Hv. A senator cannot be referring to anyone but the reason. A senator who now stands in the General's deliverer, the sole representative of the Bjarts'future on a budget committee, and I must be quick to ask, "What's the problem? " A senator? A bright future has turned up a commission party into budgets, always paying off its special committee party, and certainly working very well with both sides and representatives of the Conspiracies and the Left Greens, so they say, there has been really good cooperation with the wonderful representatives that these two classes are on the Committee. Also, the one standing here has been very good at all meetings and caring, that I think, that job is very well. So I must ask, What is the point? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u50	A respectable president. This is part of the President's conference board. It's about the President's conference board. If we're going to change this now, and that's what we decide, and we're going to take a conversation between us in the President's conference board, we've completely turned these people upside down. I'm totally ready to talk to what. A senator about what I said earlier, and I can do it exactly in a talk afterwards. But please, this team is about the President's conference board, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] And if we're going - Honorable President. [[Up front.]] It's grumped up here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u51	There's been talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u52	Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall will go forward and tell you what to do. A senator cannot answer for himself. In fact, all members of the Parliament can ask for the word. [[Up front.]] And it's quite ahead, I said clearly, that I'm going to take a discussion about this. Hv. paritaprevir Brynhildur's daughter, Pétursdóttir, as other members of the council requested, may do. Hv. Similarly, when I give a talk, a senator can respond to me. I'd like to encourage you. Senators to have a little respect for the work at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u53	The President reminds me of why. Congress officials say that a speaker has become a speaker each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u54	A respectable president. I'm just gonna come up here and carry some volleyball. Senators Birt's future. I wish they would do more often what we do in the United States, but it's hard for us to control them even if we want to. But I thought it was a problem. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson, quite unbelievably rude in a sermon earlier. When people can't be in the discussions in a material way, materially, without in the halls that are not even in conversation, I know where we have been in these discussions. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It was unbecoming, and I think the senator should see his own dignity in praying to the dignity of it. And then we will continue to discuss this very important matters, which were used by the Anarchy and the Independence Party, when it passed through during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u55	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss the President's conference board. I've declared my concerns over the past few weeks about how the President's conference board has become at the council. There are anti-consumers, who abuse one part of the program after another, who discuss related matters with members of the opposite body. Since they are talking about the fact that other members of Congress are actually talking about or asking other members of Congress, it is permitted by the Parliament without the members of that body running to the President's conference board and flying away. I think they are. Senators who are now in the conference room, when it's almost half past six, should have listened to an answer. paritaprevir Acquiess Össur's Skarphéðinsson at what? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who covered me. Still, I was in a talk later. A respectable president. It's totally lost control of the council and what to discuss with the program, unfortunately. I'm worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u56	A respectable president. I've been here since 2003, and I've been there before as a deputy member of the council, and very often a man's words are referred to in a talk, and you have the opportunity to come back and discuss it. A respectable president. I've made it clear, though I admit I'm going to the edge of this team, right to the edge, that what I pointed at about the cove. I'm going to be on the talk later, and I'm on the rosary. Here's three of them. Senators Brights the future, and they can all come up against me, they can go to the rosary. So it's not like I've been discussing why. Senators who are absent, that is a long road away. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to follow the norms of Congress, to put themselves on the rosary, or to respond when I go to the talk afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u57	A respectable president. I am quite aware that this point on the President's conference board is used for various purposes. But I don't quite understand, if what. paritaprevir Is it reasonable that, though, Þórðarson, in his speech on this matter, if he doesn't even turn to a talk, I should speak back to him and open up some words that he once did not answer, unless he intends to repeat his words about this photocopy that he says here? [[To the point: Of course.]] [[The point is, of course.]] I don't understand anything about this. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u58	Madam President. It's been an interesting discussion today about a business building thing on Backka, and that's safe to say. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask is absent, he is in the Council of Northern Congress, so he is not able to appear here and answer or participate in this discussion. The location of the project can be debated, people may have opinions about it, but this government has had the opportunity to change it for two years but has chosen not to do it for some reason. Of course, it is her decision, but we can have some opinions about whether or not they should have been saved there. It was always clear that this was a new investment from the State at the time. Although the cost of this was criticized, that does not mean that the local authorities acted on the issues of the Sports Institute and the Road program, so to speak. It is also worth calling attention to the fact that it is mentioned in a memo entitled From the Vega type to a financial committee, and I would like to quote, by permission of the president, which says: It has to be stressed that the road model knew from the beginning that this estimate of cost was dependent on great uncertainty and was listed in the Agency's topic on bill to song No. 41/2013, of the construction of Backbox, dated March 11, 2013. This should have been evident both at the Council and at the Ministry responsible for the bill. The review says: Then it should be noted that the above cost scheme, 1.8 billion, is based on the prototype design of workers, based on available research and that funding for projects up to the end, even though costs would be more than expected in the current schedule. In view of what happened. A senator who was before me in the talk chair said that it might have been good to have read it already. Because of what? A senator and the chairman of the legal committee agreed that it would be customary for a certain maximum amount to be placed in such prime news then, if that is not correct. But it is true that loans are taken into the budget. There wasn't listed in this particular bill that was approved, which I believe, in fact, was a mistake. If we'd had it in the 5th floor. we'd be over it a year from now. Then we wouldn't be arguing about it and we wouldn't have to fix the bill as it's being done here. Surely, then, it would have been better to do so in that way. These are plans, and there's always better to do, I think we all want to do it. At the time of this bill, it was a turning point and it became clear that certain statements had to be made in order to attract parties to building up in this area. It may have been better prepared, but time may also have meaning, but, of course, it's a lot of money. And there was always the possibility that it would be greater because it is, of course, far from the main transportation. Clearly, then, more is needed than has been done in general. At that time, special arrangements were made for each major industry and often went further, perhaps for decades. I'm glad that this project is finally on its feet, and I think we have to think about it, despite the fact that we have to take the funding every time in the work we're dealing with - and one of the things we've been discussing on a budget is to improve planning. We all agree that we want to try. But it is just as true with what the government was doing during the days when she decided to put money outside of a transport program, outside the usual procedure, in the work she chose. That's not a good practice either. It doesn't excuse that something else is bad or good, but we have to be careful, we all have to do it, not just the present government or the former, but all of us here at the council. So I think that in general people should go slow and talk gently in the whole business we're dealing with here and think about what we're doing at the same time. Of course, there are many things that make this project so much more expensive than the Road Building and Navigator Organization had anticipated. As has been attributed here, the cost target is known at the Vega type, i.e. The traditional tunnel but not seismic, as it later turns out, has to be, and they have to endure far more traffic than any other tunnel in this country. I live in a rural society with four or so tunneles and even in an earthquake zone. This was not taken into account at a time when the tunnel was designed and performed. But we remember the Dalvik earthquake, and this is an area moving. This was not done in connection with the tunnel in the north, and that may have been what the road was designed to do. That's the biggest cost in this case. In addition, the area had to be reassigned, as the Passage says, had to be enlarged and the road had to be moved to sea. Thus, the protection has become much more expensive. In fact, the roads believed that the floor in the tunnel was sufficiently fortified when it came to transportation, but it did not prove to be so. With experience from the soil of the past few years, it is calculated that a much higher anticipated cost has been done so far, and I think it would be wise to do so. There has been an increase in land soil costs in general. There are a number of factors that have contributed to the high cost of the project. If this assignment had been placed on budget every year, as it is being done, we would not have to discuss this additional detail. I ask people to keep it in mind that these can be watched from many sides. I'm saying that it doesn't make any difference that we're supposed to be careful with all the projects we do, there are no small money here. Away from this project, it takes a lot of money to have lived in a large country, whether it is such a project or something else. As a community, we have a lot of expense, but I think that's something we most want to do, i.e. that the settlements of these more scattered settlements may remain. In this discussion, it is worth reviewing that as far as the Netherlands are concerned, the average age and the number of people in many parts of the region is estimated to be a cold area, although some areas are often separated in large areas. A report from Based on the Agency stated that this structure is important. It is important that we have reached the initially planned major building into the plant, and then, of course, we have to look at the derivatives. It is expected that this will not be the only company, but that it will be an opportunity for SMEs to make good use of the investments they are about to make. Of course, we should not forget that countries and rural communities will benefit from the activities involved in this context, both during the period of building and later in the form of income taxation, resection, and indirect taxes from the activity that will be there. There's no discount on that. We can always learn and do better, but for the fact that this project is a complete exception to the decision-making process, I still remind you of the decision made here at the dawn. There was no way to avoid everything called a transport program or the people involved in transportation, construction, road construction, or something like that. It is better, then, to speak with caution. I will, of course, support this project, and it has nothing to do with the fact that it is in my district, no more than that I have supported other matters in other ideals. I agree with what's been going on here. The Gjarnan is spoken of as fighting between the capital area and the region, and I believe it was repeated by special members of the capital area. I haven't talked about a ballpark when it comes to swimming or anything else. I give myself a reputation that the construction of the country is primarily an ideal pool. It's not an ideal pot to make a Norwegian tunnel. It is not an ideal pot to make Vella-hallholes or other projects to be carried out in the country area, that is not a ballot. It's an attempt to preserve the country. I think there's something we're supposed to do together because I don't know where the capital area would be without the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u59	A respectable president. I appreciate this speech. I come from a prime example where there are no tunnels and where there are no earthquakes, because the senator's speech showed just how many tunnels were in her district. These are no ordinary tunnels. It's a tunnel because of the construction of jobs. Costs have been found to cover, among other things, because they need to be developed as a result of heavy transport. It is now known that, around Húsavík, an earthquake risk has been known for many years, so there was no surprise in this price assessment at the time, so to speak. But I would like to ask the senator, " Is it normal for a government business to make the first decision on projects and projects and then do research? ' Is this the right order to be carried out as state responsibility? I'd also like to ask the senator about the report with the bill that became the law. It comes in the finance Department's expense evaluation, with the permission of a president: In this regard, information is raised as the construction and management of transport are under the construction of the Minister of Minister of the Interior and the financial expenses of the state are on the responsibility of the secretary of the budget. Why, then, was this assignment under the then professional secretary? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon? Is this because it was in his district, or why would a minister need his fingers in his assignment instead of putting it in the path that all the tunnels have visited? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u60	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. As I told you earlier, it is not my job to answer for other senators why things were saved somewhere else. I have not taken a stand to see whether it is right or wrong that it is done and at ease. A senator to have a word with the man she mentioned earlier. Hv. A senator suggests that if the project had not been saved under the Department of Employment and its minister at the time, I understand. A senator like that would never have existed. I can't tell you if it's true. I agree that we can always do better, whether it's planned or not, and of course we should try to do the best research before we go on each project. This is not exactly so that no research has taken place. However, it was noted earlier that it, and already natural, was allowed to do better in providing research, and it has not done anything to the current government. It is also noteworthy that a year ago this is known, and we are learning about it now. I don't believe anything but what. A senator would agree with me on the point of wanting to have a good plan, talking about wanting things on the table. Hv. A senator must have agreed that we could have handled this much sooner and more quickly, even though that would have not changed anything. We face this object and face it. Of course, we should start to investigate as much as possible, but at times the Timekeeper may be so that we need to make some statements. It's about a crown number, which I knew was a mistake to put in the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u61	A respectable president. I was first informed about this about three weeks ago because no one wants to do the job. There is no responsibility for the project. It's under the Department of Employment today, whether the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the Ministry of Economics has a review of what's going on. That is why I am criticizing and suggesting, as the senator knows, that this project will be carried out like any other tunnel, so that the highest. The secretary of finance has a view of the financial resources of the state and the highest. The Minister of the INS has an overview of current activities and can organise with the Vega project available. It was evident from Vega that this irresponsible action has been interrupted and decomposed. I'm here to suggest these improvements. Hv. A senator went over that it was impossible to speak of a ballot and such things, and I don't really understand why we're talking about it here. I'd like to ask the senator, who is now getting excited about Backka and this assignment to start, in the North-eastern districts, a square tunnel: Does not the senator, along with his class, have the same structure in Helguvík as there is an urgent need for some kind of heavy industry, a natural geologic phenomenon? [[Invested in Helguvík.]] Are we not in a position to discuss the accompanying box? It does not mean to talk about building a major industry without talking about the frame, for we are already faced with a lack of energy. Is it not a little twin to celebrate large industrial structures in the north while energy is not available to go to other ideals that do not even have tunnels? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u62	Mr. President. It's clear to me, so I'm starting with the senator, that the Department of Employment is responsible for this project. V.E.G. The minister of the trade of Ragnheiður Árnadóttir Arnadottir is responsible for this case. It is totally her and the government to choose how they intend to do it. I told him earlier, if the Minister and the government wanted to move the project to the Minister of the Interior, or in some way under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as I heard it. A senator is talking about, because the perspective would be greater if the case was with the Minister of the Interior than if it was for a professional minister - it's entirely the current government. [[Up front.]] You said "what." A senator, by permission of a president, said so. There is a senator who is not responsible for the case at the Department of Employment. It's not. I'm sure the Department of Employment is responsible for this, that's perfectly clear. It was never meant to be in the transport program, so they say, it wasn't supposed to be part of it, it was a special project. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must review the talks held at the time when this case went through here so that she will not forget it. For other projects, although they do not have tunnels, we have been ready to discuss a frame plan. It's not about that, we only want to follow the procedure under it. Of course, when they are finished, we take a stand for each matter, whether it is the activation, the waiting, or the waiting, or the rest, but only after it is completed. That's what it's all about, and our attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u63	The President wants less than that. Councilmen are required when they refer to other senators to give them their full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his business. The one living in Kópavogur, however, came to this matter as industrial minister during the last term and in preparation for what was later proposed by the current crisis. paritaprevir After changing our plans, J. Sigfússon Steingrímur, J. So it's not a doozy. It's not a doozy. This whole country has a marvelous purpose and so have we seen it all the time. I have to put it, too, Mr. Honorable President, that I'm a little surprised at the discussion here, especially on the part of the party. Vigdís the daughter of Hauksdóttir and Guðlaugur, the Þór of Þórðarson. Hv. paritaprevir The Gudgle of Þór Þórðarson supported this whole affair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u65	I don't know what it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u66	He supported the matter, did not say one additional word during discussions about it. I can't find anything on that. He would have given them that warning. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the present prime minister, came up here especially and welcomed this, said that it was good for a man to realize that it was important for the Polish to have a handsome job structure. Therefore, I must say exactly as it is, a respectable president, this rotation that is taking place here and now, and the opposition of these senators to this matter, or the prowess against it, surprises me. Like what? A senator made certain that this area's speciality is complete. There's no electrical lines in there. There's no roading there. There are no infrastructure. In an effort to sell it to people after the collapse of the economy, which had to come here with a huge investment into an area where no infrastructure was available, some kind of official confirmation that when projects set out there would follow through. [[The president calls.]] That was the purpose of this assignment. That is why this matter is unique. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u67	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's exactly what I was talking about back there. I believe that members of the council who accepted this at the time were trusting the assessment of the Road Building and trusting the Sports Institute's assessment of the harbor, etc. Of course, that is what lies ahead. Senators and Ministers trust a professional assessment of each assignment. As I came in earlier and quoted, the last review of Vega showed that this cost plan was just original. If you look at the word in view of available research and have to make sure that you complete it all to the end, even if the cost is greater than shown in the current schedule, it would have told me that this could be raised and would be more likely to rise than vice versa. The rest is another matter, there's way too much money under there. I can totally agree with the criticism that this situation had to be better prepared. It doesn't change that this was done, whether it means that people think they've started too early or what, and it's taken a really long time. The process of carrying out back has taken a long time and has taken a variety of ideas into what we are facing today. Like what? A senator entered them was not easy to get something going here after the collapse. It was the timing. We had to do this then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u68	A respectable president. Only in terms of times because people have claimed that they had been wronged and have been called on here by members of the council, who supported the case in their own time. I have to say, I don't quite understand that discussion. The reason we were doing this on the spring of 2013 was because we were calling for an investment in our country to come. Looking to areas outside the capital area, we looked north to a land where it was important for us to build up and to build up. What to sell to investors when the area has no infrastructure, no roads, no electricity, no lines, nothing? What, then, are we going to tell people? Would we rather do what was done in Helgavík, telling the community just to get started, to start investments, and then to hope that men would come and make money? Is that better? How were people to trust that these structures would be there? That's why I don't fully understand this discussion. It was our estimate that in this situation it was relevant to show those who wanted to come and invest that when they left, the state would be ready to enter the infrastructure. It would start only when the investment was in port to avoid the same thing as landing the harbor south with the water. That was a responsible attitude. I agree that putting a number into a bill is a little strange. I regret that I did not criticize that aspect of the matter because it is unusual. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u69	Mr. President. As I said before, I think it was just a mistake to put the number into the bill, and I just think it's usually. This is not because we have a general check on a project because it is also not good or wise to make a decision in that way. We make decisions every year. Whether or not assigned to tasks less than 5. ..g., in sources at 6. or in direct financial teams, it is wise to label them in budgetary terms and to plan, as is done in transport programmes, instead of earmarking each bill, especially in major projects. In this discussion, I have asked myself, " Is this the way I did it? ' This time and many years before were planned, so they wanted things to be much bigger and more extensive than landing. [[Take it up in another part of the country.]] In view of the criticism presented by this methodology, I ask myself, " Would those who now sit in more material have done this in some other way? ' It will be interesting to hear from the members of the councils who will speak here how they would have done this differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u70	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate. A senator and vice president of the United States, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, earlier when she urged senators to be word - wise. I'm asking her to take a look at herself. In matters related to this, such as a frame plan, many big words have been passed, and others have been called the Taliban from the World Assembly's symposium along with other lipphrases. [[Up front.]] Then the same senator, huh? A member of the Union, who is not involved, walks out of the hall, laughs in the hall, and has a good time at it. This may tell us that we should examine ourselves and keep our words in mind in the future. The building of energy - consuming industrial activity is an enormously important task. The project on Backtack is about building up operations throughout the scattered settlements, a process that can provide support for a growing community, a growing industry, and an increasing wealth in society. Húsavík is certainly a place where people have long waited for such an opportunity, where workforce and the need for labor in the fishing field are somewhat like Húsavík, as many other locations in the country have suffered. This should further motivate us to action in that area. We're supposed to keep that perspective very close when we think of further work structure and look to the country rather than the urban population in the southwestern corner when we are really interested in turning back from the development of the developed world in the past few years that I have full faith that we can. I'm celebrating this assignment at Húsavík so that there's no doubt in the mix. It is, of course, accompanied by infrastructure. It's inevitable. Where energy - efficient industry needs to be built up, powerful infrastructure is needed. We have, for example, more. We can illustrate this in Eastern Europe, where intensive and energy - rich industry has been built in a disaster crisis. We have built a powerful fishing road in several places. What is different about the project in Húsavík and construction in most other places is that the State has not previously made as large a contribution to building wood as it is done there. Normally, this is calculated to be the work being done under the structure. Not in this case. The decision was made that the government would make special loans from both subsidies and a special contribution from the port to the job area. This has proved to be far more expensive than planning. It's bad, and you can't say that in the future we're not supposed to have any numbers on paper about such projects, but we're just supposed to have as an open check. This further tells us that it is important that we try to prepare in such a situation so that we know exactly what we will do so that there will be no accounts on very high levels, such as in this case, on another billion, in our back. There will be no turning back; it has already been made a lot of money, and we must take responsibility in this. This is closely linked to the discussion we have had here in a frame plan. As mentioned in the preceding talk, there is an unbreakable link between discussing a frame plan, the activation of electricity production, and the building of powerful structures. I have to say, there's a lot of skin in this discussion when it comes to this, and he's actually very annoying. How annoying it is that we cannot have a perplexing discussion of these things and maintain our own views! This superintendent project has been canceled, which is the origin of the last government, in the time of the last government, the government of the left green and the United States. That's good and good. These same groups, especially the left green, have strongly opposed construction in energy - intensive industry, especially in the pailing, and have found everything to be a snare. There is a twin in resisting the structure of aluminium organisms, although I do not necessarily recommend them more than the word, and be prepared to bless their silica plant and further their future expansion and support of that project, to speak down an inscription when the fact is that a silica plant pollutes eight times more perton than an aluminum. Silicon products are far from environmentally friendly, like the panoramic population after the completion of the production process. It is the very use of the aluminium that should make it possible for those responsible for green policy, environmental policy, to celebrate aluminium creation by renewable energy sources. Green environmental impacts from aluminium have resulted in complete superiority over all other productions in energy - rich industry. 80% of the aluminium produced in the world within the last 120 years has been recycled. It costs less than 5% of the energy to produce aluminium to recycle it. Its green tracks have to do with its light intensity and its practicality for transport are greatly reduced incineration of fossil fuels. Thus, the green footprint of this metal is very high and should actually be a source of joy to anyone teaching himself in green policy and green thinking and environmental protection. Then the same categories come and talk them down and agree completely that a plant is much better able, though it spends eight times more each to produce a ton. So it's about politics? Is this about deception? What's it all about, Mr. Honorable President? Is this about doing or is this uninformed discussion? [[Up front.]] Don't people know any better? I don't know, I'm not gonna answer that, but I'm just calling out that we're having a bit of business and collective discussion when we're considering it. I began to say, when I discussed this recently from the General's symposium, would the location of the project have had something to do with this? Admittedly, this has been confirmed in debates. Of course, members of Congress had something to do with this. Did it make sense to be in the Northeast standard where the Minister, former president of the Left Green, responsible for the case and coverage of the government has settled? Of course, it's not unnatural. However, we are primarily talking about cold areas in a professional way; we are primarily talking about the need to build up in this area, such as so many others in the country. Then we come to the rest of our lives, which we've been through here at the council, unusually cruelly, i.e. A frame plan. It is similar to the evidence between setting an acceptable way of selecting the next activation option and structure elsewhere in the country that is just as necessary, building up in the Southern economy, in the Southnes where unemployment has been the most important thing in the country, where the longer time has been waiting to better use the constructions and projects in the past, that there are some revenues to be obtained, of the suspects that must be a very good location for the further energy industry, where all the infrastructure is available, road construction, port construction, an area prepared for the industry instead of breaking new territory. Then all of a sudden, a respectable president, it's a completely different sound in a eraser, and it's out of the question and against all kinds of unconvinced claims. It's said that there's going against the spirit of law on a frame plan, there's been a violation of the law. It is repeatedly claimed that the law is being violated, although it is only right to be viewed as part of the priming options below. It is called for an agreement at the council on the end of the council and for us to get along on these issues. This has been one of the major issues. But what is the agreement? This is to include those who want to ensure that in the coming years of energy-rich industry can continue to develop and want access to at least an activation option in the lower part of a colony's ulcer. Those who want to stop it should simply be in charge. There is no compromise, though the controversial factors have been taken out, since there could certainly be some logic to the interpretation of the law. I came into it when I discussed a frame plan at its time in terms of Hagwater activation and possible rock wave activation, though less. We have invited these activation options to be set aside. We have offered, but this is not enough, but it must be done all the way, although this may result in one of the most exciting projects in energy-rich industry, which has even become a reality, a factory that produces export costs of between two and two and a half macronts a year, 55 billion years from year to year, uses only the internal raw materials from Icelandic worlds and Icelandic cold metal factoriess, is pollution free of pollution and does not have to go on environmental assessment because of that, creating 450 jobs, and goes into areas that are already disturbed. Men cannot look through their fingers with it, despite the fact that local government officials and people in this area are calling for this to work. This is what union leaders are calling. No, it should not be left behind. The same principle applies to Helvavik, in the absence of any priming option, is the conclusion that we cannot go to the existing structure in Helga. It's this double - collaring thing that I don't really like. [[Up front.]] Then, in the Sermon on the Mount, you say very solemnly that nature should enjoy the doubt. These same people are building the energy - consuming industry in Backcoats through geothermal activation in the Meysterians. Is that how you feel? Water - supply workers have total sense of regret, and of these, they are very low on aquifers. It would be a very low environmental impact in the lower part of the blue, the smallest of which could be the product of activation in the country. Is it possible to compare this with a major industry based on geothermal activation in the Meysterians and even the Bear's song, a respectable president, that nature should enjoy the doubt? [[Foreground on: No.]] So, what interests are under here? Is this all act? Is this a matter of putting on stage plays and conflicts and speaking to certain groups and such things? It's not about steadfastness, it's not about being consistent. That's what I don't like. Of course, if this situation has a negative impact on these interesting projects that people in those areas are waiting for, as I was witnessing to, south of the country, these groups are sitting with black people. It is their job and no one else that such work cannot be carried out. A respectable president. I'm convinced that if there was any meaning, there would be a seizure. The vice president of the United States, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, spoke earlier, saying that what they said should be done successfully in the public assembly, and if we were to adopt it and have a critical discussion where some harmony was in what we said and watched it in this way, we would be better off here, and then the honour of the Council would not be with the signs that we actually saw.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very good speech, Gunnarsson's son Jón reviewed the hypocrisy that has appeared here after the last election by former government groups, governments who actually served in the shelter of demands. All parts of the country call for a job structure, and it's likely, a respectable president, that smokejanes is now the most needed. It set out on a similar assignment and is on the road to Back. So I am as surprised as asking why the exact Bakki was selected. The Senator did just fine. The project, however, was not to be started by then president of the Left Green, a party that speaks extensively and has always done and has made a very heavy statement here in the discussion of the box. This, of course, is a matter of opinion. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson why he believes that this project has already been hosted in the Ministry of Employment. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon, therefore, was a professional minister in a paper with the bill that turned into the law we are now changing from the Ministry of finance, by permission of the president: In this regard, information is raised as the construction and management of transport are under the construction of the Minister of Minister of the Interior and the financial expenses of the state are on the responsibility of the secretary of the budget. Here the will is made clear where to carry out the assignment, but it was not being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u72	A respectable president. I don't think that according to the general rules of the administration, they were not followed in this case. What Is the Cause? I can't answer the question. I believe that what hangs among them is that it was the ideal thing of the minister of that people. Then you say, " Is there anything unnatural? ' Yes, we're supposed to follow some procedure in the administration, but there's a lot of situations where we've gone unconventional. We can look at ourselves at the council as we refer to cases that are at odds with where to go, in line with a strategy referred to as a professional committee in the winter, and many were at odds with where the matter is at the highest level. Environment Minister. Similarly, during the last term, a government then chose to point the matter to what. The Environment Committee, though, was still at that time in the field of the Employment Department. That's it. However, we were doing this because we have a clear view of the current administrative body that this case belongs to the Department of Employment, which led to the application of the work. There is, of course, something that will change into the government home, i.e. ... toreport this thing again, because we don't think it belongs at the Environment Ministry. We believe this belongs at the Department of Employment, where it's always been. That's our opinion, and we held it up. That is why it was done in this way. We have plenty of examples of such things. However, the chances are that if this case had been saved in another Ministry, the knowledge of the work being done here would have become more evident, not because of today's large account, but because of more knowledge to make accurate calculations and assessments of what would really be the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u73	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the review he made here on the basis of a budget between the governments and the members of the council. I had forgotten that a former government had sent the box to the Environment Committee at its time, although the case was heard under the Department of Employment. It's great to review this here and now because there's not a few hours of the council discussing it during this term period in which the frame is to be named. I don't think it's quite like this, Mr. Honorable President, because this is where we're talking about a lot of financial commitment to state funds. When the project was started, it was estimated that 1,800 million would be paid, and this would be done under the Department of Employment. It was not enough that the Ministry of Economics at the time had made comments on this and mentioned that the system should be controlled, such as any other type of funeral, to the Ministry of State and the Ministry of State, but that this was not a surmounting loan, such as the current employment minister, why. paritaprevir As a result, J. Sigfússon's rock mask, brought in a book, and on the bill, it would be a state strength and should be taken into the government account as such. There are a lot of weird things about this project. A respectable president. I've got to tell you in the end, this fine thing. At the end of the election season, a senator became a minister of finance, and the opportunity was not new to set this matter in the right place in the management system. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson: Isn't it just our work, the national groups now, to correct this law because we all want a powerful job structure around the country? So, since we're recording these laws now, don't we have to go to the improvements that need to be made?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u74	A respectable president. It's very bad when plans fail. If we can make sure that the knots are fixed better, I think I'm probably doing it. I don't know if it's possible that this mistake occurred because these classes and especially the left greens that then thought of the torch were beyond the reach of such projects. A similar situation in the future may be more certain to realize that others are better equipped to resolve such matters than he does. At any rate, the development since 1960, when energy - efficient industry first entered the country, has been very successful. I remember and remember how Bjarni Benediktsson, who was then president of the Independence Party, wrote about this in a talk in his own time when he said it so that he had become a major industry in the language and was different in what many would say about that word, and others would rejoice over it. Then began the struggles that had a tremendous impact on the nation's standard of living and that brought strength to the community along with other traditional sectors, such as the seafaring road, and they were really riding on the evidence that this nation has strengthened its foundation. The fight has been fought, and it is still on. It is virtually the same forces that are still in this struggle. The twinder in the case is that this case is introduced here by the initiative of the left green and the United States, who now oppose us against the ability to perform similar tasks in the second quarter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a wonderful talk on this important matter. True, it is surprising that he starts discussing a frame plan, but this may be why no one else has wanted to discuss that matter at the time. A senator for a long time, and the matter is not on the program here at the council, and changes in plans or attempts at any time. The senator and his partner to make adjustments are not likely to arrive on the program. The fact is, there are no other political groups that have prevented the development of industrial activation and structure. The last government had a great deal of leadership in this regard, and many projects have been successful and successful in helping others. The only one who has saved the development of this recent development is the head of the employment board and his members of the Committee that have prevented this proposal for Involvement from being canceled, which came from the project and thus continued in the construction of the country for months. Another factor to consider is the use of a sermon. This statement is made by a senator about the global impact of reinvigoration here in a renewed way for an aluminum plant, a good thing for the whole world. It's what it is. A senator really is the only country in the 200 countries that can produce renewable energy? Do people really think that the option is just pure energy in Iceland or dirty energy abroad? The Senator's information is produced with renewable energy in other countries as well, in all the continents of the world, I think, and dozens of countries. Large companies and leading companies, such as Alcoa, are, of course, choosing alternatives to more renewable energy, whether in Iceland or elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] So this resolution of good Iceland and the evil world around us doesn't hold any conclusions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u76	A respectable president. Come on, the spade and the twin skin. It is claimed that the last government has given many of the energy - carrying projects in the industry. In fact, this is the only assignment that has taken place now. It is good to review the stability of the treaty in this context, what was promised there, and what was betrayed, activation projects, activities in energy - efficient industry, it was primarily about that. But what were the benefits? They were primarily involved in the work of local environmental ministers, the Son Svandís Svavarsdóttir, who prevented such building sites from taking place, which was later condemned in the Supreme Court of Misuse of power. This is mainly what has delayed that these projects can continue, because according to the results of frame 2 frame frame design, it was calculated by the task management that the activations Holta activation and Imaging would be started in 2015 and 2016, i.e. In the year and next year, they would have been built up by the highest level of office records. A former minister would not have happened in a known way. Hv. paritaprevir Hjörvar has mistakenly misunderstood me if he was referring to the fact that Iceland was the only country that would have been renewable energy. No, it's not like that at all, but Iceland is one of the few countries that have so many opportunities for renewable energy sources that actually testify. There are few examples, and most likely none in Europe. It is enough to quote Görans Persson's words at the main meeting of the Society of Business the other day, where he carefully reviewed this feature, and the British former Energy Minister did at another meeting some other time later. No, what I meant earlier was that those who really teach themselves in green policy should be glad that aluminium was produced by renewable energy sources anywhere in the world, but not by coal or other sources, because the crew has a very green track. Of course, it can be done by double - color practices and trying to mislead people in these facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u77	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may try to give talks at Valhalla that he and his team have a job structure but that we equals against it. It's not like that. The ever - growing movement around the world has had the lead in job development, industrial development, the activation program for decades. [[Up front.]] The simplest point is that I was in the management of national activation when we agreed in the year 2000 to engage in Breckle activation and under the Foreign Class and Independence Party for eight years there did not move any created thing; the shovel was still in the hole after the first pair of shovels. And it was the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir that finally had the power and power to make that activation a reality. That's just the facts. The other was interesting to me at the time. A senator might want to learn a little about this from him. I only heard him talk about the geothermals as if they were less predictable than the hydropowers, that we knew less about them. I think that's an interesting point of view, because sometimes I've been discussing the geologists a little bit as if they were just great and awesome. But we have quite a difficult experience, such as the one at the time of the Cruces. We see the geocarbon tank in Hellishe activation, well, it's going pretty fast. I wondered, " Does the Senator feel that we need to improve our experience in this and try to improve the knowledge we have gained in this field in order to make better use of the development of future years? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u78	A respectable president. Yeah, yeah. A senator served as a member of the Country Implementer for some time and shared in the work there, and this is a former incident. A senator, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, even today, if I recall correctly. I'm not sure that there's a concordat, because it's supporting all projects there, considering what I've heard from her before. Yeah, there's a lot of difference between the earth and the water. Water supply is totally predictable, and that's why it is very important to continue in that area, which is where the last government stopped things. Of course, it is a huge plot of history, and nothing else when efforts are made to promote by the United States House senator that the Controversy and its predecessors have some huge steps in this and some lead in Iceland and in that structure. They have a time in political history because they have been participants in this and have done so well for years, but that is not the case today. I doubt that group, the Conspiracy, and, in part, left green, they know where they want to go. Or was it not the same group that arranged for the search and processing of oil in the Dragon area and then enter the Council during the winter, carrying all of this and wanting to blow off all of this with the related damage to society? What does that group want? I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, I'm not sure they know for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u79	A respectable president. Now all you can do is feel interested in listening to the exchange of words. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and w. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. It was informed that the only major industrial groups in Iceland are the left green and the Convergence. Here was the criticism that an independent party and a forwarding party cannot do anything at the time of a heavy industry. The only groups that have done something about triggering the major industry are the United States and the Left Green, and no more word about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u80	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u81	Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir calls out here in ◯ Hear, listen to my words. I think it's actually quite compatible with what's happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said about the twin. I was in the city of Reykjavík, and who took an energy company from Reykjavík and the major industry? It was left green and the Conspiracy. PGE had never had anything to do with such things before these groups came into power. It is interesting to listen to the speech given here regarding the large category, which is no longer the Independence Party and the forward party after this exchange. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir calls her "Hear, hear, and see." paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar was particularly concerned with the fact that the large groups are left green and Conspiracy. [[Up front.]] But it's still a little strange that in this respect, you can just go to a big business, so the taxpayers come to it on a very large scale and I'm going to go over it a little later. But because I was asked that, of course, under unorthodox factors for such things, why I called the Bright Future a faint copy of the Conspiracy then I'll be glad to go over it. I hope it's clear that I was talking in general about the bright future, all right? Senators Brights the Future, except for whiskers. paritaprevir Óttar Proppé, which I don't think is in that place, but the rest of it. Senators and maybe the new guy I have to admit that I can't remember the name, that's not the experience. A member of the council I'm looking for is a good honor not to remember its name. [[Take it up To the Elds' son of Love.]] Hv. paritaprevir Eldar Ástráðsson, I'll admit I haven't seen so much in him. When a bright future came in, I listened to the talk of a certain viewpoint, talking about new practices, especially during discussions at the council, that was not to be discussed, and that is not to be done. It went on for a while, but then they've completely become like the Conspiracy and the left green, exactly the same, no difference. In fact, as noted earlier, they are going further. Now I make no comment about getting criticism, if I say anything, let me be quite criticized for it, nothing at all, I have to live with what I say, nothing to it, probably normal. But to come up here in an hour of the President's conference board when they know I'm on the rosary, and they can be used whenever possible. paritaprevir The bright future has begun to be used so far, and people are going far beyond their previous language practice, and I did well over it earlier. What also turns to a bright future is a photocopy of the Continental Society. At least first, there has been a better future for government discipline, change of employment, and so forth. And I thought that was what. Senators of the bright future would mean that when they said so. For example, they have criticized us, believing that we are not following what we have spoken. It's just the most natural thing in the world, we have to stick to what we say, and you listen when you think you're not doing it. But so, as it turns out, a body member of the Birt House was representing the future in a budget called a "President" first, which was somewhat peculiar in the budget, but I'm not going to go over it now, that they have then completely crashed themselves, or we're not going to use it as an expression, let's say they've stuck completely tight with the Continent and the left green, even when it came to the case on public finances. We've had 25 meetings on that matter in the winter, we've had one trip abroad to find out about this, last thing. The body of elders did the same, and have done it as well as possible. [[We're talking about Backpack.]] However, they did not leave... [[Foreground in a proverbial code?]] That's when I hit the line on what? A deputy vice president of the United States, who specifically asked me to discuss this matter earlier, prayed specifically, and now a comment is being made. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir is a two-skined man dressed for that. A senator complained that I had criticized him. The senators of the past, with no answer to them, of course they can do so later, responded, and attacked me, and I could just wait for what I was going to do to review that matter. [[Up front.]] The point is, I didn't go to the President's conference board to do that. But even the government bill was confident. A senator of Bjarts does not support himself, even to support that this was taken out of the commission, even though it was completely finished. It is very clear that the book was completed in the book review of the part as a whole. A member of the Bjarts'future wrote: "No material criticism was found on the bill. When there is no material criticism, people are in a special place if they are opposed to receiving a matter that they claim to agree with. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, opposed to another senator, spoke here specifically about me, and I couldn't get involved in it, knowing the People's Cathedral, and spoke of the weirdness that I was discussing this Backbiting case because I had voted by it. Maybe I should have examined that case better, but it wasn't the committee I was in, but perhaps I should have learned that you were just never to accept a case that came from the last government. Sometimes, though, you thought it was worth it. This is a job structure, as it has been pointed out, and I hadn't realized it yet, I'll admit it, I'll take it to myself, how wrong it was. It's obvious that we're in trouble. The financier, let's be accurate, more part of the budget has gone beyond the budget and I have not seen the support of the government classes in that subject. I haven't felt him. On the contrary, comments have been made, because I was the acting chairman of the legal committee, when I took these matters out for some reason I don't remember who was. And that's where I come back to my criticism of the Councils Bjart of the Future that they were like a photocopy of the United States because you had intended it, in view of the Black Future, that they were completely with us in this regard. In this case, it was decided, as has it been said, to place 1.8 billion, 1800 billion. K., in a tunnel, and what the tunnel cost was not yet checked. The major categories, the left greens, and the United States, were so determined that they did not explore situations. What we can learn from this is that we should not work that way, for it turns out that the tunnel is much more expensive, the cost is 70% higher. And it seems to me that either we have to cancel or swallow this, but the contribution of the taxpayers to this major industry is naturally immensely high, including. because people did not prepare it well enough. I don't know if they could have prevented it by planning it better, but we don't change these things now. Not only is this project but preparation was also lacking in Venal honor channels, and both are essential for this major industrial structure in the VG and the United States. We're not gonna change this. It's either quitting the whole thing or working out what's just now, and it sounds to me that there's a common contingency about it. And it's kind of interesting that here comes why. Senators VG, they are very eager to complete this assignment, but they try to make all other tasks suspicious. [[Up front.]] I don't know why that is. This was a review that it may have something to do with domesticity, whether or not they represent the vote, but let it lie between parts. I think now that we're in this place, we should do what we can to make things right and at least not make any more mistakes. That's why I agree with it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir covered a review from the financier of his day when the case was being developed and turned to where this case should really be. I'm going to point it out to you. The job committee said that she gave special attention to the matter. This is very clear when you're discussing this matter, and we've taken the initiative. The legal committee to review this case, since the matter is very fatherless, and it points to one another. How ironic it is when we have the two largest means of transportation in our country that they are not under the Department of Internal Affairs that handles transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u82	The Greek way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u83	I think it's good for us to go over the situation and why this is here to try to learn from the mistakes that have obviously been made, but at the same time, we must not forget that we may be able to do something to correct the situation. I got it. I got it. The job board to review this aspect of the case, because it seems to me that it will improve if we follow the financial hearings of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u84	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðlaugur blessed Þór Þórðarson for his great interest in the future. I think he spent five minutes in his speech discussing my party, and I must be pleased with his interest in him. I want to set things right. A senator. He needs to know what he says here on the platform, but he said: "The future of a budget committee is like a copy of the United States photocopies. That's why I went up here because he wasn't referring to the whole thing, although it may have been what he was going to do, but he was talking about the senator who stands here and it seemed uncool to me. About the debate of the party and about what it is. A senator is somewhat disappointed that a bright future has not come true for her, but I would never mention other classes or talk about other classes in a speech chair of contempt. I think we should try to stick with it. I don't understand why neither. This discussion will be brought into the hands of a senator. We are discussing Bakka, and this was made clear in my committee party why we were opposed to the fact that the matter was being taken out at that time, at the end of the council, as this would likely be discussed in a very dramatic situation. This is an extremely important case that we would like to have agreed on. Hv. A senator has a strong opinion on this matter, but is it not clear to me that he would vote with the case at his time and had no priors or comments on how the case was worked?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u85	A respectable president. I'm generally very interested in politics, I don't think anyone has missed it, and I don't know why I'm not allowed to discuss other political parties. I didn't know it was specifically forbidden. And now I was especially called for to explain the words I had about the sect, so I specifically reviewed them and reasoned on why I called Bjarta's future a copy of the Convergence. If there is a disregard for it, there may be evidence that it is a measure of disrespect, but I do not feel that this is a big thing in relation to what is going on here. [[For example: Is this harassment?]] And this is where we call it. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's sis, which I have often criticized, although I often commend him. [[Up front.]] What I've been saying and what I'm pointing out because I think it's important is that my left party is changing its social security number very regularly in Icelandic politics, which is a bit special compared to what happens in other countries. It's changed the name and ID number and the number. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson knows it better than most, for he has gone a little far beyond the Icelandic system and has come to know it well because of his very existence in various categories. [[What does the senator mean?]] I'm saying there's always fresh wine here. I don't think this is gonna change if you go to new categories, and I think it's exactly the same thing with the Convergence. It's just a normal left category.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u86	Where's Elsa Lára now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u87	I hear what you're saying. Össur Skarðhéðinsson don't like what I'm saying, but I'm standing by it anywhere and at any time. [[Up front.]] But if you do. A senator who responded to me would have listened to my speech, and I specifically noted that I had been voted and had not participated in the discussion, and I apologized for having trusted the government in this matter. I wasn't in trouble. The job committee at this time, and it happened in more cases than this, that I voted with the former Supreme Court. A government and thought it had won the case so well. It wasn't right, and I just have to sit on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u88	You were led to a misdeed, do you mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u89	A respectable president. I think this is exactly why we politicians are one of the most unpopular classes in the country, because the discussion is often so inextricably and pathetic that you fall apart. I'm just sad about this. Well, that's the way it is. Hv. A senator admits that he has voted with the case because he has trusted the government. I can quite understand that you don't necessarily have a perspective on a case, that's often the way it is in this council hall, that you're voting on. I wouldn't trust a government I shouldn't be involved in, but I might trust my colleagues on that committee, so I find it remarkable to hear that. A senator has trusted a former government in regard to the way he and others have spoken about that government here in the Hall of Congress, that is not a beautiful statement. The situation is simply the fact that the project has begun, and we are actually bound by it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator follows the case, or will he vote against it? Does he think that this case was some special pool? A word that is very often used, por·piʹ. A senator often speaks of the Vadalah tunnel, not as if it were an important means of transportation, but as if it were the result of the ultimatum. I have to say, coming from the district and having nothing to say on these matters, that these are extremely important matters for the district, and I wouldn't say that the Venahus tunnels were a ballast instead of the Harpa in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u90	A respectable president. It's a sensitive dog. Senator. I simply reviewed why I thought a council of Bears' future, though with the exceptions I specifically mentioned, would not have been consistent, and I would have kept that word anywhere and at any time, and I did more materially over it, as perfunctory as possible. In case of a moment. A senator makes comments about something I said in that subject, and I encourage them. A member of the council to bring in a financial insert in this regard, but I was pointing to the twin skin at the Bright Future, to make it perfectly clear. That's what I mean when you vote, you don't seem to agree completely. Even if you are well - versed in matters, as much as possible, I have rarely been completely in agreement with one another. All of this is a compromise, and you have to evaluate whether you think it's more than or less, whether it's worth a vote with the case, even if you don't agree perfectly with it. With regard to this case and whether it's an ideal pot, I don't know if I used that word specifically, but well, I think in both of these matters, i.e. Backing up and Vaddle walk, has not been accomplished professionally and naturally in preparation. That is why we are in the position we are today. If it had been done, we wouldn't have had to present this bill. Since then, others, at least in this discussion, have taken a better look at the context. I may have done so at some other time, actually I think I've made an answer to that question. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon especially when I asked about this when he was discussing a business involved. I think there's a lot of twin skin at the VG and the United States when it comes to heavy industry. However, it has to be said that after the discussion here, the representatives of the United States have made it clear that the sect is a major category, making it a new member of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u91	V.E.G. President. Only a few words about this bill delivered by a greater part of the employment committee in the need to establish that specific projects due to construction at Backka in the Northern Parliament will be more expensive than planned, i.e. To make a tunnel in place of the head of Húsavík because it is thought to be far better than going the usual way, and there is more. I'm not going to extend this discussion much because I know I have a meeting with the council members at 7:00. So I'm going to go through this a little bit and hope I don't get excited about this further discussion. I'm gonna say this for a minute. It was really unusual that was being done in 2013, but it was also a model, when a random agreement was made on action at Backka for granted that nothing would be made of the execution and that nothing would be made of this discriminatory agreement unless it had been signed. It's finally over. This is unusual because, at times, this has occurred as the last phase of employment or employment companies, no matter where the country is, the state has come last. It was a great light, we can tell a guide, for those who were working on this structure, i.e. Organics, rurals and others. The work has been done. Of course, the wish for construction to start much earlier, but it did not succeed, and there are various reasons. I've said it's one of the reasons why the producer or manager is Germany, and they're very organized and very focused. That is why it was only a few days ago, a respectable president, who realized that the work would be done. When this was done in 2013, the number that has been spoken here, these 1,800 million, in view of the price at the end of 2012, that can be calculated as 2,000 now or 2,100 million, has now been revealed by the further design of the tunnel that they will become more expensive. Of course, it is to be sorry for it, as did every action that will be more costly than any human would wish for. It may have been that at an early stage, humans took the number as one mile [3 km] in plain tunnels and put it in. I remind you, and I want to emphasize that in the current transport program, which is available for the council, and in the long term schedule, these numbers are always put in. I can take one example of a tunnel, and it is a Sólveig tunnel, which hopefully goes into action over the years, in order to take away the bad mountain road. It involves numbers like this, and it is not unusual that much money is spent in preparation for a project until it is done or a few years earlier, especially if you believe that the project will not be carried out, they do not want to spend much money, whether in research, design, or anything else. Of course, this is the case. I've listened to the logic of the Roadmaker, they came before a professional committee, and the reasons I feel are that the road can stand quite upright in this regard. There are things that were thought to be unnecessary, and since then prices have risen, of course. A respectable president. Because it was pretty much cool with you at the time, for the job structure, I hope it will be here too. I can say right in the end, for I'm going to keep the speech brief so that I can finish the discussion, that I moved the questions that have been discussed here by reason of the question. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, to make a clearer understanding between the Ministry of Employment and Internal Affairs on behalf of Vega's making, because I agree completely and told the Commission that, of course, the decision to make a deal with the Vega program is to become a candidate, a supervisor, a supervisor, and the whole project. She is far better off with her experts and all the team she has in such a project. This must be kept in mind, a respectable president. I say in my own due respect that this bill will come to the Committee between 1 and 2. I'll keep them from their viewpoints because I think it's right. As I say, there's no one better down than the Vega program to do this job, watch, and all. This was saved to the Department of Employment because they didn't want it mixed up with transportation, reform, routine transport, the State Department's Office, read transport plans/cording, which is why it was saved there. I'm not going to continue to talk about the fact that the Department of Employment is supposed to promote it and make a deal, whether by the State Department of State or by the Road Building or by hiding the Road program. I hope that's okay with that. Again and again, I repeat that the road is the best thing to do and that it has the most knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u92	A respectable president. I gave it after going back to what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller because it's about time we have to end this meeting. Today, we have talked about the subject, which is very enjoyable, and that is making peace. Congressers really agree to make this change, so the laws are clear in terms of the highest authority. The title of the law carries it, when it is read, cannot be understood as different from that of a financial minister on behalf of a government fund to finance the construction of jobs in Backka's country, so that it is clear, dignified President. So my business here in the second talk is to request that this case be met with 2nd. Refer to a professional health committee, who hopefully makes these suggestions changes and with the merits that I have considered in talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-24-136.u93	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: ▪ We signed it, making our suggestion in line with 1st. 77st. Conventional protocol that the next meeting will be as follows: 1st Unprepared query time. 2. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 3. Special discussion of insurance. A verbal vendetta, Sigríður Ingadóttir, answers to the question of prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. 4. Special discussion of planned tax changes and balance in the community. Painting is Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and to answer, the minister of finance and economics is Bjarni Benediktsson. 5. Specific patient safety reports following the number of healthcare professionals reported. An apocalyptic, by Jón Þór Ólafsson, to counter this issue, will be the minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. This proposal will be introduced at the beginning of the next meeting.
