ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u1	Borist has a letter from the 9th. Smoke. As such, Helgi Hjörvar, says that he will not be able to attend next week. So today, at Mörður II, a deputy of the United States Association lists the district's Mortar Árnason. 1 strategist in the district has foretold past deaths. In the past, Árnason has taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u2	To answer, financial and economic minister, education and cultural minister, social and housing ministers and resource ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u3	A respectable president. Though large sections of the work market have been reached, much of the country's debate remains wide open. Some of the more than 20,000 civil employees and members of the BHM have been in conflict for eight weeks. We hear that there is very little going on in those negotiations. The health - care situation is becoming very serious. Nurses are on a strike, and this happens to patients. Since then, we hear that one third of the radiologists at the Land Hospital has quit their jobs. In recent years, we have seen a growing attendance of nurses. The midwives now seem to be giving up on the situation. During the past week alone, 22 midwives called to the surgeon for confirmation of jobs in order to apply for jobs abroad. These are about 17% of the midwives working at the Land Hospital. We can't afford to lose all these people. We need this to hold on to public health care, which is compatible with what happens best in neighboring countries. It is essential for us to view health care as a whole. By the end of the year, doctors'salary requirements have been met, but other health - care professionals can also choose a field of activity. It has become most challenging to see the government's integrity in regard to the strike of BHM and the serious situation there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u4	Mr. President. I'll share my concerns with you. A candidate of the position who can agree with him that there are many conditions, especially in the health - care system but much more, much more serious, due to the loss of nurses and other health - care professionals. Does the government really ignore the demands of these groups? No, you're not. We've suggested in this discussion that we have to try to achieve agreements that are allowed in the economy and that we don't have other discussions or put too much pressure on the economy, that they're not out of line with what is happening in general in the country, while we want to make it clear to these classes that we have respect for these jobs, we think they're important, and we'll be very happy if people look at other countries because the choice in Iceland is not good enough. In the government, the pay was substantially increased last year, by 7◯8%, at the same time as inflation was below 2%, approximately 1%. In the public sector, the level of pay last year is great, but unfortunately, that does not seem enough. People come to the bargaining table now and say: We have over the past decade withdrawn from others, and now we need to be corrected. My answer to this question is: Ten years of correction cannot be made back. Not everyone can always get correction to some other reference group. To me, this is primarily an evidence that the labour market model we use in Iceland is defective. It's actually about to collapse. These repeated strikes, the endless leap of dolphins, and the endless comparison that makes possible no one to negotiate because it has become a launch for the next one, show that we need to move to a new model, more toward the Norwegian model. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That will be a project for the next year. But we need to get a conclusion in this fight, which is in some way consistent with the scope available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u5	A respectable president. Has the highest. A financial minister wondered that the eternal comparison he is referring to is the direct result of an enormous failure from a collapse? This decrease is due to the success of the Icelandic kronos and to the degree of loans at the same time. Could it be that the fact is that the nation is not ready to live in the consequences of the Icelandic crown and the murky flexibility of that crown? V.E.G. The secretary of finance has to face the fact that he added one of the gangs of the Crown's gangs before the end of the year, doctors. One class of consequences of the Icelandic crown cannot be corrected. For all groups, the nature of the matter must be handled with responsibility, as other classes, such as radiologists and nurses, can also get employment in other countries. Don't think it's time to run for the highest level. Secretary of finance that it is not a national fee that calls a failure, interest increases, and calamities to a country of Icelandic people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u6	Mr. President. It simply cannot resist the view that the U.S. dollar is an independent problem. We've had low inflation and lower interest. The lesson for us today is that if we continue in that course but do not expect too much correction and dresser improvement through tax increases or remunerations, we can have even lower interest and a sustained low inflation. On the other hand, it is no doubt a little exciting for those who want to get rid of the Icelandic crown to suggest that there will be an increase in wages and then there will be in in inflation and high interest because, in the end of time, people will step forward and say: "Look, all of this was to teach. It's amazing to speak, an incredible argument to use. [[Up front.]] The fact is, public funds do not put pressure on the Icelandic crown. The situation in business countries is also not putting pressure on the Icelandic crown, nor is the situation in the rural community. The only thing threatening the Icelandic economy about inflation and higher growth is the workforce. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is not enough for humans to present irresponsible agreements after a higher inflation and higher rate, saying: "It was all the Icelandic crown to blame. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Social and housing minister to the status of community groups whose lowest income has and specifically cites those who have been reminded of the new labour agreements. Their situation is very heavy, as it were. Congress and the highest. Of course, a minister is clear, and it is only enough to mention the progress these groups have. If we examine the income of microchip that does not receive any special compensation, they are around 170,000. in a month, which, of course, is extremely low, and it is difficult to survive. We know that there is a group who have this amount for a month, and in fact, they have very few chances of getting out of their position, for they choose not to become invalid, and that is for many, unfortunately, it is a responsibility not to get out of that position again. So I'd like to ask the highest. First of all, how does she provide for the social security system? Will there be any improvements in this group's status following a collective agreement? Of course, we need to keep our place in order to make sure that all can share in the community. We can also see that with this contribution and the cost of living, we do not guarantee everyone the right to participate in the community. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will she use herself in these activities, both through the increase of pay for disability, but through other measures? I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in particular on housing matters, for a credit agent reported that earning money is the highest priority for most of the clients of that office, and a large number of them are on the market. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in particular: Is not drastic measures needed? [[The president calls.]] For example, I mention a roof on rent that is now being recorded in Berlin, elsewhere in Europe, just to get some control of the cost of living. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u8	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry from what? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I think I do, yeah. A senator and, in fact, the entire body of Congress agree on the importance of our continuing to improve the ideal pensioners, the benefit of all in the community, and especially those who have mentioned them. We are on today's situation that based on a recent publication of OECD, there is one least poverty in Iceland compared to other OECD countries, I think only Denmark and the Czech Republic are in a better position than we are in this respect. But that does not change the need for us to do better, just as well. A senator here talked about. I'd like to point out some of the points presented in government declarations in connection with collective agreements. Hv. A senator mentioned the house - to - house situation himself. I have repeatedly spoken about how important it is that we meet up with the homes mentioned among us. Those who receive the lowest money through social security are certainly one of them. Its access to housing is very important, so our declaration that we will start building here 2,300 social apartments over the next four years will, in my opinion, have considerable meaning to say. The statement says that we're going to aim for no more than twenty-25% of the income of those who receive these apartments, that's something I think that's very important. Then there are two other points in the declaration that have not received as much attention as I would like to mention here. On the one hand, there's a recording of a new credit system. Those who are ill have the greatest health costs, and the cost of patients'activities has increased, especially since collapse. It speaks of an increasing increase in the Kingdom's payment to meet those with the greatest cost, the weakest. There is also the declaration that the State will continue to equal the disability of the pension fund, which I think will certainly meet these groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Yes, yes, I think we can agree on our objective, and many here agree on the goal that it is our job to ensure the right of all to participate in society. However, I would like to reiterate the questions I mentioned here: Do the chief minister uses it to promote the improvements directly, not merely to reduce the expense, payment, and increased access to housing, but to the figure we watch, the basic financial value of a pensioner? The other point I mentioned is the rent roof, for the trend in Europe is that despite the offer of housing, rent is still being raised. So now we see big cities, such as the city of Berlin, going along the way to rent simply a roof. I remember the highest. The minister mentioned the way she felt when she was a boy. A senator pointed out the experience she had in Sweden. [[The president calls.]] This discussion is now under way in London. Is that how it works? A minister imagines that it would be possible to leave? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u10	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said here earlier that I understood it so that in our declaration we set goals, we put a roof on expenses, i.e. Let's say how much we believe the cost of housing should be in the system we intend to build up here. Yeah, I can tell you right here that it's my job to be a social and housing minister to use me for the better of the pensioners. It is very clear in the social security legislation how the improvements in social security should change; on the other hand, the price of development and the reward development, so the legislation is clear in this regard. Then, too, I would like to point out that there has been a lot of work going on that has been involved in making fundamental changes to the social security benefits. This committee will hopefully start making suggestions on how to take action in the system in order to improve the quality of the pensioners. So it is clear to me that governments are going to continue as we have been doing, to improve the status of the pensioners, as are other citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u11	A respectable president. I am quite concerned about the position of the Generals, a great lack of organization now in the work of the Generals. There is no work plan and no plan available on how to complete the Senate. A prisoner has to finish to have another start, so it is now. I'm worried about the way the council shows itself to the people. I don't think the public understands properly--very understandable he doesn't understand it properly, I don't understand it sometimes myself--what's happening in here and why it has to be like this. I think it is very important to start a deep discussion about the underlying lesions causing this condition year after year and cause this exceptionally bad situation today. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has contributed to this discussion by making an appointment on his moneybook the other day about possible changes in the people's affairs. Many things there I found very interesting and would like to agree with, such as that the matter exists between council members. But I'd like to have a nice, relaxed conversation in a beautiful setting - maybe you could numb the lights a little here? -... aboutthat, why does this happen? Why are we in this state? The government wants 74 members of Congress, as well. It's obviously not going to last us the summer to finish it. There's some way we have to negotiate. What is the role of the General President in this situation? What can the smaller part do to help? What can the more part do? What adjustments must be made, what is needed now in order to help for the Senate work, and to make some sense of this? What's a vision of the highest. Economic and economic ministers are in this position now, what needs to be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u12	Mr. President. I welcome the opportunity to discuss these matters in this field. It's often said about the state of this council now that it's a disorganization to teach, but as I see it, we've been very organized. There is this conflict between more parts and smaller parts in the council, and the rules of how the communication is conducted that have organized the council into this position, not just now, but in many recent years. They are forced to sit down at the end of Congress and come to an agreement in which these matters are resolved at a few meetings - I was going to say, "I am in smoke-filled back rooms, but I don't know if they're so smoke filled with evolution in the legislation of the past years and because of the small number of senators in smoking. The solutions include finding a new arrangement to frame this power balance between most parts and smaller parts. Of course, we must agree that the majority will of the council will have to be shown. At the same time, we would agree that the memory of the part must also be heard. My opinion is that the president of the council should have more power to cut the knot when humans have not reached the decision. This does not mean that he should always remain in his arms in the greater part of his time. Rather, it is a fundamental precept that this is the way he chooses and so settles his work, and he enjoys the position here at the council that he is trusted to weigh it and when necessary. Otherwise, we need to work out rules that will keep this situation from being repeated. But in the final analysis, no rules or changes in them will solve these problems on their own, of course, there must be agreements on this at the council, and each member of the Parliament must take a look at himself as to keeping these things in order. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u13	A respectable president. It's interesting to me that there is a possibility that there's no smoking rooms anymore that make things so much worse in the council. I agree with this tone of speech in the highest. Minister. I think it's obvious at this point, and often in the past, the position of the Generals needs to be much stronger, so he needs to be much more active in solving these issues. He's responsible for a work programme. What does the work plan mean? For example, there are many institutions that have a work plan, schools, and it is very important to work on it. The summer is to be used to prepare for the next assembly and so on. I don't feel respected for this, and I think the President of the Generals is supposed to play that key role. Admittedly, there are major differences in the situation today. I think it should be my court case and the people should be allowed to decide such a thing, I think it would straighten it out. There are many things that are too late, aren't they? Isn't there a certain habit that has to be eradicated? [[The president calls.]] Don't we just have to start a very extensive and good conversation about how we should improve the work of the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u14	Mr. President. I meant, not that there was a lack of smoke-filled back rooms that caused the problem, but that in these same rooms, the same problems are solved; they used to be full of smoke and not even today. I've mentioned that Congress is a great thing to live. It seems to me, to make any mistake, that there needs to be a change in the constitution. I've mentioned this with the President. Finding a balance between the smaller parts and the majority of the parts, in which you find yourself unsatisfactory. I'd be very happy if we stayed here for a very special discussion about it. So let's keep in mind that we don't have to find the bike in this. There is an arrangement in the countries around us that is far more successful than what we have here. This includes making a decision that allows for a specific and limited period of discussion. This is one essential requirement for maintaining a work schedule. When humans cannot agree on how long an individual should discuss unique matters, then the situation that we now have is created, with a large number of subjects not being assigned to the program. I'm not going to blame anybody, I don't want to be in that conversation, she's not going to come back, to go into some divulge. [[The president calls.]] They've all played by these rules and tried to maximise the benefits of the views they represent with these rules. My opinion is that this arrangement is completely skin-related.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u15	Mr. President. The safety and quality of the conflict are undermined by injuries as well as by society in general. In fact, strikes are legal authority for harming third parties. In the presence of such a warrant, it is important that a process is also present that reduces the likelihood of a strike, so that these strings can be assembled before it is needed. It's a pleasure to hear the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson sees this problem and talks about a tool to solve it. He said just before the country's labour market model is about to collapse and that we need to move towards the North American model and that we'll be assigned in the next few years. Two years ago, the major workers in the workforce agreed on this Norwegian approach. The government was working on this and went to check it out. Still, it doesn't seem to me that work is specific. I haven't heard from the Minister, the project manager in this, what's really going on to move us in this direction. How long before we see such a bill presented in the General Assembly to frame these issues? We talked about this two weeks ago, so we didn't make it clear. I'm just gonna put up a pressure on a minister and ask: Is there a minister who is a project manager who hasn't defined and planned the project? Is he not setting down the time frame and means that the bill will be ready? So, then, how far do these legislations go, or this bill from the Minister to this council? These are normal questions for the project manager, and I hope a minister will accept them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u16	Mr. President. It could be said that the first steps were formally taken by the government's declaration in connection with the preparation of collective agreements a few days ago. There we opened up our work on economic schemes, and we look to it as the first sign of movement on these things. But in the end, it has to be a cooperation project. It's a government cooperative project, and I mean state and community, and the labour market bodies, the unions that work there, and employers. What's positive about today's situation is that the reports referred to at any given time. A senator shows that there seems to be a common view of moving closer to the Norwegian model. It's a common basis. The problem with today's situation is that too many people say, "Before we take this step, we first need to get a little correction, first we need to get a little more from the rest of them because they've got more than we've had in recent years, so let's go into this new model, this new arrangement, where we all come to a conclusion about what the space is, and then we'll be changed by what we've got at the table. This situation is still there. We are involved, as we have discussed in this period of inquiry, in BHM and nurses and others at the bargaining table, to ask for considerably greater increases in their stores, but for example, there is still something uncorrected in the public market. If one is going to walk to the end of that course, it is like a great deal of confusion, that the last correction will never have been taken care of. Never. We need to talk about this openly and acknowledge that changing the arrangement is so desirable that something must be left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u17	Mr. President. Then I'll see that it's one stage, the economy. How good it would be, then, to be able to discern the identity of these attacks! It's like the highest. A minister says these strings need to be adjusted. Would it not, then, be part of the process of moving into a frame where all strings are set in a way that if one string is set, do not adjust the other strings? In this way, of course, some people have to yield, not all can get what they want; that in this process, negotiations about how certain classes get some corrections are made, that such collective contracts lead us into this process. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what he intends to do about works performed by healthcare professionals. Citizens are very clear on what they want their taxes to go. In a survey conducted by the Pirantars by Christmas, in November, 90% of the population said that they wanted to set standards for health care. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the Minister if this is not a priority for these focal points. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u18	Mr. President. First with regard to the latter, people want them to be priors for health and welfare in general. I think the government was doing it. For example, we have never had more donations to the Land Hospital, and we have largely contributed to our welfare. One way we have done this is by walking closer to the banks. We've put some special taxes on the banking system, and we've cut down broken open shops to pay a lot of taxes so we can do this together with a bare budget. For the other thing - economic Council, it may be mainly designed to become a meeting point where people can come to a common conclusion on the available space. I imagine a completely changed arrangement for future state states, that he has a clearer role, that he is meant to follow this mark, and that he has no authority to go outside when it has been found. We need to find solutions to the differences between public rights and public markets. [[The president calls.]] One of the things we should be looking for in the future is that the public sector has some kind of pay policy. [[The president calls.]] This has been one of the problems we've had in the public market most of all, and public employees have wanted to negotiate for the pay box on the public market each time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u19	V.E.G. President. I had a request for a special discussion about putting down the high school in Hafnarfjörður and putting it under Iceland's Technologies School, but I'm going to use my application time to review that matter and, in fact, another thing as high as possible. Minister's been working on. In this regard, a special request was made. A month was given to consider a particular matter, just a couple of schools together. The minister immediately made the decision to go to that matter regardless of everything else, but it was found that little or no consultation had been made with the country society or the people of the high school in Hafnarfjörður. Then a legal opinion went on to say that this is not how it works, since the Council has to be legally authorized so that its union can go by. This was followed by the uniting of Iceland's Landing College and the University of Iceland, but the highest. The minister was reassigned with that matter. We saw a letter on the unity of high school in a northern country that had been sent to school. Everything was brought back. Then comes the question and criticism: Wait, which path is the highest. Minister of education? That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: First, has a minister prepared to present the language of the Gilead School in Hafnarfjörður and Technologies School at the World Council? Is that a course of action? Is it not possible to consider other options before making a final decision at the council? Second, how is the highest? A minister of trade and to-dos and education to be conducted next year? It has something to do with this case. Important decisions are being made. What other unity in school is being held? Third, it's for the highest purpose. Ministers to run the education system, college and college, especially high school, on the same budget as after the collapse? There's been very little extras. Remuneration elevations, elevations due to student values have been observed, but it appears that this should be fully met by surgical cuts to the number of students. Of course, that is a major concern. Of course, there are other issues, including those associated with agreements in terms of education. [[The president calls.]] None of this is being discussed at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Regarding the unity of the Technical School and the Hafnarfjörður School, there is a big misunderstanding. A senator and I may ask him to give further evidence in his later answer to the fact that the legal opinion was told that law was in some way restricted. The only thing that occurs is what has been known for a long time and is available in all such assignments, i.e. that, of course, the Senate's financial resources need to be obtained through financial contributions. There were no other findings in this law sheet than that if the use of the materials should be completely altered, special measures must be taken. But it isn't. There will continue to be school in this building in Hafnarfjörður, in this area, i.e. In industrial research, it becomes more powerful than ever before. We all know of the problems that the University of Hafnarfjörður has long been in and that nothing has been done, but this is an opportunity to further the more successful industry in Hafnarfjörður. It will continue. Of course, it is true that the matter will then come to the council when legal rights are passed. Well, that's what it's got. Every opportunity to discuss this matter is given to a senator. For the next year or the next few years, I'd like to explain, as I've actually done here before, that a large cooperation and cooperation have been carried out between us at the Ministry of Education, the Association of Employment, the Team of Industrials, the BSRB and the Teachers'Committee on Change. There, working groups have been working for months and are starting to see the results in this regard. A great deal of cooperation has been there, and it is obvious that something needs to be done. We cannot carry the long - term arrangement, which has brought us far too few students into this system. Third, as for funding as they have been here, as in the collapse, I would like to note that the last government's actions were taken to withdraw about 2 billion from the high school system and the high school management system. At the same time, new schools were opened, but there were many new projects that did not come directly to school, such as a study is a working road that used a certain portion of high school. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They put in enormous sums of money. There was room for something I would have considered more reasonable to use in another way. But surely it is true, a respectable president, that a three - year system is being taken out of four years. The number of students will be reduced, and the years will also be shrinking. It's normal for us to see the number of students in the system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u21	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what it takes, and it has to be agreed on to lay down institutions, change housing, and make up other facilities that are also to be arranged for their rural communities. The decision is then taken by one minister after a short job without any consultation or discussion, and thereafter the decision is to be addressed. That is what is being criticized and is not exemplary in one way or another. I've heard a speech from the highest. Ministers that there's going to be a great rise, a great victory, but I've never seen what to do about it. It is true that a report is being made regarding the training and industry, but what are we going to do in the fall? There's been a shortening of study for a student's test, and we had a meeting that we had, including, a meeting. with school champions in the northern part of the West, i.e. In the district, it is estimated that the schools there will be fired on the underprivileged budget. Minister just described from the former government, there's nothing to raise. Still, higher teacher rates and higher rates are to be paid for, which is to cut down the student's number and the ministry in other ways. There is no magic that can solve this problem without depositing extra money, so beautiful words do not run us too far. [[The president calls.]] It's all in chaos in the country because of a random decision made by a minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u22	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. Senator, there are no magic solutions. That's why people are taking action. We are faced with such challenges, and there is no change, for example, that there is less river walk, there is a reduction in the stream. It is also a fact that by leaving a three - year system, students are reduced, but at the same time, there are opportunities to increase the pressure on an average. I'd like to point out that in 2012, I think that it was, at the average price of 2014, about 890,000 dollars. the student in the system. However, we have brought it to just over one million, 1,000,100 dollars. I don't think so. This is much less because there has become more room for us to run the schools. Then, with regard to the unity of the schools mentioned here, the Technical School and the Class of Hafnarfjörður, I just want to point out clearly. A senator will, and he will be able to examine it for himself, that there are many examples of how such institutions work together. There's always been and nothing new in it, nothing unusual, nothing unusual, that then always comes to the Generals for financial rights, but there's no other way than it's always been, a respectable President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u23	A respectable president. There has been a truly interesting discussion on this subject. I must say exactly as it is in view of the discussion and the comments made on 1st. I am surprised at how much more of the committee is involved in changing matters. I would have thought that men had taken seriously what was said here, for example, about the committee that follows the protocols and also that we wanted to make a better decision on how to transfer the institutions. That is why it is disappointing to see how little change the matter is here again. This will give us reason for good consideration and for careful discussion here at 2 Corinthians 6: 9, 10. We have protested that in the first place. This bill stipulates that a minister should determine the establishment of an institution under him unless the law recommends it otherwise. On page 18. 5 The report then discusses that it may be desirable to set general criteria for the development of changes to the employment status and rights of employees in these changes and to be in the hands of the minister of the State to determine whether such criteria should be published. A respectable president. I'm not satisfied with this, and I don't think it's the right approach. I would have much rather liked to see the Council set those criteria, i.e. that the Council would discuss how we will conduct government operations, but it is not placed in the hands of individual advisers to make such decisions or, rather, that the financial secretary of the day will provide some guidelines. But there's not even a premise that you're going to do it here, so it's not even clear, it's just a possibility. We have an example, a respected president, of the recent losses that men surely needed to have some reference to these matters. I'd like to mention it when I'm at the highest. The prime minister took office of the Minister of the Interior, making an immediate decision that a police officer who was to be located on the Cape should be located under the East. It was, in my opinion, an enormous misdemeanor and when a new Minister of state, the Supreme Minister. Ólöf Nordal's minister, accepted them, she withdrew that decision. There was an empty idea that this office should be located in a different location than that long - range policies had been established. For one thing, I think it's important that we nail it down in the way decisions are made so that it won't be made in a void of extraordinary advisers, just because they can think of each time. What was serious in this case, when the highest. The decision made by the prime minister when he was in charge of the Minister of Ministers was that much work had taken place in policy that influenced the decision that this office should be placed on the Cape, and then, at that point, it was established at that point. The work and the policy effort there, where people had been underneath the bigger picture, were greatly reduced. Then I'd also like to mention that we've been seeing in the administration of these recently lost decisions without any connection. For example, there was the grantings of the Presidency Department, which were sent by text messages without someone's necessarily applying for them for strength, while we have an entire network of support systems that would have been so easy to place this money into, so that professional criteria apply to the intervention of it. Now I'm not saying that this project didn't deserve everything, it's not about that, it's about that we have some reference, we have a frame of mind about how we spread money and distribute it. We have very good experience with the support and support system in the administration, both of the Ministry of Education and Culture, and also of the Ministry of Employment; that may be the ministry that has the largest fund of this kind. It is natural to use the creations that have been created there, and good experience has been obtained. Ministers and us politicians are not supposed to have fingers in this kind of distribution directly, because it often involves the stamping of being some kind of political bites and gifts, but I believe that supporting culture, and supporting the activities of various kinds, should come from the public, especially in early stages before the projects are given wings and can fly themselves, the state should do so. Rather, it is so important that we do not create suspicion that we have a creative force that is beneficial and that humans know in advance exactly what is being done. It also helps all applicants and others to understand the best approach to the administration. A respectable president. This may be a bit out of nowhere, but I'm taking it as an example of a factor where I feel that people have been going too far beyond what is normal and too much is making decisions in relation to larger images that need to be underneath. Then we came to the schools because it was also being discussed here as another example. Let me give you four examples that I believe are evidence that the Council must set general criteria for the administration in various aspects, including transport of institutions and partnerships of institutions. It's time for the shoes. We received reports here at a council during other matters - people have treated such issues as a frame plan - to the highest level. A minister of education would be driving a program past the General Assembly, which involves uniting schools, and not merely uniting schools, but making a decision that a private school should take over schools owned by the State, i.e. high school in Hafnarfjörður. This is a man's job and he's working his way completely past the Council. It's not working. As a result, an Andri Árnason lawyer who was employed for Hafnarfjörður City - published on the website of Hafnarfjörður, came up for those who are interested in learning about it - and it clearly shows that this is not to be done because laws require that such decisions be made before the Council. Even if this is the case, the trend in the administration seems to be to bypass the General Assembly with various issues. Of course, there is no intention of uniting schools, making adjustments in school policy, promoting high school policy, and driving such policies past the General Assembly, and somehow making it appear in financial laws. Our goal here is to bring this kind of case before the council, issues that have to do with policy in important areas, and demand a great deal of government funds, that they are discussed here in this room. The same applies to the policies being run. It is only reported, and not only by the Generals, but also by the representatives of the local school, that they should go to unity, such as the unity of a high school in the north. This isn't gonna work, Mr. Honorable President. Then we came to the case that I know this case was decided on. A government to pass through, that's the transfer from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri. I'm gonna take my hat off to Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, the highest. A seafaring and agricultural minister, for recently asking a good degree of respect for how he acted in that matter. Doesn't change the fact that that excuse came too late. What has happened in the meantime since one - sided announcement is made that a man is moving the Fishing Room from Hafnarfjörður and north to Akureyri? The Agency has grown so weak that we are now being informed that the work there is impaired because so many employees have stopped and have not been able to complete legal tasks at the necessary rate and the remainder of the call. This is what happens when people fail to do what is right. In this case, that wasn't a good thing to do. In the meantime, a decision was made in an empty space to move an institution to shore, and it was such a virtual decision to demonstrate that people are thinking about the land and trying to meet their policies on settlements. At the same time, there was no overall vision of how the public work is generally spreading throughout the country. At the same time as they were announcing this decision, they were leaking into the capital sector from the government institutions, from the country region, as well as from government companies. I take, for example, that when we were discussing it, I remember earlier in the winter, this bill here at 1st. Then there was a job from Istavia at the airport in Akureyri, one of three jobs. So you have to watch the whole movie. There is no decision to make a single institution where vast specialization is required and to move it to a country with a man and a mouse. I'd like to state that I believe that we need to be careful to distribute public employment in a fair way around the country. But this is not the way. It's not the way to take one organization this way and move it. This has been the case, which is extremely debilitating to the Agency. We see the consequences now, and I hope that this will be a lesson in how to make decisions like this. Not to be overlooked is the fact that inside such institutions are people who have gathered vast expertise and are faithful and secure their institutions and jobs and without doubt remembered, under some circumstances, agree to move away with the agency 400 miles [400 km] away. Not to be overlooked is the fact that they too have family members. These are people who are associated with the community that the Agency is now in a variety of relationships. They know that all who run homes and have family responsibilities are no longer such that there is only one breadwinner in the home, and all you can do is tear up your home and your family will follow the man to any land where he is going to work. The structure of families is only more complicated than that, except that families are often combined and such, and they must take into account that society has changed in this respect. There's no disrespect for the staff they're going to perform in this way. This had a destructive effect that will be slowly bitten out of the needle. A respectable president. Then you need to ask: How should this be done? It is only natural that we, who criticize this way, try to develop ideas about how to do it best. We have felt that way, and we have spoken of the restoration of a project without a location. That assignment is truly interesting. I can tell you that we did this, for example, when I was in the Ministry of Industrial Affairs. Then we received an employee into the Ministry, an expert in the Ministry of travel, located in the Philippines. It was only very convenient. This was the Ministry's staff, located in the Isaf taking a position at one of the Offices of the Ministry, where they gave a tremendous amount of work and the ability to perform trips around the country and was an extremely important employee for the Ministry. It didn't matter where the person was located. So this is quite possible, more dignified president, and we can do this more fully. I encourage men to take this assignment out of drawers, and review if they can't see how they can reinvigorate it into administration. We could also have put more energy on that project during the last terms, I admit it, but it was so that the energy went on very much in an effort to close 218 billion holes in the state's budget, so a project like this went on for it. But I encourage the present government to adopt it and try to make it its own and to cooperate with this ideologies. Then I also find it interesting how the EEA has approached this. The EEA has made it very successful. Former Environment Minister, my ass. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, did a pretty good job of answering to me yesterday. The EEA has a work post in six locations around the country, if I recall correctly, and when a new employee is hired, it is open to him to work at any work station under the EEA, there is no task being filled into any special station, and it gives tremendous flexibility. Then, too, employees have the flexibility to move, can make a decision to consider the matter with their immediate family to move elsewhere. I believe this is also an enormously interesting approach. I believe that by mixing such approaches, we can create greater flexibility and make this possible, so that people will respond to the call to run a powerful government in the capital area, but at the same time have public work in many parts of the country. This can result in a powerful program that reaches these goals. I feel that it is also important that we do what has been discussed in this discussion, including why. paritaprevir Svandís's son, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, that the state is going to keep a record of where the public work is and observe it in a complete way. It's a bad thing that we're here to discuss a case that's about to move one institution out into the country, with the consequences it had, at the same time as from here on out of the country, is leaking south to the capital. Then the action will be meaningless. We as well as ordinary men are willing to support such work, and we agree that there is some way in which we try to create a system that ensures that we distribute our jobs throughout the country. Time flies, noble President. I must also mention here that I am amazed and felt that members of the committee have not decided to change par. back where it is assumed that the Ministry of Presidency should give governments advice on the interpretation of ethical principles when considering and providing instruction on ethical rules within the board of directors. Today, there is a special committee that handles this, which is made up of more than one department, from the Ministry of Presidency, and I think it's a much better arrangement. Today, transparency is required, a requirement for a person to work in a certain way, to be good at the game, to work, and to make decisions. Then it is of great importance that there is doubt about the sea whether or not people interpret the same principles as those of the Board of Directors. That won't happen, Mr. Honorable President, if this is in the arms of a political minister every time, i.e. Prime Minister. I'd like to encourage people to think about this better between discussions and hopefully make some changes to 3rd. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for the speech and particularly for presenting the changes that are going on in the education system together through school, because I think there's a point that matters for this big, big talk. I have said that I'm worried that the changes that are being made with this bill can lead to less-than-meditated decisions and even more readily access to eutrophication. There is not much trust in society, either at Generalis or in the government. That's why I'd like to ask. A member of Congress whether it agrees with me in approval of this bill, in which the Ministers are given the authority to pronounce the institutions, may have a much greater impact on how office or Ministry measures are composite, and most certainly have a moral precedent, whether this is a likely step towards increasing the trust of the nation in the state and thereby the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u25	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry. My answer is no, I don't think so. I think that these changes can be done well so that they will be one step closer to growing trust. I think to increase confidence, we need to ensure a certain transparency. We need to make sure that guidelines are clear, and we need to make sure that the way we make decisions is so reasonable in advance as to which guidelines are available. In this case, such a protocol is actually being decommissioned, a meta-analysis of processes is being taken off, a controlled decision is being taken off. Under such circumstances, I feel that men are going back rather than the others, and they do not bear in mind the view of trying to increase confidence in the government because we desperately need it. Besides, we have an example of the last loss that makes you believe that professional assessments are behind the decisions that will be based on the authority given by the bill. I think it's something you have to work for, i.e. Work for trust. The decisions that have been made, such as between Fish Labs and High School Compatibility Decisions, text-saving funding decisions and decisions on transporting an economist between ballots in vacuums, they're not for that. Therefore, we are more likely to create guidelines approved here at the General Assembly, allowing the guidelines to be established in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u26	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers. I couldn't agree more. A senator's use of transparency is of utmost importance to build confidence in the processes used. I've just asked that question in the past, in question, in question, 10th paragraph. The bill is a change in the state's rights and duties of the workers where the workers' mobility is being increased. This change has been shown to reduce the transparency. I have said that this could have a bad effect on a woman's position in a job market, which has pointed out that increasing transparency is the best thing for them to do in the same way as men. I'd like to hear a point of view. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u27	A respectable president. I understand those concerns. I think there's a reason why they're worried about the flexibility they're giving in there. But I also understand where the request for this has come from because the ministry has different sizes, and it is extremely difficult, heavy, and expensive for the Ministry to hire new people. In addition, it is often established whether the processes are okay, whether they are often reported on, etc., so the recruitment process needs to be very clear, very transparent and very professional. Therefore, I have been a spokesman for trying to have some central staff agency in the management department that handles these recruitments, not allowing it to rest on a few matters, but sending a request to the secretary's song, and then to a certain office through it. Perhaps we could work this out so that we could have some of these central offices and she would advertise, and then public employees could also apply for other jobs and thus move. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. There are many things I can agree with her when it deals with criteria and projects that can be initiated in the administration. She turned to the basic material and support of her talk to Article 1. which has been talked about, i.e. that a minister shall state the establishment of the agency under him unless it is otherwise recommended by the law, this improvement for the minister to be able to make such a decision. I'd like to get to it based on our primary objective, the question about Article 1. The bill, which is increasing the flexibility in the administration, in the management and management of human resources. There is great knowledge in the administration of very diverse and broad fields. If we give it to a knowledge company, this is of great importance in the expansion of these laws, regarding the mobility of employees. A senator entered his talk. But I'd like to ask, if we look at this from standards, creative as well. A senator spoke of: What is the sense of need - diagnosis? A senator Needs to Come On? And let us, regardless of whether the minister has this warrant or not, let him always respect the laws of government on average and on the grammatical reasons for making such a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u29	Thank you. A senator for the question and speculation. If we're going to do something by wanting to spread our work around the country and being at the same time with a powerful and well-endowed administration, I think this whole thing needs to be looked at. That is why I discussed it earlier in response to the possibility that if we see that a lot of jobs are necessary to move out of the country into town, and there may be other ways in which some people might be running institutions. I also think maybe it's time for a certain point. Us politicians have said so many times. We all say: Well, we'd like to increase the number of public jobs in the country as far as possible. And then people make decisions like with a fish lab, which I believe was a very harsh approach. We'll never take sides in this. Maybe we should do it once for all, just sit down, map these institutions, where the workers are, and seriously look at them, based on the objectives of each institution, whether they can be better, and whether they can change the location of the institution. I also think that in the context of this, we should ask ourselves, " Should I generally adopt the EEA's work ethic, which I went to my speech, since it is totally open to the employee's work station when he is hired into the EEA? ' We've got government activity all over the country. It is very easy and a good access to public or branch institutions where workers can find a position and thus encourage these jobs without location. [[The president calls.]] I encourage us to sit down together, examine the overall picture, and then make a decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for very clear answers. We agree completely on the importance of flexibility in the administration to use human resources and knowledge. Hv. In his speech and here in reply, a senator did a great deal of research. I just want to follow through on that, because of it. A senator mentioned jobs without a location, did not the basic concept of the ideologies harmonize with the increased legal freedom that is involved in the bill we are discussing? Regarding the code of ethics - if we generally talk about ethics as part of daily activities and an active part of work, guidance and guidelines for decisions, about proper manners and professionalism, I wondered, then, " Is it really not important that the staff itself is handling and working with these rules every day? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u31	A respectable president. First of all, regarding the code of ethics, I believe that as the arrangement exists today - where there is a group of people, and the responsibility is spread to follow it and to teach it to the people on the basis of it - is much better than that one Ministry under one secretary does so. That's why I think we're going the wrong way, and I'd much rather have wanted us to share the responsibility for it. Then, in my opinion, we better reach the goal. A senator named here, i.e. that the rules of ethics become part of everyday activities. But for jobs without location and this bill--no, I think we should much rather, instead of having an open check for Ministers to move institutions and jobs here and there, as appropriate, to discuss the criteria, under what circumstances the General Assembly would normally think it was done and how the General General wanted to approach the work and location. I'd like us to be talking about that bill here instead of an open check.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u32	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke a little of eight. The bill, and I only want to go inside. A senator better, by the way. In fact, I agree with a view that this affects a person in a strange way, that there are now many reasons for putting down cohesion committees on ethical standards of the Council and moving it into the Ministry of Presidency. Interestingly, this is quite contrary to what the General himself intends to do with his code of ethics, ordering a powerful and independent professional committee. It can also be noted that the Ministry of Presidency has had some problems with these matters, as did the letters written by the emissary of the General Assembly. I've only been wondering because this has also been mentioned, without me thinking exactly how that case works, that Iceland's not in too good a deal when it comes to the introduction of certain activities that are intended to improve morals and reduce the risk of corruption. We can call it only one name of corruption. We're getting criticism and comments for slowness in implementing European agreements and books from the European Council, OECD, and various committees. Of course, this is a bit of a partnership to me, as it were, the code and moral standards of the administrations of this country and how Iceland deals with other countries. That is why I have wondered whether it would be an idea to go exactly in the opposite direction and to promote the activities of any committee or unity that would even have a broader role in these matters than simply to look to ethical standards in the administration, to advise, and after events a possible decision is made if they are violated. In its approach, however, the Council is trying to do so to determine whether a person has been guilty of moral violations, at least to the very extent that the result is revealed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u33	A respectable president. I agree completely with what. Senator. I think we're going the wrong way. I think we should be, rather, strengthening the setting of the committee that has been working, and it may be much easier for her to improve her field of work. You also ask yourself, " If this is the way people really want to be moral in which people believe, I don't mean that they have this change in their mind to find a way to avoid working according to ethical standards, I'm not going to. What I'm saying, however, is that if you want moral principles to be followed, there's no doubt about it, it's better to have scattered responsibility for the follow-up with them on a committee like this than under the hat of one government agency that has political control. It's just a completely different approach. I think it's quite normal for a committee to do that. In comments on 8th degree. The bill is about 25. The law of law made a difference. It says that the main role of the Commission up till now was to shape moral standards in the form of ethical rules, to introduce such rules, to promote discussion and to give advice on their interpretation, to observe if there are moral standards and to cooperate with other members of the country and abroad who work in a similar field. Now that there are rules, the committee may not yet have developed them as such, they are somewhat good, they may gain weight on the other part, i.e. This cooperation with foreign and domestic parties, and the follow-up program instead of just taking the assignment. I think it's a very strange approach, and I think it's very normal for the committee to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u34	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. That's what a senator does. I've mainly been thinking about these factors yesterday and yesterday, and I'm kind of more and more thinking that it's pronounced in a management bill of the highest rank. Prime Minister. There are so many conflictes you see in there. These include the Ministry of Presidency, which handles the Management Board's work, as well as other difficulties that can often be sensitive, that there is also some moral guardian within the board. I have serious doubts about this. The Commission as an independent party, it is perfectly normal for her to have agreed to have a close consultation with an agent and a government accountant. But the Ministry of Presidency, the European Commission's point of view, is he going to work these cases with institutions under the Council? [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of opinions that don't go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u35	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A senator came in here at the end, that the European Commission's point of view was to work on these matters with institutions that hear under the Council is a very interesting point. I miss it, or some way I dealt with it, in the work of the Committee. I hope that men are willing to consider the issue and are willing to accept it again on the committee. If we assume that the reason for this is that we believe that the objective of this is to simplify our administration in some way, that is, one point of view, then we need to ask ourselves, " Is it more important to simply simplify it or to have a system that helps me to believe in the decision - making than in the other? ' I think it's more important than that. It's not a complicated system to have any members on a committee to observe this but to keep the project at one department, which encourages a review of the decision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u36	Mr. President. It's about a lot of interesting bill. However, at the same time as power is brought more contemporaneously to the Ministers it is to reduce monitoring that they should exercise it in a moral way and avoid conflicting or such, i.e. The way they handle that power is being expanded to the minister, but no matter what surveillance, except for the Ministry, it is to be reduced. That in itself is a very interesting change of direction in this regard. How is this justified, how is the bill justified? First, we note in comments on the grounds of legalization and necessity in this section. It says that the purpose and purpose of the law bill presented here is to correct any mistakes that have been made. These include the proposed general permission of a minister to determine a government facility that is under his direction - ministers had this warrant before the 2011 Law was changed, to employ only their own institutions, such as Fishing Room, etc. would be located. This power was distributed so that it would not be just one person who could take such an arbitrary decision from a successful final government. This should be moved back again. This should be a problem for those who write this bill, making it a fault, such a distribution of authority is a fault. At the same time, it says, "The ways in which you ride are equal." proposed changes aimed at increasing the flexibility of the European Commission to show that, of course, it is the flexibility of the European Commission to be able to process this alone and not have caused the spread, just have it itself, there is a flexibility -- of course, to plan its activities as considered best at any given time, and to improve information administration and professional management within the board. It's the bill's law. I can't tell you if this will improve the information. There's a lot of things I think that I don't know how the board operates to measure it. When you say those words, those are beautiful words, you need to take a closer look. At the end of this article, we find that the laws on ethical principles - these are natural beautiful words - the aims of promoting induction and follow-up with them within the board of directors. I think you're right. There is an increasing surveillance and follow-up in the Council of Directors, that is being moved out of an independent confederator outside the Board of Directors, so the Council itself is to monitor and follow by the ministers below it, and ministers, who say the prime minister who is over them, yes, this commitment should be observed by the council, the band should be inside, but should not be. It's totally the other way around here at the Council. It is a plagion proposal here that members of all categories, all sitting and listening on the Committee to Presidency, will be made in the hands of an independent party when it comes to evaluating whether members of Congress are breaking the code of ethics. More recently, the code of ethics was being discussed for so - called university senators, whose principal wisdom in these social studies came and gave a lecture. I asked them if it was possible for them to have a party or some committee that wasn't part of the Council, independent of the General in that way, to determine if members of the Parliament were breaking the code. They agreed that there was a better chance of an independent person outside. On the other hand, move it in. This feels that those who create the bill are improving, and this feels that the promotion and follow-up of the rules within the board, which are in itself correct, but this still does not promote the induction and the follow-up of the board. What Do Moral Orders Say? I want to take this protocol freak all the way. The protocols that were adopted by this law - no, let's start to see what these changes are. Moral rules are imperfect, but they are important, they have their place. The importance of ethical rules is that everyone sees what is expected of people, you have a summary of how people are supposed to behave, how they act, and that is the definition of corruption. It is important that the list remains open so that you can point it out: Hey, now this party, this minister is not following protocols, good customs, and rules. It's good to have a list like that, and it's good to be able to point to support yourself. Of course, much of this is in the law, but then we come to that: When you have a moral code that is generally agreed to live under or at least after which authority is exercised, that it is less used in the interest of selfish interests, and then it is easier to move into the next law. So on these two grounds it is very good to have a moral code. How will the bill, if it becomes unchanged, alter the code of ethics and its follow-up and its introduction to the minister? Eight. The bill says, by permission of the President: ◯25. par. The law says: The Ministry of Presidency gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of ethics in case of follow-up, provides educational training on them within the Council of Government, and monitors their purpose. In order to ensure that the work of the U.S. Marshal and State Review is performed, the Ministry shall have regular consultation with that office. The Ministry of Presidency itself, which is under the Minister and should be under observation, gives governments advice on interpretation and is for education, to instruct ministers, yes, this is how you should do it, and then you watch that it accomplishes its purpose. That's all. And what is taking place in return to 25 C.E.? as it stands now with these overemphasis and services within the Ministry to monitor the production and conduct of the Code? Well, then we have to go into the law as they are now and we were accepted in the last term. Says 25 C.E. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The Minister of Prime Minister appoints three years at the co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administration of the administrations. The Committee has a manager, an unregistered authority, one by the appointing of the management board, a representative of the government's personnel business, two representatives of the union of government officials, and two others chosen on the basis of their expertise in administrative and ethical matters. The Ministry of Presidency provides the Commission with a job position. The main task of cohesion committees is:• - And then a list of key points to be submitted to the Ministry now, not to these, but to ensure that they should educate ministers on how the code of ethics is, advice about it, and then, on some weak ground, make sure that all of this is done. However, in this case it is independent of the co-ordination committee that has these key tasks, and says, by permission of the President: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... to promote the high moral standards of public employment and to provide governments with counsel on how to prevent conflicting interests and corruption, to be sure that they are unsatisfactory. ◯b. to give a review of the rules of ethics on the basis of these laws and laws on the rights and duties of the officers of the state and to advise the government on their interpretations, c. to provide information and study in the topic fields of the Committee, to be a proprietary committee in investigating such topics and upcoming them; ▪d. to contribute to the compatibility of failure in the context of the WHO monitoring recommendations and other available information on violations of ethical principles or risk of corruption in the state, to be very good, but this is eliminated, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. to share in cooperation with member organisations, institutions and offices of the country and abroad who work against corruption in the public sector, to the most excellent. Back in development, we work not only to update things but to contact people who are working on these national and international issues. It'll all go away. ◯f. to report their activity to the prime minister every year if further measures to strengthen confidence in the government's administration are needed to reduce the risk of corruption and more effectively in the administration. The report shall be submitted to the General Assembly. - Great. They should report and offer suggestions, so this committee has tools to press and has a voice to press. These are suggestions for improving the quality of corruption. And this report is submitted to the General Assembly, so the General can discuss it and discuss it. Here is the area for pressing, pushing this into the discussion, and working harder to reduce corruption. This goes off, off, off, off. In order to ensure that the work of the Trustee of the Generals and the National Reconnaissance Commission should regularly consult with them. The Compatibility Committee may have, this independent organisation or an independent committee can interact directly with other agencies or with the council's surveillance agencies. Great. Now it's just the Ministry that can have this and that has been extremely weak, excessive support, and no initiative. And this is to do what? Yes, the aim was to increase the introduction and monitoring of ministers to the Regulation within the Council. It is clear where this course will lead us. The distribution of power is not to be achieved, and there is no further monitoring that ministers are responsible for administering the authority given to them by the nation. That's for sure. Consider what a minister's code of ethics says that were approved during the last terms after the law had been accepted. I'm gonna tap on a big one, but they've fallen out of force, and under the law as they stand today for the Council of Government to have started with the code of ethics. He's completely neglected it, and he's just said, well, that it's like this, it's not all important and so on. In the Code of Ministers, as they were approved in the last term by the then minister, it says: In 1st. is spoken of as a minister's work. It's a... it's... He uses the authority that follows the office on the basis of laws and constitutions of moderation and reasonableness, with no regard for his own interests. b. - Mr. Secretary is giving counsel in the treatment of government funds... - Good. c. The minister does not take advantage of his position or the information it provides him with special access to, for personal gain, or for someone close to him. - Very good. It's called corruption, it's the inside wind, it's got information that can be used. ▪d. A minister has in mind that his duties are primarily to the common people. - Good, good, just clean it up. Two. will be discussed in the following article. on interest relationships. ▪c. The minister informs us about financial stake ties or other relationships that can lead to conflict of interests. - It's the natural big thing about this, corruption, or as defined by the Transparancy International, using public power for special interests. That is a good definition, though this association, the Transparency International, which fights corruption, has no good model to evaluate the corruption of the country because its corruption is less in the form of payoffs and much more in the form of cousins and cousins. I've dived in that standard, and he's not particularly good at ridiculeing cousins. That is one reason why we speak so little of corruption in that standard. Let's proceed with the Minister's Code: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A minister employs it within the Ministry and the institutions who hear that interest conflicts are handled as soon as they arise and he is informed. - Nice. If you don't have an appropriate secretary, you can push this on him: Hey, mister, you're supposed to do this. In the 3rd. magazine on finance and pay: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In general, a minister does not accept private trips unless public duties are part of the program. - Wasn't Ministers on trips abroad during the days, but it wasn't taking office trips, received the fare free, etc.? I think so. Someone might be able to point it out. In Comb 4. says: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... A minister avoids anything that is likely to make him feel that he is exploiting his position for his own selfish gain. - Nice. It seems good to have this rule: Listen, this might look bad, and this might undermine the respect of this office and its importance, so let's be careful. ◯b. The minister makes sure that his conduct does not give employees reason to overlook any violations of law or moral principles. - That's good. It's good to make it clear that he's supposed to be careful, not only to take the initiative to investigate it if the staff is possibly to violate ethics, but also that he is to be careful to show that it is quite clear to his employees that it is not to be overlooked. ▪c. A minister may be equal when it comes to paying for the streets of an individual enterprise in a foreign field. - Recently much was achieved in the media talk. A minister of education has been paying the street of a company with which he had some contact, which to many people would clearly feel highly inappropriate, that there are certain interests. In the 5th. says: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The minister recognizes neutrality and the professional independence of officials and other public employees. - It's not just with the nation, it's with the officers who are under it. Good. ▪c. A minister makes a clear distinction between a group of political jobs, such as elections, and the work of his ministry at one time. He appoints employees as stewards, not assistants, not projects related to the aforementioned one. - Good. Good for employees to be able to point in this if they are being placed in an uncomfortable position. Six. discusses information and communication with the general public. It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The minister must inform the public and the media in a regular and organized way about the work of his Ministry. - Here we might add that the Ministers can't shoot off from talking to some media because they've been in a hurry. It would be good to add. However, as we have seen, some ministers become afraid of a media medium and simply refuse to speak to him, ministers who wield the nation's authority. ◯b. A minister makes an effort to make information available as the law allows... --How nice to take the initiative. ▪c. The minister does not hide information that is in the interests of the public unless the law or the public interest requires it otherwise. The minister should take the initiative to produce such information as it is in the public service. - Good, again, taking the initiative, if they're procrastinating something. 7. is a responsibility: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The minister shall cooperate if his work is considered on the part of the Generals or its surveillance agencies and when members of Congress request information on the basis of a law on Congress. - Okay, this law is something we obviously need. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir was embarrassed by a minister who was asking about possible outbacks in the side room. It is not according to this code of ethics, but this code no longer applies, and prime minister has not set new standards. I picked a big deal about the code of ethics for a minister of the last government, and the prime minister hasn't taken it up to appoint something new. No, what he intends to do in return is eliminate an independent committee that is to be followed, take initiative, and ensure that these regulations are followed, and include them in his own department with an overexploitively low authority. When that is, he can set up some code of conduct that he finds comfortable with. It's totally against what's happening in the world. This is totally against the policy proposed by the General Assembly, that an independent member would evaluate whether members of the council will violate the code of ethics and the proposal to evangelize with the support of every member of the Presidency Committee. It is therefore very important to do so. The prime minister is not allowed to get away with it at the same time to draw more power to himself and the Ministers and then to attract more power to the surveillance agency, which is to be monitored carefully for this authority, in his insides, under his wing. This is the highest. Prime Minister wants to do, and we need to stop him from doing so. This is not good for the nation, it's not good for the council, it's not good for the Ministers for themselves because it offers them much more pitiable problems, not to abuse power. We need to stop the prime minister from doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u37	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I used the time while he was speaking, and I listened to him to recall the discussion and adjustments made in 2011 when we on the General Committee went through the laws that are now being made. There were many adjustments that were made to the subject. On the committee, I sat and began to sit. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir, which is in the gym and others, e.g. then Senator Þráinn Bertelsson, who made a motion for recording recorded all the government meetings that were sadly taken out but that would have been kept in, I think. I'd like to ask about the changes they're making on page 6. current law. It is taking in wording, making changes in the important matters of government and the items to be brought to a book, etc., in the communication between ministers outside the government, within the board of directors, etc. This information is extremely important. It is important that the precise communication taken down to the national level is recorded. I can think of one recent example, for example, when it comes to dealing with members who may be buying the media. Didn't it make the public? What about the highest? Prime Minister, is he using himself for business exchanges on the media, etc.? [[The president calls.]] Is there a registration that asks for it? [[The president calls.]] What appeal does such information have to the common people? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator on these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u39	Mr. President. It's in 2. The bill of law says: "The following changes will be 6rd par. Song: a. At 2nd, Figure 1. will add to the new saying: To important administrations, it also includes: Information about a meeting that the Ministers have but, at the same time, 2 str. through 2 mg. Section 6. current law. Two. The article states that at national meetings, meetings are to be reported on as the Ministers of the Government treat the Member States as common, etc. I hadn't examined this carefully that I could tell you if everything is being inserted, and that is exactly what I mentioned in my talk about increasing information, that it is one of the goals of this bill. I don't know how well I know the management board itself, and I didn't dig deep enough into it when it's being dropped 2.mg. Section 6. but bring in something similar, add it to Figure 2. mg, whether all of this is moving or not. This is one of the reasons why I'm often on the yellow button because the devil is hiding in the fine print, hiding in that only word that was changed, which changes everything, but a man can overlook. I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u40	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator that the Devil is in the details. For example, this particular article is being replaced by the laws, such as the ◯t, which is being replaced with the short - term charms. Of course, there are these little details and details, which in many ways make this work fun and also cause some to compare sausages and laws, that both are something you do not want to see how it is made. I'd like to ask the questions right in the rest on to another subject here, using the same example I used in advance for the counseling of the Council on the interpretation of ethical principles. For example, what position do we have when it comes to giving advice to a prime minister on what information he should give about his arrival in a possible media exchange in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u41	The senator says it's a natural setback when it comes to controlling power. The minister is going to put down this independent committee, which is appointed to the people in many parts of the world, and to monitor that a minister is going to follow these regulations and not only that, but take the initiative to investigate, cooperate with parties abroad and within the country, find better ways, and even has a voice within the General Assembly and a minister to offer proposals to improve the quality of various things. It's all supposed to go away, away, away. Get that thing out of here. Get it all away from me. The minister's just gonna take it in and hire it himself, like with everything else. For these little words, as indicated in Article 4. The bill. ▪ Instead of the word "formable " in Article 11. The law comes: important. I don't know what this means. Another thing that appears in paragraph 5. ◯ Instead of the words at 1st mg, his Ministry of Ministers (U.S. Section 12. The law comes: him. What does that mean? What will it mean when it comes to performing and making decisions and when it comes to doing things? [[The president calls.]] And the initiative, who can take the initiative, etc.? It's all a question you don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for an excellent speech. He came in on 8. Article 8 of the Council of Morality, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 5 / 1, 5 / 1, 5 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 Article 5 of the Council I just want to get out of the habit before I come to an answer and get involved in the conversation that was here in the final answer. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's son, however, points out that more than half of the time, adjustments with committee proposals are made. The management board tells us: ◯4. par. put it this way: 1.mg. 1 1. The law says: For formal communication and meetings, as well as informal contact should be submitted if considered important, between recruitment of the Council of Government as well as non-participants. Yet, this interaction was not addressed at all. Administrative and monitoring committees, and, among other things, through the operation of the Commission and the Management Board. paritaprevir Birgitta's Jónsdóttir; the IMMI organization brought some very helpful comments that led to this adjustment. countering with regard to Article 1. I know why. A senator is a great amateur in general about executives and plannings and said that we were going toward the central control of the network. I share this interest with you. A senator but looks at this so that we are bringing together authority and responsibility, that responsibility and authority work together. What does it want? A senator say about that claim?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u43	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson pointed out that this has been discussed in the management and monitoring committee. I wish I had access to that discussion. I'm a deputy of the Committee, and I haven't been able to follow this case there, have I? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has. It would have been great if I and everyone else, right now. A senator mentioned this, and before we were preparing for a discussion on this subject, could have just gone on the Internet and found these tapes. Okay, senators say, "Yes, we have to be able to talk without being in politics in it and like that. " But what about the guests who come? These are guests who are giving reviews about how members of Congress should behave in the country, and we are not allowed to see it. As a senator, I can't even see it. That's very bad. We need to open this committee meeting. If so, we can be much better prepared. I'm not going after a committee meeting, like a why. A senator knows, I'm chasing issues, and I can't do that over there. About authority and responsibility. They are moving power into the centre at the same time being destroyed, kicked out, an independent committee to observe that this power is being used by responsibility. That's what they're doing. That's not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm looking at this as the European Commission's ceremony. How important it is that those making such decisions have authority to do so and are also responsible for it! If we took the fishing business, for example, there's been a lot of publicity, the staff of a Fish Room, regardless of whether this warrant had been present in the law or not, they would always have had the way of complaining to an agent and a government law that would have had to be respected. Hv. A senator entered the Convention's Code of Morality, and the core of ethics is instruction and consultation, that it is this standard. In Parliamentary Codes, there is a duty of conduct, Article 5. It's not the most important thing to do. So rather than being interpreted by a committee as to whether we will apply them or not, do members of the council cover and learn and cooperate with these practices and standards? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u45	This was answered at a college meeting that it would be better when judging whether a person is violating a code of ethics that an independent party does. If such rules can be avoided, they should not set rules for themselves. It is not a good rule for a person to set rules for himself. That's what the senators and I do. Many people have to come to that. Of course, if we are in some bullshit, the people should be able to do so, to bring in matters that we approve in a national law. The Senator seems to agree. If men want to reduce corruption defined by the use of public power in the interests of special interest, if they want to reduce neglect, and if they want to better control over all of us, they share power, they distribute it. They do not move it into the middle, where one person can make decisions and have some form of political disgrace that can be run off into an election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u46	President. I'm in my part of the board and monitoring committee, and I'd like to state that about this bill, for the discussion of the change of Article 11. The law, that the smaller part supports the changes made in the majority opinion, has been declared many times. I think it's clear, but that's all we've got to do with this. Hv. A senator is information and transparency, which is a very important factor in the era. More important, we need to be careful that the information is not so extensive and varied that people are lost in the jungle. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator how he feels about 6. This song bill, which is about the change of 17. The board of directors. Here is one more shade of organization planning. They're allowing some administrative office or something that might even be anywhere else while the government is being moved out of the Ministry of Education. How does he feel about this for the people of the country who have to use the administration? Is that a good system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u47	Mr. President. I just don't know, I haven't put myself in this party at this point, it would take me a very long time to put myself in the government as she puts herself in. I'll do it sometime, someday I'll know it well. I don't know it today, but what I stressed about this bill - I'm not on the board that's been discussed, anyway. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has had that catch - was looking at the code of ethics. I dived into the basement in this regard. However, regarding the information that the senator mentions - precisely, the important thing, and this is shown in the bill of the Government Council, information is presented by governments in a way that is understandable, clear, etc. As soon as you open information even if you don't do it that way, even if you do it so that you can work with it, people in the community who are interested in it will start working with and present it in a clear and accessible way to people. This has always been the case when data have been opened and a great deal of value has been created. The difference between הdat and data and data is that the data are not understandable. But as soon as you've recorded the data, put them in order, and set them up in some way, you've created understanding, and understanding is something that's superabundant. It's happening. It's always happened. For what was mentioned here, I just wanted to catch that ball, about recording from the Board of Directors, I think it's a good thing that it's recorded, there's always striped decisions that need to be made, etc. You can't show it right away, but the tapes should be there. Whatever the case, whether the minister's responsibilities need to be handled, or some year later the nation will be allowed to see how man was running - in the United States, for 40 years, there may be a shorter period of time, but it may lie on every side so that we can learn from it in time to end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u48	President. I think I'm correct in handling these recordings at a government meeting that I've never approved myself, that they were to be hidden in a National Archives for 30 years, could be called into criminal affairs, but otherwise it was to be stored for 30 years. Hv. A senator speaks about ethics, and now I get the confusion about them as well as so many other things, that it is not quite clear whether the code of ethics is in place for the government or not, whether the code of ethics from the last government is still in effect or not. What's the senator's opinion of that? My opinion is that those who are supposed to follow protocols need to come to them, they have to accept them themselves. You can't let them hold you back because it's something that each of us needs to agree with. That's why, like a cot. paritaprevir Ögmundur Jónsson has said, the structure of the code is far more valuable than the piece of construction itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u49	Mr. President. There was a little discussion about this in the seminary or in the college lectures the other day, and ethics are always moral. They're just in society, they're in people's heads, they're in people's minds and hearts, there's a code of ethics. What is valuable in recording and documenting them is available. You've come with a summary of ethics. I've tried writing ethics for society and stuff. First, you find ethical rules elsewhere, you need a list, and no one has the list in his head even though he has a moral code, so it's good to have the list in front of him and be able to point it out. But it is also good that when the list is out and there is general agreement on that list - such as that people should avoid conflict of interests when exercising power, etc. - they can be moved into law. It's easier to put them into law. We piranha have a bill for the law on the truth and information of the Ministers to the council and, on the other hand, that members of Congress are to avoid any conflict of interest; including that if they use inside information, in their work here, for their own benefit, it would protect prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u50	President. First, I'd like to encourage all members of the council and those who follow the council's duties to review the above - mentioned ethics talk. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson just moved in. I find this extremely important, since the exact smell of the bill here at the conference hall has not been discussed. There are, of course, very conflicting views on ethical rules, for it is even legitimate criticism that the code of ethics should not necessarily be established, but it should be the first act of any person who takes office to ensure that new rules of ethics or prior ethical standards are agreed and that there is no clumping around them or that there is some offense, as has now been by the Ministry of Prime Ministry and Moral Orders of the Office. I'd like to agree with the words of those who have discussed this particular bill, about the change in Iceland's Management Board, that here we are seeing a great return in many ways. The bill is very complex, and it is not just a matter of what has been most discussed, which is par. The bill. It's a fallback because we're disappearing into an era that was a tradition of collapse during the last term, but after a collapse a considerable deal was done in promoting more transparency and creating responsible chains within the administration. It seems to me that much of the new work, which, of course, had not been traditional, is going courtyards, unfortunately. I'd also like to refer to words, I think it's very important because I'm a great amateur, as well as the Pirats, to know exactly how the law is made, how exactly the law is changed. Some kind of system or program has to be developed, already can be done by comparing laws, but often the law columns are very complex. I remember that when the changes in information laws were made in here at the council, there were just a considerable change in wording that really changed the nature of the bill. Therefore, it is so important always to keep in mind the laws and laws, which come from the plot to the council, that the Devil lies in the details, even though you may use other expressions, you need to take special note of the details, the only letter that has been changed. For my part, I want to know what's in my law post. I want to know exactly what's in the law, simply because if no one wants to know what's in the pulse or how the law is made, we can't get better pulses or better laws. And if the pump has so bad content that nobody would want to eat it if people knew about the contents, then something major is wrong. But I like that metaphor, and I've heard it so many times before about the Three Law Bars. In order to be maintained, I don't think that this bill is to help to find out what the law is. One way to make a better law is to know about their base and spirit, but most not least about every letter, every sentence, every sentence, every sentence, and the change that happens to them, simply because one letter of law can make an enormous difference to all in the country, for everyone lives on law and has to follow them. In this context, I would like to also point out, so that if it has not been made clear in my speech, that although it is not included in the opinion of the lesser part of the management and monitoring committee the importance of supporting the change in the rest of the review of information, we would naturally consider these changes very early when it was discussed with the Ministry, as soon as this was actually presented for a management committee and observation committee, a mistake was made. That's why I noticed the mistake, that was the original reason. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, who pointed this out to me, me and others began to look into it more closely, and there was a slight change in word that would have a powerful effect if it had been maintained. That's why, President, is so important, that whenever we're changing the law that the procedure around it is careful, and we members of the Parliament are given enough time to go over all changes in close cooperation with the subversive organization, individuals and other people who are very well within the relevant category. In view of the fact that we are speaking of expressions and various laws, I feel that it is a great tendency to change the wording in a way that is difficult to see, a tendency that comes from a crisis. So, Mr President, I suggest that this work be started and the custom that it is absolutely clear to every part of the law that we receive in the Council. I think it's very important. There has been an increasing response to the demands of another world government, and I don't feel that we know what every writer in the law we're supposed to write about. I have come to realize that it is also a tendency to not completely understand in many stewards the importance of the letter of law because we live here in the law of Fundamentalism. So the law is interpreted by letters, not by the spirit of the law. This was a time of great criticism in the wake of the collapse. For example, one certain minister spoke here, the highest. Environment Minister, to soften the terms of the law, to soften the wording of the law without any reasonable explanation. What for? What is the purpose of a mild wording in the law? You don't understand ideologies like that. Then I'd like to take this opportunity, since we're talking about these little things, and say that all too common for me is that there's a lot of problems in the law and interpretation of the law. For example, the media legislation on translucency in the media is not strong enough because anyone buying a media company is not able to invest in the media. I feel the need to deal with such a much faster situation. In the event that there are defects in the law, we should respond to laws immediately. It's not that complicated. We'd have to start some sort of process instead of going into such a radical rear cycle, such as this bill to legalize the law of Iceland's Council of Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u51	President. The senator spoke of the importance of knowing what they were doing when the law was given. It sounds to me that she doesn't like the law to be compared to a hot dog, but we who put the law, we prefer to keep it so that nothing is hiding in that type, in the law; sometimes people say that there is something hidden in the sausage, yet I feel like hot dogs in general, so I'm not really worried about it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, and it's not just this bill that is like that, although it is sometimes called a textbook example of something: The main part of this bill appears to be 1. that a minister can advise a person where the institutions, where they should be located, but along with many other passengers, there are all kinds of passengers in this bill. It does, I think, and I'd like to ask why. A member of the council whether she will not share my opinion, that it is only after a very detailed discussion that shows how much is involved. I have to say, from my point of view, it's a huge flaw. I feel that mind needs special attention - this has happened before. But how does she feel about this approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u52	President. I don't like this method, and it actually fights against everything I stand for as a senator and a spokesman for an increased demonstration of legalization. I feel really bad about putting what you could call some kind of stowaway in the legal process. You've seen this a lot. I won't forget it the first time I came into the council, and someone was talking about tapeworms and other strange words about law, in which some huge pile of law and no way to monitor exactly what was in those corrosion laws. I fear that - exactly because we haven't talked about all the articles, the focus has been on Article 1. - to go through the law, as mentioned in my speech, with very many things being done backwards. I just hope that we can get to postpone this legal procedure and consider matters more carefully, especially when it comes to the code of ethics. Fortunately, a change in information proposal was taken into account, but it was only because it seemed that there were several members of the council in particular that they should always look for everything in the information law. So I think it is very important that all the other articles be discussed in much more detail. I'm concerned that it's only in general that we're accepting a law here at the Council that has all kinds of ideas in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u53	President. I think there's some difference between us, me and you. Senator. But I would like to ask her to explain to me one point she mentioned, why it should be better. She says: We need to know who wrote the law. This one or the other has written the law, and I've got a lot of frustration. It's natural senators who accept the law. We must, even if we have some complicated point for ourselves, always be responsible for what we agree. Although the Devil is involved in the details, we too need to deal with them and to get the information we need. Hv. A senator often points to things that are not quite obvious to me, but if they are explained to me, I can better understand them. Of course, I understand that it was important not to write the fishing law. However, this does not change the fact that, in the end, the Council is responsible for the outcome. If she could just explain her thought to me a little bit better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u54	President. Simply put, you are aware that LIVA and members of the financial sector, for example, have come to provide advice or write certain parts of the legislation under which the relevant bodies of the organisations fell. It has been reported that this is the case. That's why I think it's very important for you to know who's writing what if at the Council is eventually responsible for what's agreed here, at least if you're sitting on the green button. Then you can pay particular attention to that part of the law and have specialists specifically investigate the part of the law, that gray areas are not being placed in the law that could benefit those who were given advice without knowing it. In every shade, corruption can exist. I'm not saying corruption is always in shadows, but there is always a possibility. That's why I'm a great spokesman for transparency. I'm also a spokesman for bringing the actual law code more to the Generals and that we have a lot more access to it and here is the basic process of legalization. I realize that it is not possible to do all things while having such a control ship, but in the matters that are desirable in cross - political reconciliation, we should work on it to a much greater extent and have the calling work and the work around it open.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The daughter of Jónsdóttir for an excellent speech. Hv. A senator often comes to things that want to be forgotten during the discussion, are less discussed, or may not be the full scope of the discussion; c. has, for example, been a bit prominent in the discussion here. But, hey. A senator again spoke about a setback in the whole law as I understood it, that it was going back to the same place that I repeated her word; the devil is lying in the details, she said, and she likened the legislation to the making of a hot dog. I'm not going to stay with it. This is a bill for a legal adjustment in the Council of Control. I've come to the matter from the primary objective of the bill to increase flexibility in the administration, in the organization and control of human resources. If we stick to our interpretations, what do we do? The senator's return points to this in context of Article 6. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, and that's an understatement in III. section on government and co-ordination work between Ministers, etc. As far as I can see - of what? A member of the council mentioned the collapse and the report of the Allied Committee, which referred to a lack of formality - but that this is in contrast with the process of clarifying and increasing formality. Well, maybe. A senator reviewed it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u56	President. Actually, I wasn't talking about 6. Er... but it's nice to call her attention to her; I was just not talking about 6.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u57	Section 6. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u58	- Yeah. I was specifically talking about the code of ethics, that it is extremely important that the code of ethics not be dependent on the whims of one person or one office but is in formality as a basis. It is a foundation, we all agree on what is normal, at least every decade, and sometimes for centuries. Then there is a serious question about ethical standards, when they are not properly formed right now. Moral rules were set before the Ministry of Presidency during the last term, and you have not been able to find clear answers to whether these rules are valid or whether other rules of morality are yet to come. It's really bad for the administration. I'm very much in favor of the code of ethics to form them in the manner that has been presented in two primes as ill. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has proposed, which is the law of some of the factors that are subject to ethical conduct in public; I think it is very important that we take it up here in the context of all this discussion of ethics. [[The president calls.]] Moral standards, if there is no consequence of not enforcing them, are merely a question of morality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I was not discussing the code of morality as such, par. The law bill, but I was talking 2. The bill we're discussing. Hv. In his speech, a senator was so impressed, a relapse, and a collapse that there was a lack of formality here, which was part of a report by the World Council of II. In view of a return, I went to the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, which is III. Chapter 6. As a 2nd parr. In the bill, it's affecting. As far as I can see, it's the opposite of explaining and improving the structure. We're gonna go for a second. A senator is a member of a board of administration and monitoring committee, and we talked a lot about these valid terms, importance, what's important and what's less important, and all separations - as soon as we go to a great deal of law, there's a tendency for something to fall between decks if we can put it that way. We were dealing with these terms, and for one thing there was a change in the commission, and much more and less of it agreed to make that change. As far as I can see, we're increasing our formality and explaining things better by this change in the bill itself, if she could tell me how she's gonna be able to see that it's going back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u60	President. I may not have been clear enough in my case. I wasn't discussing any articles. I was discussing the whole bill. It may well be in 2 cremation. are provisions that improve. I'm not saying all this bill is ruined, there's just a lot of things I'd like us to take a better time to go over. What always happens here at the conference room, which is so good, and that's why it's very good to have discussions about complicated bills -- it often doesn't even appear at committee meetings because you may have a very specific perspective on that job and often depend on who's on the meetings and who's on the committee. So it's so good, then, to come into the conference room and have this conversation in which there are indications, whether from smaller parts or more, that have often caused me to do more research and change my mind. It's just that way. Thus, the debate in a Senate hall is of enormous importance. Now, I'm going to go back over this particular article, very detailed, review it, and see if it is part of the revised bill or improvement. On the other hand, there are things on the bill that I feel are going back, including some of them that lie to the rules of morality. I always find it dangerous to put more media control on the power instead of distributing it. The greater the pressure in power, the greater the risk that anyone, not necessarily those in power today, but someone in the future, can abuse the great authority that has come upon the party. I'm worried about such political development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u61	President. This is my second speech on this matter, and many things have been said here. In the beginning of the talk, I want to know - we've talked about passengers with the big change. g., which is the transfer of Fish Room, we've talked about passengers who are involved in this bill - and stressed that it's not as if it's gone completely past us on a board and patrol board, although maybe you could keep it from the discussion I've been doing here and even from what I've said here myself. It certainly wasn't like that, and I immediately moved the changes in page 6. The 17th bill. The law says you can install a special administrative office, take it out of the Ministry's headquarters. I specifically mentioned to the committee that I found this confusing, and I put it in context with what has been discussed that other things are being done elsewhere, such as setting up a institutions of education. They are moving administrative projects out of the Ministry, and during the last term a great deal was done in bringing special administrative projects into special institutions. I said it at committee meetings and I'm still saying that I have to go over the whole area, so I figure that it makes sense that the government in this country is quite clear. It's not for us, it's for the people, the people who need to use the administration. I think that's exactly what's going on in 6. The bill and so, based on the changes that are taking place in this educational institution, which has not yet been passed into law, although I understand that it has become a bad view, i.e. These changes are somewhat consistent with changing this for the government system, for the Ministry, so that it is convenient for the Ministry or Minister and may be reduced at all costs that are good, but it must not be taken to extremes. We must not forget that the whole administration doesn't exist for the government, it doesn't exist for the Ministers, it doesn't exist for the senators, it is for the people of the country, and therefore there must be a clear explanation for how to use this government. As a discussion of the bill unfolds, it becomes increasingly evident that the bill is all a return. There is a return to an old practice, which indeed, unfortunately, identifies some of the young people who are now in charge of the country, that instead of bringing a new and fresh view of how to manage the country, they seem to look back. It's missing when the council was more or less, let me say, and put it that way, under the company's heels, and it takes back, as it was significantly considered last night, things that were tried to do during the last term when we talked about the schedule. It was named yesterday the democracies committed by the Constitution, which they classed naturally, which are here at control, were inhibited against as much as they could. But I'd like to call it one of the greatest democracies ever made in this country, and maybe even more so, i.e. the entire constitution during the last term. I'd also like to say, now that I'm in the business, that I think we have a lot of investment in it, we have a lot of work there that I think will be involved in and will be of great benefit to the nation, hopefully not in the long run, and we're working on it. I find it remarkable, too, that in this discussion there have been some remarkable sentences. Power is repugnant, one senator said here. I don't want to say that power is repugnant because we don't get over the fact that someone has power, but it's important that those in authority have some kind of fear of that authority. They're not just to be respected, they're to be respected, I'd like to say the fear of it because that's why they might be successful. It is of prime importance that rulers exercise power, but sadly that is not what we see here today. Another senator said that democracy is a lifestyle, and that's what I like to say. That's exactly what you might have wanted young people who have been in control of the country and who haven't been in that position before, none of them, should have been thinking of rather than going backwards and having power done as someone called it yesterday. I just want to come to the end of the moral discussion. I have sometimes said that there is no need to write down ethics, and of course it's kind of said that I've mentioned that the code of ethics should be in people's heads, they should not be written down. Of course it is, but surely it is necessary to write down ethical principles. But I also think it's important that we realize that code is not a law. Therefore, moral standards must be implemented individually. If not, for example, it has been mentioned earlier that it is not quite clear whether the rules of ethics are in effect with the government, since it is clear that the current government has not established a code of ethics, and then the question has raised whether the standards established by the last government are in effect. I kind of don't think it can be like that. If we senators set up a code of ethics for this council, during this terms, I think that each assembly must accept that protocol for itself. Therefore, I think that every government, although it's the same protocol as the old government had and are in the council with which the old council was involved, it was a matter of importance that everyone, each and every one of them, should come to, and say, "Yes, for me, I accept this. Code is not a law. There may be some part of a legal code, but it may also be careful not to turn into laws of things that cannot be replaced. There's a lot of difference between law and code. Anyone who intends to follow some moral code must accept it himself, even though he may not have built it himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u62	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an interesting and informative speech. I'd like to have a place to say. Because she is a member of the committee who has considered this matter and thus knows much more about the discussion that has been there than I do. I find it extremely interesting, as well as an important point, to consider who the management board is. I just think it's a basic factor, and I wholeheartedly agree that it's not for the officials but for the people of the country. This was shown in the case of a man. The senator of the 6th C.E. the bill we're talking about is confusing. I agree with that, and I can't see when I read it where this change is being made, i.e. I find it hard to imagine the final one that comes out of this change. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether she thinks it's 17. g., as it stands in current law, is better, than it says, by permission of the President: The secretary shall organize his ministry by dividing it into offices and each office shall be directed by the manager of the Ministry Director's Office. I'm asking if it's just better not to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u63	President. I thank the senator for the question and speculation in this regard. Yeah, I think that's the way it is. Does not the saying that often home is better than going? If we don't know where the changes are leading us - we can't take them to the extreme that we never change anything, I'm a woman of change, and I'd like to change, and sometimes I think it's good to be a little cold to change. But sometimes the conservativeness is better, for example, in this case. The Council has just changed, 2011 has been changed. At that time, people were dying to change the law, which had been given in 1970, so I thought it was all right to go over 40 years of age. However, the current law has been given in 2011. I think it's better to be at home than to go on in this subject, and especially if you do. A senator read a paper and comments on this article, which is a long and large subject and, in effect, an incomprehensible, respectable president. Men have entered a ruling committee and some other things. I don't think changing this at this point is a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u64	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers and have to agree that I'd like to see some changes, but I'm not particularly impressed with the changes because of the changes; there has to be a purpose, we have to be moving somehow toward a better control system. I'd like to come up with this later, but I'd like to come up with a little bit of the ethics, because I think it's also an enormously important matter, just because the public trust and confidence in the government in Iceland is not very much. I think that's just an understatement. I don't think that's good. I think it may have bad consequences, both in the short term and in the long run, because I'm afraid this can undermine the faith of people in democracy. Therefore, I feel that it is vital that we discuss how we can gain that trust. I completely agree that ethics are not laws. Trusting in the government requires active action to ensure and demonstrate the resistance to corruption. It is not enough for all to agree that corruption is bad. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether she agrees with me in that it is a bad thing to bring it to one person, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister, to use the authority to interpret and give guidelines on ethics. Must we not have this on a broader foundation than to hide it in one man's hands, no matter how great a virtue he might otherwise have?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u65	A respectable president. I agree with that. This is an important matter, and I think it's been discussed earlier in this discussion that one of the eight or nine volumes of the major study report was just about moral matters, if you don't mind me saying. So it certainly is of utmost importance, and it was being answered when it was transferred into the Council of Government in 2011. I think the Senator will come up with something that matters to me. At the end, she says, " Isn't it bad to move this over to one person or one person no matter how good that person is? ' That's exactly what's important. It doesn't matter if there is a prime minister here who had a halo, it doesn't matter because someone follows. We cannot set laws and say that we do not trust this prime minister to have things like this. It doesn't matter, Mr. Honorable President. What matters, when we set the law, is that we unplug them and that we put it into the hands of one person to supervise a moral code - without further advising how to do it, like one guest to appear before the committee pointed to - is also incomprehensible. There's a lot of things wrong in this bill, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I pretended you didn't come to the empty cabin when these things got past you. Senator. She and I were involved in the legislation during the last terms here being changed, i.e. current European Commission legislation from 2011. It was actually very fun work, and this morning when I went through the process that in the World Committee, there were very good discussions about these laws and, of course, people were looking at the General's study report and what went wrong in the leading tide of the crash when we were going over it. The committee proposed a number of adjustments. On the other hand, what is positive when you consider the discussion at the time that it is documented, both in the highest speeches. Prime Minister and then in the report with the current law, it was empty - speaking at the highest level. Prime Minister, at that time. paritaprevir Davíð Sigmundur, son of Gunnlaugsson, because the criticism of the transfer of power from the authority of the law to the Commission is now just empty because it is now exactly being done. I want to pray. A senator describing his experiences with whether this is an incredible hypocrisy when people witness in this discussion that they did not mean anything by the criticism that was presented at the time, that is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u67	A respectable president. Yes, it was a very interesting and remarkable work being done on the board of directors when we went through the Constitution. That was a lot of work. I remember that the committee had strong opinions and opinions, and I also remember that we were, I felt, at times in conflict with the government, the officials wanted it somehow, we wanted it to be different. We had to fight for it a little bit and, of course, get our way. Sometimes it was said that we were going too fast, that the officials were not considered conservative enough, or that they wanted to hold something different about it. I remember when I've been reviewing it right now when this bill came in, when I was concerned with the tension the committee had with the government, who were naturally responding to the bill as it was presented. That is why I felt that there were some facts in this bill that the officials were taking back their weapons. Of the hypocrisy of the hearing, which was about the Board of Directors then, yes, certainly, it was a natural child play, for it was said that the prime minister was to be replaced by the entire Ministry, and they said that it was being brought all things into the hands of prime minister. Now, though, we have a prime minister who has legalized the law to bring organizations, to do this, to govern moral principles. [[The president calls.]] It's just a joke, a respectable president, or worse words could be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u68	A respectable president. In my second answer, I would like to ask about the idea that jobs and institutions can be taken anywhere, and I would just like to use the example of the general man I have served for six years. You will soon sense in this work that you are never home from work, that you are basically at work. It is such a job that it is actually more than just a job. This role once you've taken it when you've never finished. It's not that people take vacations to the world and are free of the things involved in this work. You are always online, always using your phone, answering questions, or having some contact. The latest technology in Internet connections, social services, and so forth has made the work big changes. I think that as of today, we are in much more contact with voters than before, and in general, there is much more to be accomplished than ever has ever been done. That is why you realize that the work outside of what happens here in the hall can really be done anywhere. Of course, that's the same way when it comes to society institutions. There is nothing that keeps the workers from being located anywhere in the country. Therefore, the idea that a minister can decide, as if there were some transfers, is to convey such an old - fashioned thought to institutions. It may have had some value at the end of the last century when the field readings were brought up to Aclin, when some work was actually being done. But is it not just a matter of time before humans can do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u69	President. I'd like to name a part first, that's a good word. I agree that being a general is more of a role than just a regular job. We're not out of work, though they say, "Have you come on vacation? I mean, it's always this, you don't stop being a general even if you go on vacation. That's it. You may encounter fewer meetings. I still think it was always like this. This is a role we choose for ourselves. I think that technology has changed how to work, how to work at home, and so forth, but I think that it has always been, at least as far as I remember it has always been to be a general, rather than to work normally, as it were. I wholeheartedly agree with the senator that it is old - fashioned to tear up an entire institution. Besides, that won't be necessary. There is no need, as the senator points out. You can have a base here and there, and people can live where they want to. A respectable president. This method is also so disrespectful and that the method that is now being called for is only one minister. There is so much disrespect for people and for their families to move them from place to place. It's been said here, because some people left Fishing House, that one of the big traumas in people's lives is about to lose their jobs. There is also another source of stress in people's lives - they are moving around, even when people are willing and willing to do so, much less when taken up with overforcing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u70	Madam President. Well, like the ancient poet, I give a talk to Jón at the Brusa Station. There have been many talks on a bill sometimes referred to as the fishing bill, but I have allowed myself to call it the power-employing bill. Although I am in opposition to many aspects of the bill, I would like to say in the beginning that I agree, in effect, with the fundamental issue that remains unsound in the bill, which is the goal of trying to make the country more righteous for the exchange of jobs that exist and exist within the public sector. I think that's a goal we all agree with. The talks presented here have all suggested that you are willing to make a considerable effort to move your jobs abroad or to make sure that the percentage of public jobs is located there. In this regard, I agree with almost everyone who has mentioned this topic earlier. The person who first gave a bold speech and spoke to the opinion of the greater part was sharp. paritaprevir The armoures of Níelsson's Brynjar - who, as I have sometimes pointed out, is one of our foremost legal reasons, because he is the former president of the law firm - and one of the things he said, and I was absolutely agree with him, this very important thing. I have a past in this case, Madam President. At one time, I was a government officer who decided to try to arrange for institutions to be exported to land. At that time, the work was set up, and it was prepared for a report. The government, Davíð's son Oddsson's first government, concluded that seven or nine organizations could be taken ashore. The Ministry I conducted then, the Department of Environment, which was at the low rate at the time, contained three organizations that were thought to be possible for the move to land. It was the hunting director, it was a Organization, and there were geologic readings. I thought that, as many young advisers are doing, the Minister should only be in charge, and when the government had assigned me to attack this project, I got started and started at the smallest agency. It was the director's office. I felt that this office would be exported to the country, the main mission of catching foxes and minks, and few of them were here - perhaps just a few born near the General Assembly Hall. But no fun, it seemed like a lot of National Council. Nevertheless, the poor young minister took this to the point that he was almost half - dead as a minister and survived much. I remember that the advance group, which is, can be said, the main source of the bill we're discussing here, proposed for a special research committee to investigate the office of the then Environment Minister. However, he had neither the opinion of an agent nor the verdict of any court nor the authority of the ruling authority that made this claim. However, I did not let loose. I began my next project, the geologic reading process. They succeeded, and the situation was so great that I gave up, gave up the night, stopped it. At the time, when I gave my report to the Generals, I said that it was my opinion and this government, which arose after a discussion in the government, that this was not a possible way and that it could not be carried out by the government that it had decided, to rip up a relatively short time and move abroad. The reason for this resistance was given by the personnel of the institution, and when we considered that matter, we concluded that they had the right to measure. It would be very difficult to take an entire organisation's staff and to move a man and a mouse out into the country, away from the return that had previously been considered to the homework. True, from the discussion that took several years, certain policies arose. In the meantime, it was the minister of the forward party who took up the thread that I broke and eventually moved soil readings with a great deal of effort on Aclin. Following this and during the discussion, I think we can say that the Council was a complete success, and all those listed here came to the conclusion that it was indeed the right goal to take jobs abroad. Second, they also came to the conclusion that this way was not, except in exceptional circumstances and with a very long approach, the correct method. They concluded from this tour all I think it took three or four years for me to conclude that the best way to get jobs out of the country was to build branches in the country, transport workers there, and plant these branches, and, at the same time, establish the roots of these communities. This was done, and the man I thought then managed to succeed - even in the best of days, he was able to combine the benefits of both Ronaldos and Messir when he ran through the defenses of the opposition at the time I was part of - was the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, once the president of the Independence Party, then a sea chief minister. He started this very thing by setting up a few branches of Fish Room. As a result, branch offices from Merro have developed small groups of scientific and services that have grown in the shelter of these two institutions. As a result, other organizations have exported their activities into the country. I'll give you the tax, for example. This has given us a great deal. For this is the way. I suppose it is the way that men should do in this matter. There is also another method, and there is work without location. As a matter of fact, I was the senator who then made a pact proposal at the time, in a position of government, probably in 2006 or 2007. It was controversial in its own time. However, it was reviewed here, and there was a controversial debate over that subject in the halls of the Generals, and in the end it was agreed in all categories. A job without location, according to the approval of the Generalis, was a way that all classes agreed to be used to get jobs in the public sector out of Reykjavík. It went well until I became a minister of foreign affairs, thought to give in and make more use of this route to get work into various institutions, which were growing below my hand, especially the branch office of Eastern, Akureyri, and Isafjordur. This was limited because one of the workers who wanted to do a job without a location was in Reykjavík and naturally felt that he could extract it from his home country. So we disagreed, but he sought the opinion of the emissary Generalis, who agreed with him. It could be said that at that time, in 2011 or 2012, it was far less difficult to take the route that we had been using for some time to bring jobs into the country. This is what I wanted to say to explain my point of view. I've been doing this, and I may not have the most beautiful past of this, but I learned from my experience. The Senate back then learned from my experience, and Guðmundur Bjarnason's son, who later adopted the same thread. And I thought the council had reached a conclusion. But as I have said here in a few words under this discussion, it is so that the General General lacks historical records and often reveals, and especially in this case, that the Ministry is lacking as well. We've seen the same scratch we've seen as the government in this case. This bill, which I have called the power - consuming bill, but sometimes called the fishing bill, has the sense of purpose, as it seems to me, to send some sort of relief to a decision I don't even know which is still active, but what. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson might be able to tell me about it later. What's the point of the bill? Is there a general legal warrant for a minister in order to determine where the institutions were located in a foreign location than they were originally from the soil? Or is it primarily -- and if you don't mind me asking why. paritaprevir Empression of Níelsson, who is prominent in the majority opinion - to substantiate the destruction of the decision at its height. A seafood and agricultural minister who decided to move Fish Room from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri? Now we know that the highest. A minister has retreated twice, first from his original decision, changed it from his decision to be a plan, and when I last knew that he had stopped moving but said that he could possibly become in 15 to 20 years. Is the point of this bill and 1st paragraph. the chief reason to support him in it and give him the legal authority to do so, and thus to pay for future charges? I noticed that when the U.S. Marshal gave his opinion, he did not assume the legitimateness of his decision but pointed to the Supreme Court. However, a minister, after much improvement, thought I, spanked him, carefully examining the legal support he had for the decision. I'm thinking he hasn't had anything, that's why. paritaprevir Emessur Níelsson's son, who's headed here to help him with that. And I have to say, if there's any cause, I'm very sad about it. It gives me further support to my claim that this is a power - seeking bill. How did this come about? It was the highest. A seafood and agricultural minister who was the founder of this decision? I doubt it. Who introduced the decision? It was the highest. The prime minister, who moved north in Akureyri, introduced a decision regarding the transfer of Fishing Room in his day. I believe it was primarily of the Personistic interests of the highest. The decision made by the prime minister was not the highest. A seafaring minister who was its founder, only less so. I told you before. Brynjar Níelsson's armor had a fine story for the committee party more than I believe he is with the most clear men when it comes to the legal reasoning in this hall, however, I believe that there he was scraping on the leg and a great lack of reason for the radical changes he foretold. I have to say, it's unusual for you to be as legal as ever. A senator should present the arguments he had here in his committee party. For example, I don't like it when it comes to it. paritaprevir Níelsson's armour described how the committee had discussed this law very closely - the most controversial provision we sometimes call the fish - room arrangement - that is a requirement for the general minister's general authority to state the location of the institutions under which he will not be legally understood by another law - he gave a detailed description of the views presented in these materials at the committee's meetings. That was especially two viewpoints based on a talk given at the time. A senator if he would now take the time to listen to me. First of all, it would not necessarily be possible for government agencies to be located in Reykjavík, and in particular assigned to develop technology and geographic location would be less important than before. I completely agree with that attitude. Senator. Second, what said? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, I'll rightly agree that the committee had established that there was no default for a minister to determine the location of the official institutions one side. He himself said that since there is a very important point for the management of the institution, it was very uncertain in this matter. That was a good time. A senator himself who said that uncertainty would affect the staff, and second, it could limit the competitiveness of an institution and will have been at the competition of qualified workers. I was surprised, however, that during the course of time. A senator who was prominent in the majority opinion had conscientiously reported these matters in his speech, and he did not tore them up any further. He did not argue, nor did he object, except that he referred to a court case that involved land measurements. Having thus tore up opposing viewpoints and spending more time to tear down the views against them than this, he took courage just to say that, however, the greater part of the belief that this authority was supposed to be there. What interests me, too, is that. A senator does not take the initiative to build the authority of the minister in these matters, at least by making adjustments. But in order for everything to be done, it became very clear to him and to them that the more part thought that the words that came from an agent would be looked to. If you'll allow me to quote the words that came from the lips. I'll do it. However, the more part considers it necessary for such decisions to be careful with the regulations on the topic of business administration, in connection with the findings of the Council's agent on the complaint of the staff of Fish Institute for plans for the Agency's move from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri. I find it interesting that this is not to be tore up in the committee opinion anymore. This is because, of course, the Minister is given a very severe penalty in the opinion of an agent, who says that it was not compatible with the duties of the Minister which leads to the law of the European Council of Government to refrain from receiving counseling within the Ministry or in other ways. A manager says, under these circumstances, if a minister is going to make such a decision, he must seek advice on it either within or after the events outside the agency. It also makes a clear point. A minister has neglected his research duties and, considering this, is creating a warrant that is next open, I would have intended to do so. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson was to take the initiative to make adjustments that made some restrictions on this authority. In other words, I don't think it's enough. The members of the greater part merely refer in a relatively simple way to the opinion of the emissary of the Generals. We have to assume that the Minister's nature is human, bitter, and that there comes up men, young and valiant, who believe that all authority from God is given to them as soon as they lean their backs into the minister's chair and may have a measure of power. Then I just want to guess from my own experience that my view of power as a young minister was far more primitive than the attitude I have developed from long experience, so I would think I would be a much softer authority now. But because my time is running out, I wanted to say that I was disappointed. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson over his not at least because of the conviction and concern that I know he has for the law, for some kind of scourging, fence, in this bill, if he is to make it happen. I want to finally say that I think that's why. A senator made such a point of action because he has no faith in it himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u71	President. Of course, that is especially the case. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, who is to be answered, is not good if I come here and covered. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for a good talk, especially the personal reference and an overview of the history of these subjects, mentioned in the preceding part of the debate. I noticed that he felt that it was cool, as he mentioned, between nearly all political parties and politicians to take jobs ashore, to get jobs ashore. I have to say, I'm not quite so sure this peace is there. I think the peace that exists and is the fundamental issue of this matter is that it is worth considering the whole country. I think in our time the question is, not about getting up or moving them from one area to another, but from one area to another, just what the senator mentioned, making it possible for vegetation to spring from place to place in the reasonable context of public institutions or their branches in some way, in business and in the field of teaching, that is, more fortunately growing at that time, a quarter of a century ago, in a talk. Senator. I want to ask him about this. If most people agree to move to land, is the purpose of strengthening the settlement, or is it the purpose of developing the interests of the administration and using public funds? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u72	President. What I have learned from the talks given here have been given to the majority of speakers, not all, speaking in a way that they understand justice and fairness, which means that the third of the people who live outside the capital area also get some of the jobs that fall into the public sector because the management department is a part, or I see, of the interior. We want to strengthen the country, strengthen the region by strengthening its infrastructure. That's one way to do it. I can't quite see that there's going to be more money to be paid, even smaller, to run jobs in the public sector in the country. I've had experience with that. I've run institutions that have had a considerable number of employees in the country, it's given us a lot of time. What was clearly stated in my speech is that I don't think that it should be taken up, torn up by roots, and moved to shore. But I believe that having branch offices in the country can also serve to expand and expand their ministry, there are people who need to be assigned to the same institutions. We've been here for years to discuss the need to install a more efficient payment on various public systems, such as those under state insurance, government agencies, or other institutions. So I don't see any particular contrast between this, fairness, between it and a good deal of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u73	Yes, I would ask, in all my kindness, because what I have found sacred to this story in 25 years and actually longer is that the reason for the move of the institutions to land - is that here at council they are offering suggestions or making decisions on how to establish jobs in the country, public work at the cost of work in Reykjavík and around the region, negative in the case of Fish Office - is to further the rest of the capital area of the modern capital, which is of course a major political policy but often built on a local foundation without taking into account what really suits the country, the whole area of Reykjavík and its neighbors. I think if men had the opportunity to review these experiments, this is so that the settlement grew much less than expected and that the changes in general were not in the interests of the administration, I don't mean those who work there but rather benefiting from the administration of national administration and with the reasonable treatment of funds that we expect to be employed in the administration board. That's why I'm asking. There are two views, and they conflict. However, I agree with the senator that there are ways to this end. The reason for this bill seems to be an extreme route in another direction, the one that began to disappear from just 1990 during the time the senator quotes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u74	You're right about what you're doing. A senator believed that the way this bill is being torn down is the way I thought it had long since been turned down, that both classes that had long ago stood for it, as other classes have concluded that this was not an effective way to expand their jobs on land. But I do believe that there is a reasonable basis for innovation, especially in the public sector, to be out in the country. I believe by means of technological advances and changes in communications there is no difference between working in some jobs in the country, just like here in Reykjavík. If I may be able to trace more from my own personal experience as the executive director of the Commission, I've taken the premeditation of a government agency where employees do jobs, in effect, daily jobs in the Ministry than do living in distant lands. It went very well. So I don't see the reverse between doing jobs in the administrations in the country and the views as strong as possible. Of course, a senator does not want humans to have the special goal of doing so at the expense of their work. But my main focus is my bitter experience of the 20 years ago that this is the wrong way. She doesn't get up and she hurts so much. It upsets many lives. It is the viewpoint that I have felt on the increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u75	V.E.G. President. Because of what? paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson now spent most of his speech - one third - discussing me and my speech, I'd like to answer only because of this; there was so much that happened. Senator. [[Third.]] It's not a power-abundant bill. This is merely a case of general legislation for transfer to institutions due to the Supreme Court's court on land measurements. There, the Supreme Court says that a clear legal authority is necessary. Such a decision has always been viewed as a normal part of a minister's administrative authority, as it has always been viewed. Then this judgment comes, and it is felt right to respond by granting this universal legal right. This does not change that even if this legal authority is legalized, then a minister cannot do anything. As I have said many times in my speech, and in my writing, authority is difficult. A minister must still take into account other principles that apply. There needs to be a moral point of view. Such a decision needs to be prepared. It's not that way. A minister will decide with a single pen line that 70 people will be moved tomorrow, because other laws also apply, that doesn't matter. There must be a moral point of view, and the situation needs to be taken into account. It's hard to tell exactly what it says in a song, because it can make a contrary conclusion: Well, this incident isn't even true, so we can do this. [[The president calls.]] So I think this has been explained very well in the court of the Supreme Court and of the Generals' agent, so it really is not complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u76	Hv. A senator claims that it is generally agreed that it is part of the minister's general authority to make a decision on the location of the institutions. I thought of '94. I was thrown back with it out of this pit of this council, which, of course, was different then. It was quite clear to the council then, when they reached some sort of agreement on the development of the case, that the council would have to be able to express their opinion of that matter, that is, and after a long march and the strong argument I had then, I concluded that it was most natural in such circumstances. And I think so, too. I just want to let myself, which is possible because I'm not as bombed as a dog. A senator, to doubt that this is a wise and self - determination. It may well be that in some legal office here in Reykjavík or even outside Reykjavík, this is something that is taken as a public part of the reality. Not here in these sales, I'll let me doubt it. Other than that, I wonder: Is there to be an all - out approach based on high - tech legal methods? I mean, why don't we build on experience, political experience? What is the experience of all two of these losss from the beginning of this matter? Why does it want to be? A senator like this coming to minister? We'll see how it's done. I mean, it's also important to people's lives, and that's what we need to pay attention to. That's what they say. Senator: Well, you must follow the rules of the general administrative court. But it's just not done. [[The president calls.]] Let us then state in these laws what are the perplexing factors, such as the need for an assessment of consequences, costs, etc., which was not done in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u77	V.E.G. President. I believe the location of institutions hearing under Ministers is part of a general government warrant. A minister has many powers and can make decisions that are far more important and more important than the location of an institution. We're not gonna take it off? I can understand the view that people want the council to do this. The Senate can always decide where the institution should be, and in some cases it does. However, it does not work that every time you change your location or part of it, you need to go to the council. The changes that have been made and carried out and done have only been successful. No one's complaining about them today. But it is true that when someone is to be torn up by an entire institution, he must be very careful and say: " Tomorrow you will go somewhere else. The Supreme Court has already said that this procedure is not working. The matter of viewpoints needs to be taken into account. The size of the procedure should be considered, how it can be performed. How many depend, what is a big change in position and condition? I have no doubt that all of this is important. These are all the things that matter. It's actually drawn up, and I think it's much simpler to have it just like that rather than just nail it down accurately in the law and limit it, or aim to what the Agency is big or something else. We cannot avoid a particular assessment at any given time, since the law can never take into account all the circumstances that exist at any given time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u78	Madam President. Hv. A senator certainly knows this far better than I do, and maybe I haven't been in these sales long enough; at least I began to think, " What are these cases? ' A senator refers to the situation and says that it went so well? I just don't remember them at all. I remember the examples I encountered. I remember the example of Guðmundur Bjarnason. I just don't remember any institutions that have been exported to shore except one on Selephoss, who was doing very well. [[Up front.]] Well, geologic reading wasn't going well, it was a 15-year war. [[Up front.]] Yes, that may well be the case. But it was a 15 - year - old war with employees, and I ended up thinking that all of them were finally in another safe house, so you can't claim this. But of course it does. A senator's confidence that he is speaking here with a man who can't remember. But I remember. I can only remember one institution where it was successful. Hv. A senator points to the Supreme Court on the National Assessment and lists the issues involved. Yes - what was the ultimate goal. A seaman minister on them? Nothing, so I don't give much for it. That's why I say, if there are rules or laws that a minister should follow, it's better that the law on which the pioneers need to be laid. Other than that, this is a very different approach to me. Senator. Hv. A senator believes that it is enough to give the minister a warrant and then he should just act like a man. But the experience is that this is not the case in real life; ministers do not behave like men. Just as in this case when it is clear that my decision is made by the highest degree. Prominently, prime minister in view of his interests in the district. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u79	V.E.G. President. I was the head of the minority opinion of the Directorate-County Board, and I was originally given 30 minutes to present my case and 15 minutes in the second speech, and now I have five minutes to go. I figure I'd need an hour to explain my point of view to this important case, but it called 12 talks, twelve five minutes speeches, it's unacceptable to have to break their case into such small units. Many remarkable points have been made in a discussion that is reaching out in time. Perhaps it is primarily a matter of delinquency. There is a change of viewpoint, new dimensions, and the attitudes of many have been changing accordingly. I'm just talking to myself, who, though a great deal had gone through this case, and I reiterate what happened yesterday's discussion that I'd wanted our opinion, which I'd done, more extensive than it was, and most notably with regard to Article 3. The bill that handles committees within governments, but with this bill it is being legalized. Many interesting things have been said during this discussion. We heard it this morning or this afternoon, before the break, how the former minister and current senator heard it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, explained how she had changed her attitude when moving to state institutions and experience. He stepped there on a case that I knew very well. It was a suggestion made in his reign as environmental minister to transfer the geologic readings from Reykjavík to Ak Aranes, and he said that he had given up on that matter. It speaks of unnecessary modesty, I believe, because the failure of these transfers on the part of the minister was a argument made on the table of the union. I had a meeting at the Ministry, or whether they were held in a country's country, with all employees and ministers and with his advice on how the case was covered, and then they discussed their decision. It became the fact that at least at this time, the Agency was moved in a way that had been proposed. Another reason why this discussion has been interrupted is that people want to be careful. It is important what we say in our public talk about such primes. It may be less important what I say as a minority in the case than the leading speaker of the greater part, or whatever. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, because a series of bills and what is said by the performers of the matter at the Assembly Hall, is often used as a legal solution. This was considered in the debate on the part of the majority opinion, okay? paritaprevir Emess Níelsson's son, that we must look into circumstances when we interpreted the law on authority to the minister of the council, and he reviewed this a few words. And it is important to develop this discussion as well. But I didn't hear any better in his language than that he had doubts that this was a good enough job in a paper with the bill as it is now, which would be a reason to take it in and examine it from the bottom of the ground. I would also like to discuss the flexibility in public administration and various aspects of this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u80	President. You're right. A senator says that five minutes is not a long time in this symposium, and in fact, it's a lot shorter if you're in the chair yourself than if you're listening. There's something you learn here. At the end of his talk, there was trouble. A senator entered the flexibility of the government business. There is a suggestion in this bill that workers can be transferred from institutions to the Management Board or vice versa. Now it's allowed to transfer employees within the Board of Directors. The funds of public employees were not very positive about this change, and in our minorities, we, as it says here, draw attention to these views. Now was the time. A senator in his former life, as it were, president of the BSRB, and indeed in this life too. I'd like to ask him if he could go into a little more of this flexibility, which is, in my opinion, an option. I understand that we have to listen to our unions, but on the other hand, I think a certain flexibility in the government must be an improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u81	V.E.G. President. I agree completely with this. In itself, as we examine the bill's text in this regard, there is nothing about him checking from my point of view, for I am a candidate for flexibility in the administration. This can be about the interests of the industry, the Agency and the employee. It says in the bill that men should be sought after not only their managers but also their employees. What humans have warned, and there is experience, that the employee on the other hand, and the manager is not at the same table, is not equal to the right side. The danger is this, and there the experience clearly speaks - I know of it as being an president of a class society that has often involved such matters - that people are naturally pressured to save money without being interested in it. If there were such a member of the court, a manager and employee, I wouldn't have worried too much about this. But I believe that it should be the focus of changing the management environment of the Commission and the administration in general to strengthen the trade union unions in the introduction to the staff's rights. Sadly, in recent years we have seen very ugly examples of people's rights being trampled on. I remember this right before the Senate ended the first year of this government when a proposal was made to cut jobs at the Council, or a contribution to the Council of Government, about 5%, was just to be initiated. I know many very ugly examples of it - very ugly examples of it - how people were trampled on. It is this, and these examples scare.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u82	A respectable president. This is very thought - provoking, and unfortunately, the employee is often less powerful in such examples. I can see that an employee, if asked to move from an institution at the Ministry something like that, sees, in fact, unable to say no; that he thinks, " Then I can face the possibility of being sent away,'or I'm put on the corner and so on. Sadly, such conversations leave people unsure. That's what they say. Senator: Class unions need to be strengthened so that unions can then stand clearer with employees. Then you must understand that it may be a matter of standing with an individual employee for some time, not as the senator said about performing the geologic readings - the conversation between those who had the power and the staff to do things differently. How does the senator imagine that unions can fit in with some employees? If an individual employee is supposed to transfer him, how can the union enter such a case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u83	V.E.G. President. That's a very interesting discussion. What I want to do when it's like this -- and I repeat that I'm a man of flexibility, I think he's good, and I'm also critical of things many call professional during employment, but I'd like to look at the mental factor there too. At the same time, I'm able to see that in the past, an impersonal party needs to come up, and that's a representative of the union. When people are being fired up or given a reminder, they have been, in contracts and traditions, that the individual has the right to represent the union. For example, I could imagine that under such circumstances the arrival of the trade union would be assured, that such individual talk would guarantee, or contributed to, all the way; we can never guarantee anything final in this life, that the court would be equal, that men were discussing it on an equal basis. If it were done, I'm not at all against this text, I'm not. I think my aim is right and good if things are handled legitimately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The attitude of Jónasson's son before the talk and agrees with him that I think it is important to discuss Iceland's Council of Government that we can create an environment that is flexible, but it also needs to be solid and in the system so that people know what they're doing and how they're doing. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator for the discussion here matters, i.e. interpretation of what members of Parliament and those who may be involved have said about the matter. There's one thing I'd like to say at the moment. A senator. We were both ministers in the last government, and then we were adopted and employed by the term Ministerial Committees. It was open, so the Ministerial Committee was to be appointed on certain matters. The experiment was primarily to try to develop some way of handling matters so that, if necessary, information, memos, and such information could not be offered in a government, unless it was formal, written, could be attributed to what would have been done if necessary. But here are two committees, i.e. Ministerial Committees, State and Economic Affairs. It's obviously taking the tops out of the government, i.e. On the one hand, prime minister, economic and financial ministers, these committees are to be led or covered. The question is, Can this possibly affect how the work is in relation to other committees, that it has been ruled out in some way, I realize that the text does not exactly do so, but there may be certain dangers? Second of all. What you were afraid of back then, and we had to give special consideration to it, i.e. that some cases are not discussed in the government but only on the Minister's Committee, discussed, and since the rest of the government members know nothing about the matter because they are not considered a reason to be discussed, they have been discussed in the committees of the judicial committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u85	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. A senator when he refers to the importance of building trust and firmness in the administration, and thus, changing laws requires that we take our step to the earth with caution. Second, take what. A senator whose view is that the discussion here is important because the discussion is used as a legal solution. I reiterate what I'm saying, it may be less important than the speakers for the bill, but in the end, we have a law and then we have an understanding of the law that we are, which is the Congress. We are all part of the council, and we should be as righteous as it is. With the Ministers Committees, I agree with what I feel is in my thoughts. The senator's experience with the Ministers' Committees, although the goal was to contribute to the increase of cost, etc. and more targeted, I felt that I was not good and that I had no chance of increasing transparency. In addition, there is now the legal adjustment in which such committees are expected to be legalized, not in current laws, but in the lack of the basis and explanations of it. We do not have a multiorganized government, but we are trying to make decisions in small units on the contrary. This is unclear in the lyrics of the Law and in the explanations of the law. I think it would be important to take the matter and examine this ground much better than we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u86	V.E.G. President. That's exactly the way it is. It may be missing the background. What does that mean? The original natural idea was that it would not have been properly designed what was discussed for economic failure and therefore for the purpose of resorting to decisions and decisions and how they were made and so on. it was not even a good meeting order from a certain meeting. In that sense, you are very familiar with the fact that there is a rule about what is written and how. True, there is another law in this law that is being changed from formal to important, and it can also be asked: What is behind it? But there is reason to wonder, too, that other groups are appointed. For example, I have wondered a lot about the eco-efficiency group appointed as a government counseling group and has links even with assistant minister, and nothing wrong with the existence of such a group and offering suggestions and such things, but I often feel that the economic group has come to some conclusion. The General has never discussed the results of this economy group. It is only when the matter comes in as a new matter or something, but at the same time there is a list that we both know, which came into existence as an idea - it has suddenly become a suggestion. I'd like to hear the point of view. It's the same with regard to Article 1. What makes this bill a little difficult during a discussion is, What's the point of that? Why does this bill exist? Is it really so that it is just the fishing room that is being tried to solve in some general way, as Genesis shows. ..... by opening the warrant that a minister can hire an institution and that's the only purpose? The other is anything that is taken along to enhance the appearance of the bill. You may be suspicious and feel uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u87	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator on the central point he makes in his case that it is very important that the work being done by the administration and politics be clear, all aspects of making important and important decisions. All of this should be transparent. We are gradually moving into such an environment. We've been doing this in the past few years. We haven't gone all the way in that material. What I find the worst part of this bill now, as well as the material factors we disagree with and have made comments, is how bad things are. This, for example, applies to the Ministerial Committees. They are poorly established, the basis for these changes. Please refer to that in the bill and the review of 3. ... I suppose, considering this aspect, that the experience from the last term of the Ministerial Committees is good. It is not said that it was good, but it is referred to in experience, and it can be understood from the expression that it was good. In view of who? Officials at the Ministry of Presidency? I'm just asking. I feel that when it comes to making these changes, the legal committees that many people had doubts about being a good idea at first, I feel that a very thorough discussion needs to be asked about them, and that discussion has not been made. It is not included in the legal evidence that follows these proposals to correct the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u88	A respectable president. Here is a bill for the legislation on the Management Board of Iceland's legislation. It was quite interesting to listen here at two former Ministers from the last term, to watch over the E Party, the official Party, which has never been elected; I was very happy to have sat here in the Senate and listened to their views. Senators. This bill is not an attack on government officials, as has been said in the case of what. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. He, of course, reviewed the need for a financial institution, such as other government agencies and the public system, to reroute the sails in the first two years of this government's history and simply described it as disaster. A respectable president. I don't like to paint like that because I know, and the people know that the Union and the left greens are just expanding the state and increasing public employees. By this time the state has become so large that government income is hardly enough to sustain it, and then I'm talking about government business. I'm not talking about the priorities the government has set for health, home affairs, education, and transportation. The system has become so large that government priorities are hardly possible. But it may not be surprising that this bill is used to contribute this language. Also, let us not forget, because there is now a lot of conflict, that public employees have considerably better compensation and status in their job than employees in the general labour market. I'm sure it's acknowledged. This should address the insecurity of public servants of the work that is negligible in relation to the general labour market. When companies start to run with losses, there is one thing to be done, the number of employees and management is reduced. And the labor movement has not been fighting that employers need to explain why an employee is dumped. In fact, that law was taken out, can be thrown out, and can be used to hire people in the public market without having any objective reasons for it. However, it is different with government employees who have to break off the same offense three times so that the person can be moved. I believe that the anxiety expressed in the last speech is absolutely unnecessary and that the bill and language in this case is virtually of no concern to be said at the beginning. As we know, laws on the board are still being repaired and improved. In September 2011, a new total law on the Council of Directories was established; this may now show how much better and more careful legalization is needed here at the council, so that members of Congress do not always have the same issues and constantly open up the supposed legal columns. But now this year is 2015, and this is a bill in 10 articles, so I again stress that we will be established by the General Legal Office so that the work of our members will be more targeted and not always splicing in the same tire tracks, as the last term was all under strict control in this law section. So here it is again. I'm celebrating what it says in 3. where it is being extended with the Ministers' committees, that it should always be the acting Minister on state funds and the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm happy to be here very clearly the responsibility of being a member of the government, and more are being informed of the government's affairs than only the minister of finance. I believe this is very important, especially in view of what happened in the collapse of the bank, when a businessman was held outside of all decision makings and took over a certain power when banks failed. True, there was a Minister's Committee then, but I've considered it in previous talks that it was very inactive. Although she had been contacted, the responsibility was fraught with one party; the ministers then serving from both categories were to be more responsible, although it was never mentioned. It's a joy to hear this all along. And it continues that the prime minister and the minister in the matter of economic management and financial stability should remain on the Ministry Committee on the economy. It is then to ensure that there is a clear vision and the same view of the sect; and there are, of course, other ministers. In a report on Article 3. I'm well over it, looking to Denmark in terms of shape. I am very happy about this, for in Denmark, there is an important area of consultation for Ministers and Ministers and Ministers in different forms of history and, in particular, for the Ministers' Committee, which has been discussed on government budgets, the preparation of budgets and funds, the implementation of budgets and so forth. We're not supposed to be picking up the bike all the time. After I've spoken a lot about general legalization, I've been very impressed when we go to the council and things that work well in Icelandic society. It has long proved that special solutions may not be the best ones; we know it altogether. In 1st. it is requested for granted that a minister be granted the authority to recommend the establishment of the institutions under his authority. This is a trial of the Supreme Court, a so-called National Research Court, that it must be brought back to an end because it is far better to have it under the laws of the Council than to have to exercise special law through the council to determine the development of the institutions. Then there's a law against the fact that it's allowed. And then I'm talking about moving agencies out of the country to Reykjavík or from Reykjavík to the country. I'm here taking an example of one institution I remember setting up in Akureyri, an In-Valid. If this had become a law, the Department of Social Affairs could bring her here to the capital area without having to pass it through the council. We have discussed that knowledge is not available in the country to care for these government institutions. I'll dismiss it. I feel like I'm talking down to the country. It is as if there is not enough education for people living in the country. I think it's a capital crash, and I don't participate in it; I've been around the country, and there are very good people. The government's work has done a lot of work with the fishing business. I'm not going to go anywhere in particular over it. This may be because the Fish Room is the only organization that has been discussed and has the means to move to Akureyri. But I can see it in a larger context. I can't see it that narrow. I'm not going to hit a armored city for one institution because I'm that big, it's a national war to get it through, and it's going to be a law for the future. No matter what company we sit in in, let's not forget, this warrant is present for a minister, it seems to him to be a benefit to the state, and even savings, to place institutions in the country or the capital. Then there is the requirement, as we know, that new institutions are constantly being established, and this is especially good in view of the fact that once a new institution is formed, it can be chosen in any part of the country. A review of a minister's permission to transfer the institutions of the Committee to members of the committee has been conducted with a modification form from the greater part of the management and monitoring committee that I shall sign along with the head of the opinion. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. It's very clear how this is. First, we will discuss who attended the committee meeting and what the committee specifically discussed. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ▪ Comments with the bill show that a minister's authority to determine the location of the institutions under which he or she is hearing is a normal part of the minister's administrative authority. Following the Court's trial of December 18, 1998, that the transfer of Iceland's Land Lans to Avérus was unscheduled, the official authority of the Ministers to transport agencies under his influence was established in Reykjavík. It is stated that at the last legal revision, the law went away, but it was not mentioned in comments to the bill and therefore the Council could not have taken sides in the change. I'm celebrating this bill. It would be wish to legalize before going on vacation to strengthen the foundation of government affairs and that these authority authorities regarding the establishment of the institutions will be realized. There are so many more articles being changed, but there are only word changes, and there are also other improvements to the Council Act, which were adopted in September 2011, which is also legalized by this bill. It is said in the bill itself, in a paper, that this is done because there is now a particular experience in the law that is being adjusted to the nomadics that have been observed in the implementation of their laws. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u89	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator turned to my talk, and I'm going to make a few comments that she made there. She said I was talking about an attack on government officials. I never have. I spoke of decisions made on the legal committee of the first year of this government's work on the rule-cut section of the Council that caused random verbs, unspoken random narratives. I criticized it. Hv. A senator said that the Conspiracy and the Left Animator were willing to expand the state and increase the number of government employees. That would be a special goal on our part. This is wrong. We want to promote public activity, we want to promote welfare services, but we have been willing to accept public service for review, its organization, and the examples demonstrate this. For example, we reorganized the tax, we reorganized the police organization, for example, at the reorganization of the county office, for example, and we have been taking over all the administrations for continued reviews. Of course, public administration, such as any activity, company or government with the government, should have a continuous review, and we have wanted to contribute to it. Hv. A senator turned to the court case of public employees and said that it was much stronger than it was on the public market, that people could be fired without any objective circumstances. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that public employees are to be run without objective reasons? Is she saying that? I'd like to be informed if it's the special rivalry of the Agency and the chairman of the budget that it will be done, that the law will be changed in this respect. Regarding the Ministers Committees, I criticized the assumption that these changes were made that they were not well enough. That new institutions should not be set up - that is, of course, so good that we have been critical of the 6th paragraph. This bill, which assumes a change in 17th paragraph. the current law, open it up, and we're promoting a perturbing discussion about all these factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In this discussion, I encourage them to step up from a political channel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u90	President wants to encourage them. Councilmen to stick to deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u91	A respectable president. I think the excitement in this situation is a big answer from what I'm saying. paritaprevir My son, Jónasson. I don't know where to start, but he went over it in his speech and pointed to me for an inquiry, whether I was speaking for the opportunity to fire and hire public employees like each one's own. I never talked about it. I was comparing the situation with the general labour market, where there is no need to be any reason for disfellowshipping, and the second, the legal standing of public employees is so much stronger in the state and in the rural areas, which is very popular. Not only will it be released but we will not be kept in this respect, for we also know that the main yellowing of being a public employee is the state-secured pension fund far better than the pension fund in the general labour market. It is paid 15.5% into the State Department of Pension with each employee, and it was totally justified at the time when government workers had much less pay than employees in the public market. But this year and the last time, we have seen that the pay of public employees has become quite competitive in the public market. That's just what I was saying. But I object to the fact that I was measuring out that public employees could be run without a serious cause. It's a misunderstanding with the senator if he's understood my words like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u92	V.E.G. President. I welcome this declaration. Senator. But, hey. A senator often stopped by, discussed the pension system, and other factors. I have 47 seconds to make arrangements to discuss it, but I have declared that I think I need less than an hour to account for my views. That's 11 speeches. If this discussion ends at a good time and I can find out with my 11 speeches, I promise the senator that they will be delivered. [[Up front.]] - Good, because we're supposed to take this case and discuss it objectively. There's good reason for that. This is a very important conference we have here on the board of directors of Iceland. We're supposed to take that discussion seriously, and that's what I'm gonna do in the eleven speeches I've got here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. What I wanted to ask him about, for he is at the majority of themes in this case, is: Why can't there be any change from what happened? A senator on the Ministers Committee? I've been reading speeches since then. A senator from his last term. The senator, who had strong convictions about the Ministers Committees, was more opposed to them. Does it really work out well? I'd like to ask you what. This is for a senator. Then I'd like to ask you why. A senator because he was very interested in and concerned about government during his last term and said when the Council's Law was passed, by permission of the president: But this is a clear example of what you have read in textbooks and in national history that when individuals come to power, they always begin to exercise authority. This is what we know about a disaster story from Europe. To seek power, preferably to become isolated, and to be able to rule and put out of his seat. It scares me a little because it's so unhappinesst. This scares me in that I thought we were all going to learn from the collapse, but we're not. There's even more leadership involved here than before the collapse. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council because this is a very undeniably advocate of a minister's authority to transport organizations without any intervention in the council. Isn't this some kind of leadership? Is this okay with this, and is it more Icelandic than what was during the last term?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u94	A respectable president. In the beginning, I'd like to say, "This was a great speech that I gave during the last term; just as I spoke out of my mouth, for I brought it myself, and stood by it, and am still in the same mind." Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall knows exactly why those words fell. They were being discussed almost all the last terms, these changes in the Council of Control. It was not enough for the government to submit a reexamination of the law but for all the terms of the Minister were taken from the law, transferred power, and included the implementation of the marine economist and agricultural ministers on behalf of the EU case and submitted to foreign ministers. There were these transfers that took place during the last term that I spoke of being an officer. We know that in the Law, the local prime minister was made very high and I think the Ministers' committees, because they were also discussed, were in an image; I say, they at least didn't work in the collapse of the bank, as I discussed in my speech. There was no phone call. He was just home in a living room, and the chairman of the United States, and then a foreign minister, he thought of them. The committees didn't work then, so I'm glad that there's further improvement under the Ministers Committee in this bill. The responsibility is the government. It's not a multi-organized authority in this country. Each minister is responsible for his case. But by giving stronger support to the Ministerial Committees and the approval that the Ministers have among them, there is a greater and better perspective on the affairs of the country. Then I hope it doesn't happen again what happened here at the collapse, that the Minister's been made to sit at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u95	A respectable president. The best thing to do is to live. I think that's a very good thing. A senator has abandoned the great opposition and certain views she had on the Ministers' Committees during her last term, but the question remains. If it was more of a regime that was going on there, what is this? Well, isn't this a little more government? And in what ways is this more than what the other was wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u96	Are you talking about the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u97	I'm talking some kind of leadership thing. A senator spoke so extensively during his last term, a warrant to change the Council of Government, etc. There are some sources that are being installed to bring about institutions. The minister decides. It's not going to enter the council. It's just a minister who decides. Isn't that right, then? Senator, am I increasing leadership? This is something I would like to receive very clear answers from what happened. Senator. Is it not a higher authority when this power is transferred to the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u98	A respectable president. Just not and really, these are the great legal benefits here suggested that each minister is responsible for his own business and for the institutions under which he hears. At that time, a professional minister receives this irresistibly authority to determine where his institutions are. It's not government, because it's being given power over the entire government, and then the minister of that subject is responsible for his legal order to the end. But leadership in my mind and leadership, that I'm talking about in this elected period and in the first term, is that there is one in charge. It is that there is one authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u99	Mr. President. In view of the fact that in the course of his speech, there is an interesting exchange of words about leadership. A senator reflected on the fact that there had been unnecessary talks that were irrelevant. It is difficult to estimate anything other than that. A senator is volunteering to decide on the behalf of other members of Congress what to talk about and what to say. It may be a tiny witness of leadership, if that's what it is. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is offering to take the task of determining what other senators, 62, should say. Or didn't I hear it right? Wasn't a w-w-what. A senator making himself available for that role? Second, I'd like to ask what. A senator of the above proposals, i.e. To eliminate an independent committee on moral standards within the Council of Government, a so - called Compatibility Committee, and to the extent that this will continue to be done. Now the problem is that the Ministry of Presidency has a number of problems with this matter, just the question of ethics and their handling. This has led to a letter writing written by the U.S. secretary of the Council to prime minister, where an agent is trying to shed light on whether a head is in the place of moral rules in the history of this government and has naturally, though rather, become somewhat wise. But then you feel why. It's a good idea for a senator to hide this role in this situation, is it? Can we not conclude from this and from the letters written by the emissary to the prime minister that the Ministry of Presidency may simply have to get a hold of these matters within the Board of Directors and that having named special - born members in support of that issue? Counts 'em out. A member of Parliament does not suggest that it is a better arrangement to be united by the Council of the Presidency Committee of the Generals, as well as the heads of all councils here, in connection with the Code of the Generals, i.e. that it is strictly professional independent of a committee that has a role to determine whether the code of ethics has been violated?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u100	A respectable president. Just to answer the first question, the senator asks me whether I am in charge here at the Hall of Congress and whether I decide what members of Congress say from this platform. It is, of course, not to say that it is, according to the Constitution of free speech in this sermon, and it should be. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to know that he has been sitting the longest in Congress. I was joking with the forward call that I was dying to discuss the Penitentiary Fund of the state's staff at the moment. paritaprevir Aggmme Jónasson. If he's got 11 speeches, I'd probably get 22 in return. But I don't know if I can be here all the time while the senator is in charge, but I'm going to do what I want to do. I'm going to do the best I can. Hv. paritaprevir In the bill, J. Sigfússon's Stegirdor reviewed a protocol. It was a bad idea that it was being transferred to the Ministry of Presidency. The Ministry of Presidency is to give governments advice on the interpretation of ethical principles in the following cases, in charge of instruction, and on how to achieve its purpose. In order to ensure that the work of the U.S. Marshal and State Review is performed, the Ministry shall have regular consultation with that office. I would like to direct the senator to read the bill's report on Article 8. but it's very comfortable there. I think this case is in good shape. The government abides by the moral code of the former government, so I must ask myself and the members of the council in this room: Did they not test ethics? Are they defective? When the last government was in power, did they come up with some huge faults? What's the deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u101	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may not have been paying close attention to the discussions. It was about whether the present government felt bound by that code and was following it or not. The answers at the outset were vague, and an agent wrote specifically to try to get this straight and relate to a natural language that all of us know that a minister would eventually have to resign because of his government's official activities. The code was good. It was put into practice during the last term, and it proved successful, and that government was successful in that regard. That is why it is perfectly acceptable for the present government to follow that code, but it should have simply confirmed at the beginning that it did so and that it did not see a reason to reconsider those rules. If she had now done so in more cases, just decided to follow the direction of the previous government, we'd be better off. But I'm gonna ask who. A senator - she mentioned that with the authority to transport organizations that are being opened up here, for example, a social minister could transfer an emissary from Akureyri to Reykjavík: Was there ever a problem? A senator's suggestion? That's what I'm talking about. A senator of the opinion that an equal practice can't stay in Akureyri?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u102	A respectable president. I can't see better than what I see. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is trying to get the news tonight. I was just explaining that this discussion in the board of directors' language had been on the way that nothing could have been moved from Reykjavík to the country. It's a very strange thing, because the country's a six- fiasco, three here in the capital area, and three in the country, and the whole discussion is that none of the Great Peoples' territory is to be exported to land. I simply brought the other side of the matter and said in my speech that right now I would leave an equal room in Akureyri that could be moved to Reykjavík. I was pointing to two viewpoints and showing that it is not a single policy-changing proposal in bringing government agencies. There are government agencies in the country that could be moved to the capital area, which would seem to be more suitable, better, or in some way available for the State. I was turning over this tiresome discussion that we must not go to a country that is already in Reykjavík. And I'll say it as a senator for the city of Smoke.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u103	Mr. President. We're still here at 2nd. ... abouta bill to correct a change in the U.S. Board of Directors. I would like to use this second talk on this matter to focus on page 8. The bill, but it reads, with the permission of the President: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of morality in the following cases, provides instruction on these within the Council of Government, and monitors that they will accomplish their purpose. This is what we have in the memory of here at the General Assembly protested, concluding that this is not a good or useful adjustment. Now, the public in Iceland does not have much confidence, neither for the Generals nor for the government as a whole, and I think that it alone is very bad and undermines the people's belief in democracy. For that reason, I think it's a big deal, and that's why we have to talk a lot about what this bill means. You see, it's not just 1. ... wherethe secretary's office can determine where the institutions under him have a residence, which I believe must be avoided. It has also been pointed out in this discussion that the same is part of 8. ... whichI talked about earlier, as well as the b-along 10. who have the right to make great authority to the prime minister. I don't think that would improve, because trust in the administration and belief in the public having faith in the system requires that there be active measures here to show and to ensure that there is a barrier to corruption. I think it's very important to keep that in mind. There are very special motivations that are relevant to our small community; that is exactly the small, the risk of friendship or family ties, formality and lack of professional ability to minimize duties that come with office and responsibility. It's a natural big deal. But in an effort to do something about it, a co-ordination committee was established on moral standards in the administration. It was originally set up by law No. 86/2010, the change in Iceland's Council of Management Act, and these regulations on the ethics and co-ordination committees were practically taken unchanged into law No. 115/2011, the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. This committee had seven members, and she was appointed for three years. Now it's so great. After the fall of 2013, prime minister has not reassigned the committee. I would like to quote only the first annual report of this co-ordination committee, which is no longer active, on May 4, 2012. A major point in the introduction of the report says that the projects under the committee were, by permission of the President: ▪ To promote a high moral standard in public jobs and to provide governments with counsel on how to prevent conflicting interests and corruption. The rules of ethics were presented at the board of directors' website, and comments were asked to be made. When the committee reviewed these observations, it was found that people's understanding of moral principles, their purpose, and their roles varied greatly, realizing that in the induction process of moral rules, both use and goals would have to be given to them as well as to be thoroughly explained. But I don't think we've finished here yet. My opinion is that we are only in the middle of a process that has not yet been completed, for it also states that the purpose was not to create new burdensome rules that shape conduct in a similar way as the code of law, although these regulations did not apply to law and that ethics would never replace people's judgment but that would be a failure to provide support for problems or to see the basics. With the bill we have here, the highest. Prime Minister to put down this ethic committee, this meeting committee on moral standards for the administrations, but accept her own task, i.e. to himself at the Ministry of Presidency. That's what worries me. This does not mean that a prime minister begins to abuse his power, but there is a danger. There is a gap being opened, I believe, which can promote motivation that can lead to corruption. I believe that there is something that we here at the Council must totally resist, but stand up for the common interests, which, in my opinion, are to ensure that every time rulers cannot abuse their authority. We are here to refer to the evidence that there are ways to strengthen democratic government. This is exactly the way it is being taken in the wrong direction by suggesting that the co-ordination committee be set up on moral standards for the administrations but move it to the highest level. Prime Minister and the Ministry of Presidency; that it is his job to give governments advice on how to interpret the rules of ethics when it is considered. Even if it wasn't for the 8th parr. - Even if we were to overlook all the other faults on the bill and I went better to my previous talk - I still think it's very good enough that we don't accept these laws but rather get back started with a job that aims to put a new morality committee on a broad and professional basis which will be the management board to advise on moral standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u104	President. I thank the senator for his speech. She used her time here to review the co-ordination committee on moral standards, I think it's her name. However, it is remarkable that the senator's speech, i.e. That this committee has been appointed, and its time has expired in the autumn of 2013, I believe it has occurred. Now that we are in June 2015, it tells me that almost two years have passed and the highest. The prime minister has failed to appoint this committee. There was one thing I could think of for myself. There are many things that humans do not do, though they are to obey that law and there are no moral standards. Code rules are not legal, but they are law-text and highest. Prime Minister just doesn't care, he doesn't order this committee. Then I've heard it, when it comes to keeping these from the law, that there's no reason to have mentioned it because she didn't have so much to do. I would like to ask the senator: Does she feel that it is a reason to cancel a committee, which is about how public employees should appear, that it was not so much to be done; that it is only right to put it somewhere in a drawer and not think about it any more?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question, I believe it's very good. Do we remember saying that we should stop using fire extinguishers in stairs because an apartment has never been built up? I don't think we'd ever think of that. This is a fail-safe arrangement, which, fortunately, I'm just saying, doesn't have to be taken care of. However, when there is a problem, we must have a safety net that will catch us. I believe that the co-ordination committee is such a safety network; she's always weighing things, setting up standards, and then she's helping if anything happens. The Ministry of Presidency, like any other part of the Icelandic government, may present a very difficult situation. Then I think it's very bad that there's the man on the bridge, i.e. The prime minister himself, to whom counsel is to be given. Even if he has to discuss it with an agent of the Generals or a Federal Accounting survey, I just don't think that's enough. Of course, we are happy that we have needed little of the committee. So it's just with most good safety devices, we rarely use them, but we like them when we need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u106	President. I think it's a great metaphor by then. A senator compares this committee to a fire extinguishor. We hope for the rest of our life that we do not have to resort to it, and the same applies to me with this committee. But I agree with what. A senator says she needs to be there. During the commission work, I asked a visitor who came from the National Institute of Moralology on the general question: Is it not better for a third party, an external party, to judge and present such a case rather than to be run by the Ministry of Directors in this case? The answer I received was that in most cases it would be better by such rules that a third person would come up with a case. But what the visitor felt was that there was no discussion of how this should be done inside the Ministry of Presidency. The Ministry of Presidency is to do this, and the visitor said: "Maybe they're going to go to someone, maybe they're going to do something about it. I think it's a big problem with the bill that they just talk about the release of this case at the Ministry of Presidency and then that's it. Even if this should be added to the Ministry of Presidency, would it not require a further description of how this should be done in the high department?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u107	Mr. President. I must admit that even if there were detailed instructions on how to handle this in the Ministry of Presidency, I still felt that here we were putting the matter in the wrong place. It would be an improvement and made the law much clearer if there was a work modalization, it would certainly be better, but it wouldn't help me with the change. I just want to repeat what I said in my speech that we really need the public to trust the government. In order to pray for that trust, we must also show it and make sure that all motives for corruption are counteracted. One of the motivations to keep in mind is that there is no opportunity for individuals or for individual rulers to take advantage of their own interests. Although the prime minister is the best of all and has a halo on his head, you never know who will replace him later in office or what circumstances may arise, so it is not about some particular person. This is about how we're going to have our administration built up so that the public can believe and trust in it. This is not by bringing all the authority to judge moral matters into the Ministry of Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u108	V.E.G. President. In the long and long discussion that's been going on with this bill to legalize the European Commission's legislation, No. 115/2011, by subsequent changes i.e. Organizational schemes, institutions, etc., are several factors that are very controversial. One might ask himself, " Was the main purpose to the highest level? ' Prime Ministers, or other ministers by incident, are granted the authority to make comments about the location of the institutions. Perhaps it was only after the crash of a minister because of the proposed transport of the Fish Room, which I come better to, after which it is inserted than with adjustments to some more articles, that would include more than one page of a paper, several pages? I tend to suspect. The bill suggests changes to the European Commission legislation, which includes general access to Ministers to determine the residence of their institutions and, secondly, to set up operations and ministry agencies within the Ministry. I feel that I have not had any answer to why it is suggested and what it was doing. To my mind, the investigational Committee of the II Parliaments, etc. of formality in the Council of Government and of such things. Is there something you're trying to create inside that will not be as formal? Is it possible to create some tool for the minister's assistants or more of the best friends when new ministers come in? If it is, I don't see the point. I'm kind of against it. Then it is a self-concerned item suggested that, at the time of the administration between recruitment agents, financial rights should be transferred and the employees should be informed. It is rather an unorthodox word in the committee's list of parts, I think, that it is spoken of as transporting funds and employment between recruitments; to my mind, there is a failure in the old days. But that there is a need to bind it into law that if something is changed into councils, perhaps to work, the legal rights should be handed over; of course, it is meant to be a self - righteous thing. The Court's legislation on the rights and duties of the state, on the authority to transport workers - perhaps more or more, on the authority or authority to go without the publication of the vacancy for application is proposed. It's one thing, but I've heard a lot of opinions about what's going on. Then comes the role of the Ministers Committee on State and Economic Affairs. They've been working. Do they need a law base? Perhaps. The last government worked in this way, including the Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities. Could it be that outside the government, two, three, or four ministers are making some decision and are then prepared to meet with a government in which there might be eight, ten, or twelve ministers, and that the matter is not discussed because it has been discussed in the Minister's Committee and so is done? It's a question of whether this is the wise thing to do, at least I would have thought there would be more to follow along and a report on how this should be done. I told earlier at the beginning of my speech that I have the impression that this bill is submitted following the failure of the government, which is primarily written at the highest. Prime Ministers and marine eco-efficiency Ministers - who I believe received the package and had to be responsible for it after the highest level. The prime minister had already decided to move Fish Room with skin and hair north to Akureyri in the way it was done. Now I must make it clear that I am very supportive of the transfer from within the national network to the country and believe that more is to be done, but it doesn't matter how it is done. There are a number of methods that have given good intentions, such as, for example, let's just stick to the Fish Room, that a decision be made to make in certain years, five years, seven years, or ten years of age, move north to Akureyri - let's just stick to what was planned for us - and that's a good job, and use of employees to start working on this job. I would also like to state that there must be a great deal of caution about transporting institutions or laying jobs, and no matter whether or not they are moving from capital areas to the country or taking the few jobs in the country in the public sector to a capital area that may include several examples. They've been less discussed. This is because there are not many jobs there. It is not taking institutions but is gradually shrinking. As mentioned here, in a discussion of school affairs, branch offices are easier to attack than the Agency itself. If the branch needs to be cut down, the work is reduced, and much has happened in the country without much discussion. But I'd like to stop for a while with a Fish Room. It's about 100 employees, and if people are going to take this office and do things the way the Ministers planned to do - I'm told that it was even so that Prime Minister didn't announce his arrival at the requested meeting, which I think was at the Professional Development Society, but he kind of jumped up in a plane and flew north to Akureyri, appeared at the meeting and announced it. If it is also true that a minister's going to the Fish Room to report the decision and men just sat and waited until someone else announced this government decision, it would be a natural example of how this is not to be done. You need to remember that behind employees, whether in Fish Room or elsewhere, no matter whether you are moving an institution or a job from your capital area to a national or national capital, there are other people, behind this work is a family. In many cases, it is a marriage mate, and in most cases children, children at school, children in a particular environment they have adapted to and in. People just don't walk like that to say, " After a while, you'll all be given a chance to move someone out to land or south, so I'll stick to it - just like that, in the way that they did. As a sponsor for moving jobs in the administration board to the country and promoting administrative affairs in the country or the government's activities, I have to say, it doesn't matter how it is done. And I don't think they're grateful for the smoothness of these ministers, and I don't think they've made us feel bad about a game that I'm not grateful for. If a person reviews the Supreme Court on the basis of the transfer of the EU in his day, it can be noted that there should be high qualifications for a minister for professional preparation and consultation, and that there should be objective reasons for transport. Even if that is the case, I'm going to continue to think that it's in both directions, that is a critical reason for the transfer, and that we need to work on some specific preparation, professional and consultation. More important, moderate workers need to be exercised. Let's just say 100 people have an institution, a spouse and two children; this is about 400 people, and that would be better, I would think, have an average rule in mind in this regard. Then we will discuss that such a decision is very significant - it is talking about the livelihood of employees. That is why these were the main points of a Supreme Court hearing. Have there been no lessons to be learned? It doesn't seem to be. I believe that this was a flumbrupt, and a poorly prepared case of something as fine as that the main work of Fishing House is somewhere out in the country after five, seven, or ten years. This can be achieved by the decision that in a number of years, they are available to transfer and workers, which is always considerable, used and carried out by advertising, i.e. it is not worse if the person is in a certain area or is willing to move to it. I think the Al Parliament's agent's opinion of the fishing business also takes a very close account of this Supreme Court. I have heard that all of the EEA's advertisements have an old battle case with our peers, which I think we've been the first to put in the prehuman existence of Adranar Össur's Skarphéðinsson or Ingibjörg Sólrún Sólrús Gísladóttir, I can't remember now whether or not, about jobs without location. Now I've been over this fishing business, which ended with the news coming on the top. a sea chief forum as an agent of the case after the decision was made - and I reiterate what I said earlier that he saw a reason to appear and apologize for this matter. I'm going to take one more case for an example. I participated in being a minister of transportation to unite organizations. This was done in a large number of consultations with the staff, with a large body of work groups, two or three, returning a report to the minister. The staff was introduced, and the staff was included in the management plan. But on the job board, there's been a bill from the highest level. A sea secretary to unite the Merit Research Institute and the Fishing Organization, and I have to say, as it is, that the financial benefits they claim are merely the need for one president instead of two, that was all the financial gain. What was new in that bill was that we were to resign from all the employees before. That was new. When this appeared on the job board and explained to us that the government had recently made a decision on how to build up and how to list them - we've received a memo and it was put on the case on the Generals web, where it can be read that there were several options, but the government had decided to go together with the small and medium-sized institutions that all the employees should be suspended or given similar jobs. But as with acquired rights, etc., it was very adhered to. This case, the Union of the Merro and the Fishing Organization, has not been very much discussed. I'm not sure that everyone realizes this recent government approval to hold things like this. I think this is a worse way. I reiterate what I said earlier that at the time, I had very extensive consultation with the staff and it was enlightened at all levels of work which ended with what was done there, the activities of Siginga Agency and Vega combined, the administrative department placed under the Grouproom, etc., and I have not heard anything but satisfied with the work that was done there. I reiterate what I said here at the end of my speech and plan to do here that I am very supportive that there are more people out there in the country than I think they should do by means of a staff choice. When people react to what they did with the Fish Room, which I reiterate to be way too big a jump and too hard to deal with, the project gets out of the question. It is better to do this with your staff choose and over a longer period of time. I wanted this to be the subject of this discussion, but now I understand that it is clear that this case will go back to the committee. I say for my part that I appreciate it so that although this bill is passed, as bad as it really is,--let's say, for example, that it has become reality or would have been enacted when the Minister decided to move the Fish Room, I still don't think it's enough, considering the Supreme Court judgment and what the Supreme Court puts into the country survey, to do it on average, due to preparation. That case would have always had to come in to the Generals for a decision and discussion there. That would guarantee a professional practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u109	Mr. President. This case, the device, is about that decision at the highest level. Seafood and agricultural ministers moving Fish Room to Akureyri. As others have noted, there have been other factors that have been decided to bring into this matter too. I just want to review the importance of increasing the number of public jobs in the country, even though I am not a member of the district. ..... that it is only under the authority of a secretary how it is carried out. I emphasize how much I feel about carrying out projects and increasing public work in the country, not only in the most densely populated places, but also in smaller areas where it will be involved, where good workers and secure high - speed connections are most important, not locations. Experience from the land location of public work has long ago demonstrated that this meets the requirements for professional work practices and good work environments and the trust of workers is also available in the country. The extent of government growth has been high in the last 20 to 30 years, and the growth of public employment has occurred primarily in the capital area. Although several government agencies have been located in the country over the years, it is an eternal battle to continue their work in the country. I think every member of the country is aware of the struggle that is in each budget to defend national activities where there is more than no status at all to be cut off. In fact, it has been shown in research that public spending and taxation are high in land areas, but I don't intend to plan that there was a goal in itself. The settlement has been damaged by it, but the capital area has enjoyed it over the years. It's just facts. Evidence has been made that the trade of the region in the capital area is relative to that of the national capital area. In this context, it is reasonable to look to further public witnessing to the land to settle the economic discrepancies that are fact, and the official is also responsible by his administrative decision over the years. I believe that the government must work after a clear policy in the export of public jobs in the country, that in line with the Ministry and the government's work and walk in rhythm, they will be presented with the natural preparatory movement of the state between national territories, carefully observe the human factors and rights of employees involved, and take special attention to new projects and jobs that will be made to the public. Of course, the administration of the Generals is to be ensured by the policy process and that the budget reflects that will. However, all preparations must be careful and land mapped, where to work, tasks, and activities will be best used. Then I think that most important is to look at the areas that have hit the last few years and that they really need diversity, and that's a good high - speed connection key. There are a number of projects that have moved to the country over the years and have been successful with, such as the Congregation of Living in the South Year's Fund, the Farming in the Shire, the National Research of Iceland at Akrelini, the Labour Necessary Insurance Office on Skaga Beach, the Office of Food Oral Leagues in the Skulls, and the National Institutes in Akureyri, the United States of England on Isafak - in fact, these institutions are uplifting and viewing, and some adjustments will be on the journey. I can also give examples of projects, such as the Subcommittee Society's Penitentiary, but I believe that maybe because of poor high - speed connections in Flattage at the time, they did not work out. That assignment was transferred to Ísafjörður. Sadly, this is not an isolated event, and lack of much of the land's data transport prevents more often than commercial development. Sadly, government agencies, such as the Fish Room, which has been very much discussed here, have been circling their jobs in branches in a country under the cover of changes that have led to professionals moving away from these places. I can also name organizations where the number of jobs in recent losses has decreased, such as those with Istavia and Matis. It's pretty easy for the politicians and the government to lock up when it comes to small work stations, and unfortunately, there are many negative practices there. Until things are done and difficult to deal with, the General often has no room to interfere with them. I don't think that cooking between the country and the capital area should be fueled by unscrupulous practices in carrying out jobs and activities in the country but should be careful and, of course, have to be financial enough to show that people want to promote public activity across the country. Sadly, last funds did not indicate that it was the will. It was a massive cutoff on many projects in the country, as the national parish program provides the best example. This law on higher Ministering only increases the tension between the capital area and the region, I think that's the case. I point to the need for a greater range of employment tools, and it is the common interests of all citizens of the country to be successful by the transport of public jobs and the construction of jobs in the country, as the country is one of the biggest clients of the capital area, sometimes forgotten in the discussion. I think it should be possible to fix 1. Eng., which has been most in the discussion, this increase in Ministership that is dangerous. We're here to promote a democratic approach to such large issues. They're to be well discussed here at the Council. We've seen it as the highest. A minister of education has been preparing far and wide for the country, which turns toward educational institutions, which have been more concerned with my thinking. We must not go to work to make the project more powerful at the cost of the legislature. It's a very dangerous trend, and I think it has to be corrected. ... withsomething else on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-04-119.u110	V.E.G. President. I told the discussion earlier today that I planned to give 11 more talks on the matter; they're only five minutes long, but I need an hour to explain my views. I have failed this decision in view of the fact that the matter is now being brought back to the Commission and the Council's Commission. I hope that these changes will be made in the bill, taking into account the viewpoints that have been treated by the very good discussions that have been discussed in the conference hall. On this basis, from this first decision I make, I hope we can add the bill to the Commission coverage after 2rd. ... aboutit.
