ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u1	A letter has been received from the Home Office where request is made in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 987, for violations of alcohol advertisements, from Madge, son of Jónasson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Industrial and Business Ministers and Social and Housing Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u3	A respectable president. There are reports of the government's plans for changing the Federal Bank. It is quite surprising if the government has a right to bring in three new offices of the bank manager at just over 300 yous. a people. One of the lessons that were drawn here after the collapse was that it would not have proved to be especially successful or that it would improve economic stability for decades to have three bank managers. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister whether he supports the ideas of having three bank managers in the country and whether it is intended to take in this way the ultimatum of a sitting bank manager by making a decision of two bank managers against the Third Amendment, i.e. that the new bank manager with which we are added can produce more things that can work out in the bank. The fact is, for decades the bank manager's position was a 50-50 share. We have long and bitter experience with political interference from the head of the Federal Bank. I thought we'd learned in the financial breakdown that we needed to put all emphasis on having a professional head over the bank. I'm asking the highest, too. Whether we need to worry about being added to one bank manager from each body of directors after such adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u4	A respectable president. The Committee has been working for some time to prepare a bill for a law at the Bank of Iceland. I haven't seen a bill that way that I'm not wondering what might happen in it. However, at one point in my discussion of these matters, I mentioned that having one bank manager and a certain advantage and failing to have more than one one person had. But I'll simply appreciate it like a dog. A senator in due course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u5	A respectable president. I didn't think I asked the highest. On this day, the prime minister is incompetent to complicated questions. Does the prime minister support an idea of three bank managers, where two new bank managers can form more parts in the bank administration for decisions? Does it seem that it is a failure to increase trust in the Icelandic economy in this way, in turn, in order to root out the bank's mastery? I must also ask the highest. Prime Minister, if the prime minister of the country has not developed a stand on this important issue: Is there any reason to believe that within two months, the government will make such a law? Isn't it a matter of the highest order? The prime minister of the government and the council is far better prepared than going to slip it in just before the deadline this week?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u6	A respectable president. The preparation, as I mentioned earlier, has lasted for a long time, so I expect that when people make it, they will be very well prepared, and there will be nothing to do about taking a stand on her. However, with regard to floundering, it is. A senator that in some way it is in some way that we have had three bank managers that here the economic issues have developed in a way that they did a few years ago is a very strange one, but it is not often the case that more than one bank manager is in charge of the country's money banks around us, often and in times, many bank managers. I had a long time here with three bank managers. There was no 50-50 change in it or any other reason. A senator would belittle all the good things that were involved in the job of the bank manager if he especially looks at the political views that may have been held before they took up the job at the bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u7	A respectable president. The Act on the Framework Programme expects special professional groups to review priming ideas and bring in specific ratings for project management, which then sort out ideas about activation initiatives. Changes from a greater part of the employment committee currently available at the council are expected to include one priming option at least, that is a matter of opinion about the Tank century, which has not received a professional opinion and is not covered by a project administration, which is said to have not been put down by a protection, delay or usefulness of the task management committee, on the part of the colony - making committee. Now I'm pretending to know after I've been to the state council. Secretary Ragnheiður Elín of Árnadóttir that she prefers the blood to the duty of trying to activate as much as possible, and I consider it a good chance to get an upper level. A minister is of the opinion that it should be activated in Lake Haguess, and it is a very well paid price, the highest opinion. Minister, even if I don't agree with her. However, I would like to ask the highest. Minister if there is enough of it, that the majority of the committee's opinion is that it should activate in order for the General to make the decision to move the priming option from the waiting category to use it. I think it's a little important to get to the top. Hence, a minister here explains how she feels about this project and whether it is enough for politicians to think but not for the proposed professional and project management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u8	A respectable president. The proposed activation option, Lake Hagah, was discussed in detail during the last term here at the council, when we discussed a frame plan, and it can be said in effect that the reason for his lack of material treatment was to be taken and brought between classes was a mistake. I've heard that coming from a representative of those who were in this during the last term. Let us recall that this controversial activation option has developed very positive comments, especially in a environmental way. In view of what has been observed, including in talks and publications from the highest. President, that the council and members of Congress have very limited authority to make adjustments in their proposals, I see nothing wrong with the fact that the Parliament's employment committee does and calls and reviews the data on this unique activation situation so that I do not make a comment to the labour board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u9	A respectable president. Noh, there's already a place here to the highest. Industrial and business administrators do not respect the regulations set up for activation initiatives. It does not respect the law on a frame plan, nor does it care that the law is not inexorably fixed in the process of priming because it has heard of it, as it put it so tastefully in the platform, that it has been established during the last term by various counts of opinion. Of course, such answers are repugnant at the highest rate. Minister is coming with us on this matter. Furthermore, our chief expert on destruction, Professor Ólafur Arnalds, has said that there were at least six missing if there were not seven different studies to block the water of Hagues. This is ignored because of the highest value. Minister has heard something else go away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u10	A respectable president. Of course, there are outward spins that are not worth answering. A senator chooses to interpret my words earlier. Also, it should not be forgotten that in the summer of 2013, the current Environment Minister of the Project Management Board had to consider specific activation options, including Lake Hagah. I have repeatedly criticized the project management for not caring for the recommendations and instructions given to them, and she failed to consider, for example, this activation. As far as it depends. A senator noted, that further research has to be done on this activation option, pointing it to reviews, that is exactly what happens, that is not to be followed by the activation without environmental assessment. A senator, of course, comments on how to treat them. This is not so as soon as possible - if this is the time for activation to become a novelty class, it does not mean that the next day the activation will start. [[The environmental assessment was never...]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, this option, like everyone else, has to go through a legal process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the highest. Health Minister for the proposed bill on the subject of selling alcohol from the state into the public market. I would like to consider a few questions with the minister that have been given in many comments on the subject that most people suggest an increase in sales status and a higher availability of alcohol through increased pressures on the health system, the child - protection system, the social systems, the justice system, and the insurance system and the effects on society in many places. The World Health Organization has also noted that alcohol consumption is the third leading hazard for human health, and the same agency has said that there is an increased incidence of certain alcoholic illnesses, while it also shows that the health effects of alcohol are widespread in view of the spiritual and physical consequences of alcohol abuse and alcohol - induced accidents. Swedish Public Health Organization instructed Swedish and international specialists in alcohol research to study its effect on Swedish society if state consumption of alcohol sales and sale of alcohol were permitted in grocery stores. The results were mild - tempered. Alcohol consumption would increase by 37.4% and result in a higher death rate, increased violence, an increased number of those who drive under the influence of alcohol, and an enormous increase in days of illness. The World Health Organization sent a letter to the surgeon general for the contributions of the bill and urged that the Icelanders hold to their policy of monologue, as this reduces consumption. I'd like to ask the highest. A health minister to see if he accepts that view. Now a public health group is at the highest level. A minister to be submitted at the end of this year and I would like to ask if he believes that the promotion of the bill is in opposition to the government's objective for public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. What is discussed here is a bill that deals with selling alcohol at grocery stores and focuses on the question of whether non-public employees should sell or take care of a little liquor. As far as I'm concerned, the bill in other respects includes as little change in the legal environment of alcohol and tobacco sales as possible. What interests me most about this is how we can minimize alcohol abuse, not just drug abuse, but, above all, abuse. We live in Iceland, for example, that alcohol is a legal product, as well as tobacco, which is very harmful. Much of the discussion has been focused on whether the change proposed in the bill is already under way. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason and others will increase consumption and alcohol consumption for people, but I have been very concerned with the simple fact that the direction of the ATSVR, a government firm, has over the past few years been to increase the availability of people to this legal product. In fact, when shopping is being moved out, they are growing wide and wide throughout the country, if the argument is to be taken against it, the stated policy they have to take against the abuse of these liquids. I'm assuming that part of her work will include the National Health Committee. looking for influence will be the final suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u13	A respectable president. We certainly are discussing legal sales items here. But the highest. One minister did not answer the question: Does he want to increase its availability even more? Although ATVR has been increasing service with limited opening periods, this does not change the fact that the bill is working to further increase its bioavailability. So I'm asking the Minister if this is in harmony with the government's policy. A fourth child has a parent or another close alcoholic partner, we are talking about 22 Thouss. children. The surgeon general also asserts that contrary to what is stated in the report with the bill, all international studies indicate that private sales of alcohol will lead to an increase in total consumption. Furthermore, research shows that the combination of alcohol consumption increases the social cost of alcohol - related problems, and that is what I'm asking, and it turns to the highest level. Minister and must have his position on the bill. There is no need for the bill to determine the effect of change on one factor. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking him, "Styv." Health Minister this bill his party members represent at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u14	A respectable president. What I'm interested in in is the fundamental change that's being proposed for the payment of public health. It is assumed that a portion of the liquor store is going to an even greater degree than has been used to protect public health. [[Up front.]] It's part of the bill we have here. And if I recall correctly, I think that 5% of the value of the sale is expected to go to the public health service that is in my mind... [[An independent decision.]] It's a personal decision, but it's still connected inside the bill we have here. I have also noticed in the discussion on this matter that we are always talking about not increasing the availability of this product, but I feel that the discussion has less focused on the preventive activities that the government is going to provide and work on in this area, which is less likely to happen. My attitude toward the bill is expressed when it comes to votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u15	A respectable president. It seems that no one has overlooked that the Continental Meeting was this weekend, very dramatic. There it was. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason reelected president with only one vote. More remarkable happened during the meeting, since the Conspiracy was a matter of opinion that turns to the search for oil in the Dragon Zone. In view of the nature of this situation, many people find it very strange. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was a great debater when he was a industrial minister of his day, and everyone really thought that this was some kind of organization policy. Sometimes the Union has been called one group case, and now the EU is dead, the United States is falling away from this too. This is a resolution, by permission of the President at the Continental National Conference: The Consequences believe that a mistake was made when a search was launched in the Dragon Zone. Today, the search and processing of these plans need to be unwinded, declaring that Icelanders do not intend to use potential fossil energy in their jurisdiction. In view of this, I'd like to ask you why. Business and industrial Minister: Has the government's policy changed? As a matter of fact, the current government has taken over the former government and will continue this search there. [[Up front.]] True, we naturally knew that the left green was against oil farming, as we can hear here in the hall. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] But if at any time we were to abandon these plans, does the Minister not believe that the Icelandic state is already subject to damage if the United States's new direction succeeds?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u16	A respectable president. About a question why. A senator who aims at government policy: No, it has not changed in the policy of the government which was documented in a government contract in any way that the government would use the use of potential oil and gas resources as soon as possible if they were found on another level. Also included in the Constitution were the regulations that we should set out for the regulations, that we would make the modifications and compensations needed to make us ready for the tests that were started in the past government. As a result, the conversion of the Union is a major surprise. Here we sit in the hall, former oil minister, the highest. Skarphéðinsson the son of Aphrodin, who was very concerned about it. But I have to recall that the licenses given in the exact period of the United States government and the left greens were not just allowed to study and work. It is very important that this be done. We've got a call to do harm's work. I cannot answer, but I will study it because, of course, it's a man's reaction to such news, especially since January 28 of the past was approved by a law at the General Assembly by all the members of the United States for the establishment of a state oil society, which is just one factor in making us ready to work the oils and participate in the Norwegian work if necessary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u17	A respectable president. It's amazing to look at this Conspiracy Conference that only proves that the company is burning the letters between them and that it is in shreds when it has disappeared from a few months' vote on accepting a legal bill to set up an oil company. It may be true that I reiterate that I am very happy that the government will continue its course in spite of this national riot. You are no longer surprised by any part that happens in there, as is the dramatic change in policy. It's completely left green because the government here once exploded in oil, and now everyone knows what happened. I don't have a direct question in the second round, but I'm glad this is the way it is and because it has no effect on the work of the government, although it is now that some small group decided in town and it would affect the work of the government. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u18	A respectable president. So I didn't come to my previous answer how irresponsible this transition in the United States is really because of the contracts and approvals granted, both for research and for processing - it's crystal clear and well covered, I asked the current chairman left green, or whatever. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in her day, for not understanding it correctly. This means that the companies that have made a contract with the Icelandic state include this process of processing and research, taking financial responsibility, and taking a risk to the studies. This is a huge cost to research. If you can meet 200 people or have a vote for 200 people, or what it was, to change and abandon commitments made in international agreements, I don't think you should agree with it, and I don't believe that members of the United States who approved the state oil society a few weeks ago would agree with that change. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u19	A respectable president. Once again, I want to make Affliction of the Affliction of Akureyri's subject on the platform and have another conversation with the highest level. Department of Social Affairs for that. The cause is the family and sexual abuse organization and has been active for 11 years. The organization has received very little support from the government, perhaps a few million a year, most I think 4 million, but it actually received a good support when the last government was under attack. There is an enormous amount of volunteer work going on there, and no one is in doubt that the organization is very important in cooperation, and we can say that the police at Akureyri, the hospital, the emergency department, the mental ward, and the female shelter have even confirmed the importance of the Akureyri Association. Now it is true that this year they will receive 3 million from the State. I figure there's about 2% of the budget going to this suit. Then I'm talking about the women's shelter and Step meet in Reykjavík, Dragon Path, and Blue. I don't know how to get it. Ministers may justify an organization like the Power getting 3 million. We were overlooked on a budget of some kind in the smaller part of the Hólar School dropout of 40 million, nobody asked for. Its subject has been discussed in the budgetary committees up and down and down and down in the Assembly Hall. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does she think this is fair? Does she feel that three million normal contributions are made to a organization like hers? I assume that she read an article that was very good to Sóley Björk Stefánsdóttir, Afrikal's teller.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u20	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. I have not read the article that the senator expected me to read in the core, but I will check at the end of the question period. I was interviewing on the lunch news, which was exactly what Afrikaans was discussing. What is being compared to, and what is being compared, areellan gangs, which are the largest cases of sexual abuse victims and those of women who suffer domestic violence or violence in close relationships. There are special funds that come with special financial support, while the funds that have gone to the Affan and Dragon Path, also referred to, come through the strength of their companions. The budget made up for the first application in union grants at the Ministry is not a small increase from last year's. However, the number of applications from a very worthy and good organization entered your partner's scholarship, and unfortunately there are limited capitals. They are tried professionally to review those applications. This was the suggestion I received, to give this amount. There was room for the Ministry when 2014 began to pass to provide some additional funds for the Afghans. But I think, as mentioned during the interview, that it is very important that we are in relation to the measures of action against violence, which I and the Minister of State and Education, are working and planning to bring into the council, that we are particularly concerned with how we want to support the members of the society that provide victims of violence and, as well as, I think very important, how we want to ensure the quality of the service rendered. There have been repeated comments from the National Reconclusion that we need to get on with the Ministry of Health in the process of making negotiations that clearly identify who should be the core of the work provided by a Community organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u21	A respectable president. It seems to me that I will come up another five times in this discourse to discuss the exact same matter, since I have no answers that I think are a bit of a sense. If there's something wrong with the Africa ministry, I feel that it should just be said. The situation is that the force cannot afford to hire an employee; they cannot even afford to hire half a job. Granted, the quality of the work may be affected. I also want to say that politics revolves around priorities, the priorities of money. I can't believe the state's gonna put 3 million in the Afghans this year, I can't believe that's the result. I didn't understand half what they said here. I want the answer to whether it's the Ministry's position and the highest. Minister to put 3 million into the Team this year. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u22	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator would not have understood what I said, for I was trying to speak clearly. We're doing a violent operation program. Under these circumstances, we must take our stand on how we want the support of free companions who have carried out various assignments around the country. We have also been making sure that cooperation between the different public services will be better, for it has shown that this results in significant results. [[Up front.]] It has also been observed, as I mentioned, that we are making higher amounts of money to two organizations that we have had years of experience in having worked very well on these projects and have taken care of the whole country. There's been a number of instances. I hope this will only explain to the senator what is involved and that we can continue to work on these fine assignments. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u23	A respectable president. As the president presented, this part of the program is called a special discussion, and it is most appropriate because it is said to be a very specific subject that we have requested for a special discussion. I'm asking the highest. Industrial Minister for this dramatic agreement with the Food Energy company and in what way the Minister justifys them, how the Minister's agreement with 400 and some million will be approved at the General Assembly, less than 700 million, depending on how it interprets, not in advance of funding, as it is recognized, but in advance of being approved by law at the General Assembly, i.e. not by any current law. How does the Minister allow agreements to make significant financial contributions without being legally established? Has the Minister made other agreements without having a valid law and only warned that the General will later agree to the law? Well, then I'd like to get some information on it. Why does the company receive this special treatment from the minister? Obviously it's a special treatment because of the agreements made with two other parties, Thorsil and Alga life, because there are no laws. The minister makes a very special decision to use matarithm than with Thorsil and Alga. Why this special treatment for mat energy, the highest. Minister? On the contrary, would not the many ties of the company with the Independence Party have been a good reason to be especially careful and to make such a deal under the council, not merely in advance that the council will accept some law at some point in the future? So perhaps the minister has studied this business so carefully? So can the minister tell us how much strength he has received from public funds and how his work has been successful? For example, have financial contributions to other business fire projects yielded the results? How does the minister explain that we are paying special attention to such activity in the vicinity of the capital? I find it hard to see that there are some innovations. It is certainly a hot waste water, but it is also done elsewhere. Here to raise a pink, but so does others. What special conditions are there that call for hundreds of millions of dollars from a fund to set up a business that does not seem to be doing anything new and is competing with others? Does this mean that we are to support projects in general from a wealth of government around the capital in the terms of the based map that are competing with companies working in the country that are not doing anything new? Or what do you think of it at the highest. Minister? Can the minister inform us of the climax because there are limits to what is permitted, even if the law was accepted unchanged from the minister? It assumes that there is a maximum third of such support. As far as I can see, the maximum level is completely new and asks if it is not to be used better because there is a maximum of 425 million, which is 425 million, on the other hand, the company should receive a training scholarship of at least 50 million. K. Is it not gone, then, not just to the climax, but to the peak? And what about those world statistics? [[The president calls.]] How have they been ousted? In this case, the world market is 6 up. ... like... fishing companies say or it's 12 of you. ...like... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The adroit for starting this discussion because it is certainly not unnecessary, given the misunderstanding presented in this brief speech of the senator. In all the basics, the senator was wrong. It is a good thing to observe that opposers of this case have worked hard to make it suspicious, and this morning the former president of a party took over. The advocate of this agreement is an example of the corruption that exists in the present government. And I must say it's a loud hit, very loud hit. When you consider the matter fairly, you will see that it is a blow to the wind. I'm going to state right here and now that this case and this agreement had received exactly the same payment in the time of the last three industrial ministers, the Katrín Júlíusdóttir, the Harðardóttir of Oddný Hardborn and the Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. It may be one of the few that the United States government and the left greener could commend, to have promoted the general law of the NGO because of investments to promote the structure of Icelandic employment. [[Up front.]] And because that case was good and looked for progress, it was adopted by all the votes of 50:0. Hv. A senator claims that these laws are no longer valid. No, they are no longer in effect because EFTA has made comments on the actions of the law and including the actions of the Watch Tower Society. The former government made a legal adjustment without reporting it to ESA. That was the situation, and the decision was made to maintain a general law code, and it is the bill before the council. The Senator asks, "Why have I brought the Algabi and Thorsil contracts to him? " That's because the law isn't in force. Why don't I bring Matorka into the council? I'll do it if I do. Senators and senators don't come with us to accept the total frame that all of this is about. On the basis of the last frame laws, six investment agreements were made, including about silica, data plant, the processing of fresh fish for export, Marmeti, the fishing industry in Sanding, which can now be said to be an existing activity in the country. When I brought the Algabi deal last year, they called me. The former three industrial ministers felt that the framework would be set because the others had come out. I brought it a bill last April, but like what. A senator remembers that during the last days of the council last year, there was not much work to be done. But then this bill was assigned to the council in September. And in this context, I would like to read a piece from a talk. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir as she argues for the importance of this legislation, by permission of the president: ▪ Once again, I stress that we try to keep the way of creation, with legislation behind it. It is also better for the minister to have legal laws behind this type of work. It is simpler in so many ways, not only to the Minister, but also to those persons who are negotiating with the government, that they do not have to have long two - sided agreements with the State, but they can only walk this far into a certain system if they meet certain strict requirements made in the legislation. This does not mean that we are showing favoritism, i.e. we're looking at the projects primarily, but not necessarily about some individual firms in the Straits of Aldulis, which can always be very difficult and delicate. That's exactly what's going on here. In the matter of debate, Food Power, the exact same protocols that have been in force for the past five years have been exactly the same. I have considered it very important to maintain harmony and neutrality in the preparation of these investment agreements, and since the beginning of 2014, I have signed five of these for the state, now the last time with the Matrix. Actually, that contract would have come under the conditions of the old law, if they were still in force, but the project will meet all the conditions set by that framework. And I allow myself again to state that all the investment agreements I have made had been made in the same way in the last administration of all three former industrial advisers. Whether or not we should have coincidences over our heads is a completely different matter. And it is important, especially in the light of this discussion, that we take it at the High Council. If we agree that we need an Idea system until our tax system, if we have anything to do with the government, we'll be on a global scale, and if we decide to have a system of willies, I'll ask: " Will men have it according to general rules like us working here to wait for Aldus's approval, or do we want to have it so that each minister can decide on the values he wants? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say, let's keep the rules in general, and as a matter of fact, we've been in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u25	Mr. President. We'll talk about indiscriminates and a firm that has been criticized for getting an international contract on top of the highest level. Minister. I want to say, first of all, that I think it's a great improvement to have framework on the element and feel that it should continue to complete the task and complete the bill now available to the council of the press. One should be able to trust that it is based on an equal and competitive principle that is the basis for its legislation on competitiveness, which is in force in the EU on such coincidences. Of course, we should take seriously the criticism that has made this particular agreement, and we should carefully examine whether anything in current legislation fell out of force in 2013 and the one we are working at this council might be improved to avoid anything that raises doubts as to whether an enterprise is at the same level. If so, we need to correct it. Certainly, it is of great interest to consider this particular company exactly what is being done in relation to other comparable companies in the country of about 12 and what innovations justifying this support. I'll be better able to think in a second speech what I think about it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u26	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this special discussion about mat energy and this requisition agreement, but in my mind we should be discussing this particular frame deal, not this particular company per se. However, the example in the contract that is to be done with that company is clearly outdone by the indiscriminates above the heads, which is why the matter will be discussed on that basis. I reiterate that there's nothing about this company in itself, it's definitely doing well and not being here at all, but the code on which this deal is based, and it's not okay. He offers a direct intervention into markets that have been free. Enterprises have already had to build up through active competition, have to be paid from their banks, not specifically knocked on the bank of the state, and obtained up to 770 million. K. A tax discount and a discount on charges. That's the point, and that's not okay with me. Then there's ground reasons in there, too. Almost all firms of a specific size can apply as long as they are not in the capital area. Of course, in this regard there has been, for some reason, in the past government and in this government, the vast majority of contracts have gone to Southland, which is in the mind of some of the fragile settlements that must be furthered, or what? [[Up front.]] It doesn't make sense to me. I see my time is running out, but I will in my second speech better review the frame law and discuss how it doesn't work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u27	V.E.G. President. With law No. 99/2010 a fine step was taken in promoting new investment and increasing innovation and employment development, which could not be benefited. They ran out during the 2013 season, just after the company mentioned here applied for incarnation. The first thing to consider when making these contracts is that they will actually pass the existing laws or, as in this case, waiting for legislation to pass through the General Assembly, and it is likely that the contract will pass through them. Second, make sure that the agreements made are fully in line with the agreements previously made. The agreement on this subject is in all aspects exactly the same set up as any relic agreement that at least the person mentioned here has seen, with the exception of the Cock Convention, which has all the greater will. Third, make sure that equality is maintained among companies. It must now be said that we are in a bad situation if we are going to start making a list of desirable and undesirable participants in national employment and allow it to influence the way we handle matters at the council. The person standing here is not interested in that kind of thing. Of course, those companies that enjoy pleasure or special measures on the part of a government fund will not always be successful. We know an example of a company whose last government - Marmeti, who lived a very high dose. This is a risk we're taking, and we're doing it with an open mind, but the main thing is that we don't start hitting the fingers of those who want to come here and establish activities in areas where unemployment is ongoing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u28	President. It has never been good for an enterprise or for an individual's aim, let alone governments, to focus on what someone else did the worst in the past. I think it's a persistent wording here at the General and a very strange definition of always talking about someone else making things worse. Rather, you should concentrate on how someone else is doing things beautifully instead of always talking about how other people did things that were previously under control. What I may find most serious about this whole thing is that the owner of the Matrix was on both sides of this huge contract, that is, the point of it, and very serious. It's so much old Iceland that you get so nervous. This has been severely criticized by the Land Association of Fishing stations, and they speak of the fact that the contract involves discrimination and interference in a competitive market. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister who follows this party whether it is in accordance with the policy and the vision of the Independence Party to differ on this basis that a person who receives 426 million in the form of discounts on taxes is seated on both sides and even meets a professional committee without telling it. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u29	V.E.G. President. Work is being done by 3rd. new songs about indiscretions. Following that work, this contract with mat energy arose and became a big subject and raised a lot of public discussions, and many questions have come up because of it. As we have noted, this is the only contract that has not been submitted to the Council while there is no law. It has been discussed with Alga Life and Thorsil and the Back Convention, and all that came in here, and the General discussed them, and the committee went through them. So, basically, the Food Convention comes around the back, as I said on the Committee. Does it require that a minister be able to make such a deal without first considering the situation? Today, there is sufficient production in existing individuals for more production of the pink and must also not be too high because of the collapse of the markets. That is why this discussion comes up, and it is natural for many questions to arise, that is exactly what has happened. Then, of course, it was hard to believe. The minister refused to come to a professional committee to explain this agreement, not even twice, but three times, but came for a fourth time to be called upon by the President of the Generals. This is the situation that exists, and a professional health committee needs to discuss the matter further and discuss it in the morning. In an Iceland lab. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the bonds of Maturo with Maize, what it is and may even be. Also, Ranni's, and most important, ask whether this company has received some government or semiofficial funding from the last few years that we really don't know about, but we need to know to make a complete picture of the whole case because the penalty is one, two and three that we need to work and finish at the Council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u30	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, which is important, about investment agreements and the equality in the development of employment in the country. Investment agreements can make a major difference in the development of employment in the country. They have been essential to investments, varied creations, and better - paying jobs, and what is most important, the basis of valuable export products that exist under the well - being of the nation. Without further development of a valuable industry based on our resources to sea and country, there will be little to improve our health, education, and welfare systems. If we are going to become competitive with other nations on a job investment, either investment agreements will need to be made to invest and create varied and well - paying jobs, just as I have come to or a general taxation system and the construction of jobs that suck an investment into our country, of course, the vision of our independents. Three last industrial ministers have called for a framework on investment agreements and are involved in the final and professional discussion. As we have seen during the last terms, we need to be equally concerned that, among other things, an investment agreement was made with a local fish stock company, and I am not aware that other fish farms have obtained such agreements, but we are certainly to be careful that it will not be wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u31	Mr. President. I find it most important in this discussion that we talk about these matters, so we want all public support to be on the basis of equality, and he does not upset the competitiveness of the existing ones. Of course, that's what we're talking about here because a country pink farm company is understandably concerned about its markets following the fact that this company, Food energy, is entering the market and is planning to produce half of what the present world market has recently received, i.e. 6 you. a ton. Then it is only natural for them to ask: What does it mean for us to have a company with this state support coming in like this, it will cause us to be able to sell into this market? We don't want inquisitors to contribute to promoting other enterprises in the same report on the market. Surely that could not be the meaning of such support. That's why it must have to be all in the overall context. But I'm stressing that I think it's much more healthy that there's a framework for such coincidences rather than taking back the custom of making deals with each company here at the General Assembly and dealing with them here. I'd like to underscore that. I think there's something here that needs to be examined more carefully, and a secretary needs a careful review of whether the company will meet what is to be done and there's no suspicion of it and there's no fish underneath a rock in that material. We'll just have to wait, and maybe take it with a little bit of girlhood and see what comes out of it. [[The president calls.]] We don't want public funds to be mistaken, so all of these things must be clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u32	A respectable president. It's been a good discussion, but I have to say, I think I'm on my own. I can't see how you can be equal if you're going to torture some people instead of everyone. It doesn't make sense. There's no way it can be done, then we wouldn't do anything else but take out this and the other business in this sector and say, "No one's got anything in this sector, now, we'll just be there. The other sector, we've got a lot of people there, we'll have to let him wait. This is bullshit. This isn't working. We have to stop this. It's no use having these coincidences. If we're going to lower taxes on a Komblet, why would some get a 50% cut of insurance and no one else? This isn't working. It won't. It was only discussed with innovation, that it was so important for innovation. This framework agreement on new investors is not for sceptical and innovation companies. Simply put, it's because companies have to have a measure of well - being of about 300 million. It is the nature of the rod of not being so big, so they will never profit from this relic agreement, they do not fit into the sun. All talk of a wide range of jobs, support and make more eggs, and not all of them in the same basket does not fit a cross-border agreement for indentations. We have to realize this, and we have to talk about a business that can work on a competitive basis, otherwise we're going a wrong way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to start with the good news, and I'm glad that 12 fish farm companies are planning on making a further investment in fish farming in the next few years. The task must always meet the general requirements of the law and be within the map in order to obtain the will, as it has been shown. An independent government committee will review whether the applicant will meet the conditions of the laws that are previously based on EU competitive policies and will follow their recommendations for Ministers. In this respect both the law and their implementation are entirely equal, and it is not possible to work out between enterprises in a random way. We need to increase our value here on the land. New investors are absolutely necessary if we are to reach set goals, and Iceland is in a bitter competition with other nations, many of which are richly involved. It appears that the government's investment agreement with the fish farm is in line with comparable government contracts. The agreements with Thorsil and Alga life have been mentioned here. Finally, I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar how he provided at 300 o'clock. a nation that if they intend to make investment agreements with the government, the presidents of an enterprise cannot be linked to governments at any time. How is that going to work out? Could we be equal if this is the course chosen? I don't think so. The main point of this and similar matters is that laws, equality, and the fact that new investors are being encouraged here in the country so that we can be competitive. We need to build here a powerful career, make valuables, thereby increase our well - being and economic growth, for the good of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u34	President. I'm going to frame my question to the Minister clearly in. I thought it was the basic policy of the Independence Party that those who want to remain in the community should do so on their own terms, not by creating an abnormal head start, as it seems to have happened in this case by sitting on both sides of the table. Then, in this context, I would like to point out that one problem of the head and growth of corruption is a lack of transparency of writing on the law in the plot. I think increasing transparency would be a great improvement and suggest that it be done to prevent such a thing from happening. I would like to hear the minister's attitude to see if there is no basis for making it easier for us to see exactly who writes the laws of the plots. I think it's very important, since it has been reported, especially in the AESCO report, that bankers often came to legalization in connection with the banks. It has been requested that the people in various sectors, which have a direct interest because the law is a specific means of counseling with writing on the law of recruitment. I'd think it would be a new thing and hopefully a different time for us senators and the public to know who writes what the law says.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u35	A respectable president. This issue is about the equality of people and businesses in the country and the natural competitiveness of the country. This is a severe intervention in the natural competitive practice of fish farming. It's not just my opinion, it's also the opinion of a national fish farm that makes harsh remarks on this contract, natural because you can ask: Is this an issue, can those who are interested in investing in something in the country that doesn't involve any special innovation just walk into the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and get hundreds of millions in agreement with the Minister, with a warning that the Council of the Council is putting some kind of law in the future? No, it's not like that. Hence, this raises questions about the special treatment of those involved. What kind of special care do these people receive, receiving a hundred million dollars contract without any law being in force there, and making a special decision that the Minister approves of it with a prior act of law? Why, while the law is not in force, can do so differently from any of these agreements, such as those of Alga Life and Thorsil, who are presented at the council and who have to endure discussions and criticism? It is clear from this discussion why this company received this special treatment. That is because this amount of $100 million can't stand any opinion. The main priorities in this matter are that they must make serious comments about the fact that this support is being given. I encourage a committee holding the matter at the council to stand up and make sure that public funds are not treated that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u36	A respectable president. Whether companies have a head for an invitation or not, such as it is. paritaprevir A very good question has been given Ólafsdóttir during the discussion. I think we should be talking about her. I explained earlier that I thought that it was best for me to see Iceland's tax system and economic environment on a global scale, as if it had actually become a good year 2007 when my virgin debate at the council was just that I welcomed the fact that the Straumsvík Empire wanted to break free from its special contracts because the tax system was on a global scale. That's where we want to head back. In the meantime, we need to answer what we want to do in the meantime. We want to expand our investment here, we want to increase the freedom of people, and we want to get more work done. What tools and tools do we have to do that? Yes, we have the European Union's general rules of government development based on based map. A person can have a view of which land to be included in the based map and which he is not, based on the general rules, or we can have the arrangement for ministers, whoever it is, to decide who is acceptable to them. I don't want a system where I'm put in a position to have the opinion that owners are acceptable and which are not. I'm sorry for the insurrections that have been presented here to make it relevant. The reason this contract has not yet arrived for the council is because it has just been made. It will also deliver a bill about Silicor and United Silicon and, of course, we were going to see the progress of this bill, which is now in the final meters, and it looked like it was just very comfortable, and how it would depend. [[The president calls.]] Why? Because these contracts have all been made guided by that bill, exactly as it was here during the last term. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking men to approach this in a perfunctory way, watch this out of the big picture, but not from some club that's not just a tasteless but completely wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u37	Mr. President. I've allowed myself to ask for the highest court. Ministers with regard to the pension fund and their possible means of making housing, as well as their investment environment and their work on that subject. Fortunately, the national pension fund is strong and has 150% of GDP in pure property to meet commitments. The foundation of the funds is still in the process that when you look at industrial expenditures and yielding beyond paid pensions, they are newly investing about 100 to 120 billion a year, grossly calculated, over the years, so that there is a large size in our economy and with a currency head on a population and limited investment. Where there are relatively few enterprises registered in the stock market, etc. will normally discuss how this large size would be placed in the economy, at least During the years that are closed to their investments abroad, or very limited, they can do so. In fact, strangely speaking, pension funds have sold quite a lot of direct or indirect investments through handing over enterprises, stocks, and assets in companies with a foreign income flow, another story. Much has been discussed about the possibility of a pension fund on the premises. In 2011 the laws were changed to open the way for a pension fund to finance or invest from an incident in housing. The least important was the thought that the pension fund could, in some respects, be involved in improving rent - rent conditions or building housing for elderly people. So I've allowed myself to ask the highest. Minister if he had a discussion with the pension fund or with the current government has continued his discussions with the pension fund on the possible way to their benefit in this regard. In the workplace, some have talked about this and have no place, although the Helgi in Gou has been called, which has encouraged the pension fund and the labour market's parties to legalize the resources of pensions. And there is no shortage, as we know, the situation is extremely difficult to store, especially for tenants, the lack of rents, and the price of rent is very high and that is why. Secondly, I've asked the highest. Ministers on how to work on reimburse the law on investment rights of pension funds. For a long time, such work has been going on, not enough on the overall results. There have been temporary strategies, such as emptying the resources of pensions to purchase in unscheduled letters from 10% to 20%. Today, they are in a state of dislocation of their authority to record the side market. Finally, it would be fascinating to hear from the highest level. A minister may take a little reflect on how he cares for himself at this point, as it is possible, that the investment environment of the pension fund will be in the coming years, especially if it is now possible to save money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u38	Mr. President. The investment environment for the pension fund is of great importance to all of us and how we manage to increase the funds entrusted to them. It seems that in 2014, however, it was quite good and practical for the pension system and that in many cases there have been good fruitage that really matters to all of us. Regarding whether the government or the minister had a discussion with the pension fund on how their possible way to solve the shortage of apartment housing in the country, especially in the capital area, the person here has not been assigned to such an event. However, there is nothing in itself that prevents the pension fund from remaining active, for example, in providing loans for housing. However, this would not be very compatible with the upcoming debate, that it is important to have such tenants or the owners of an apartment house, not profitless communities, because the pensions must have their own fruits. In terms of reimbursement of the pension fund, this work has proved to be a significant challenge and has been rather slow than a mention of a reimbursement of investments for some time. Although the end of the work is sparking and I hope to introduce the economic and business committee's state of affairs at this spring Summit, and it's aimed at bringing a bill to the General Parliament. Comments are now being worked, and talks will be consulted by stakeholders during spring and summer. In terms of the financial investment environment of the dierent funds, it is said that the head of the currency has been deputized by the Committee called suggestions for new arrangements, with increased emphasis on precautionary thinking. The motion assumes that pension funds are provided with extra allowances for investments, i.e. that there will be a quantitative limit for the species set out, such as in bonds, stocks, share certificates, that it is, in fact, possible to increase the share of the total ownership collection, as certain rules for precautionary measures are being taken. Then I assume that derivatives will be handled in a more detailed way by the current proposals and that the pensions will be expected to be given the authority to lend the stocks. According to the Commission, these ideas are all in extraction, of course, for the pension fund to have a profound impact on the development of the economy, both soon and long, after the recovery of the currency, this capital master, and for which it is also not easy to avoid the possibility that the funds will have a major impact on the evolution in the off. The key point is that here are good investment options, economic growth, support for employment and structure, and that there is a market where pension funds can be involved. Obviously, we need to open up our funds gradually so as to be able to distribute our possessions better than we have experienced in the past few years. Its importance was well expressed by the collapse of the financial system; then the relative value of foreign possessions, including some of them, grew. of the Icelandic crown's fall. It revealed the importance of the risk distribution, but even if we have to put it first in a way that allows the pension fund to be restored to investing abroad, we will most likely need to have some speed bumps on it, as some might call it. [[The president calls.]] It must be one of our main priorities to restore to normal conditions. It's not just about breaking up the house and the snow hanger, it's about to do it so that the pensions get more opportunities in this context. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u39	A respectable president. When investments of pension funds come in here, I can't afford to remind myself that the sacred duty of pension funds is to make sure that pensions are paid at the age of retirement. It's the primary obligation of the pension fund, but as the situation is now being created, unfortunately, a bit compressed national risk and must in some way make sure that the pension funds get out of this environment. The Pension Funds probably have the financial value of the Federal Bank in the bank accounts of 130 and140 billion, which is too much in bank accounts. The financial investment of the funds is probably too high, and when currency capitals are removed, a pension fund must be placed in place. I'm not gonna keep this any further until now, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u40	Madam President. This is an interesting exchange of thought. I agree with it. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason spoke in her short but fine speech. It was called at the end of a talk. The financial and economic minister who set me on fire to come up here. I noticed that the highest. One minister put it so important that it was important to open the pension fund and even had to do so, even though the ancient snow - handed arm had not been completed, I was understood by the highest degree. Ministers say so, or take care of the weary. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is possible for the pension fund to receive some kind of priority when it comes to decommissioning a currency burglar.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u41	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, they were out of the light of the position as far as they could. Frankly, they do not have much news. I think it's a thought for me to go to the top. There is no discussion with the pension fund about their possible entrance into the premises. It may be the highest. It was a social minister's. I don't think that it should be given up that the pensions remain, so I want to put it this way rather than again or again, the participants in some way financed the building of the necessary housing in the country. Of course, the Pension Fund did so for years and decades. Today, more times and banks are turning on to lend money to housing and pension funds from a country at the same time as the acute need for a public tenet, especially on the southwest corner, and the need for a suitable apartment for elderly people in many parts of the country. One might feel that this would be a detailed project for the pension fund. I don't think it's a satisfactory argument that all tenants are supposed to be non-profit unions. The money tied in the building of the house is likely to have some good fruitage. No better option is to hand it over to private agents, fine real estate companies, who exploded out of bankruptcy through the banking system. So they're just supposed to take care of it? They will not want less than pension funds, which would be merely seeking some modest profit from the money they put into such tenants. I agree that it must, of course, map the very investment environment of the pension fund simultaneously and even to some extent before men take decisive steps in the deduction process. If they are heading for their pure money approaching 200% of GDP, everyone will see how large it has become if that pole is the main bait of our economy. [[The president calls.]] Not only do we have to put aside some material that can cause us to lose sight of it but we also need to make sure that our efforts to do so are balanced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u42	Madam President. First of all, the currency lords that we might have to call the capital heads, my words must not be understood, so that they stand to provide reserves for a pension fund before we have reached the root of the problem, which lies in the snowgown in uninhabited wearers, and then a complete solution for this domestic pressure, which is part of the need to be able to place their risks more widely. On the contrary, I believe that the key to lifting our heads and letting pensions back out of the country is to make a success of what is part of the reef and the snow - handed. That's fine. With respect to the pension fund in the second place, I agree with the views presented here, it's a concern how much of the funds are in our relatively small economy. There is a significant risk that the money in which you are locked up could lead to the production of the vaccine. However, there seems to be no clear indication that this is the start of any small event, but the involvement of the pensions in the apartment market has been important. They have had an important role, and I do not disagree with those who have recommended that they remain there. A matter of opinion, though, is how much the State needs to have more or more involved in it. It is true that this has been shown by an apartment loan fund, how it has been financed over the years. Since then, the financial funds have also lent funds to sources in particular, and they have the legal right to invest in associates, many of whom are doing just that work. I think they're quite large when it comes to checking through the various organizations that are active in this market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u43	Madam President. I've allowed myself to ask some questions to the highest level. Economic and financial ministers involved in the type of payment that collects in the government on the basis of insurance bills. It's like the highest. A minister notices these requests in particular what we can call the upper law or the older law of the workforce. The reason for my inquiry is that I believe that we are leading this terms, at the latest at the beginning of the next, the reduction of insurance costs, and I have certain ideas about how to make that reduction. So that I can look into it at the High General Assembly, I need the numbers I've asked the highest. Minister for. As we know, the insurance fees are divided into different fees. The largest part, the lion part, is the overall insurance bill. It releases 5.3%, or if there's 5.29%, and then there's natural-specific job insurance fees at 2%. Other fees are smaller. There has been a agreement between the government and the labour market partners that the collected of these activities is used mainly to cover the costs of the labour market. The cost of unemployment following the 2008 collapse has been most significant. At that time, it was necessary to take full control of the measures that had to be taken, including those involved. big pay on unemployment benefits. I think that's when the cost was raised by more than 3%, and then it's done better. As early as the previous government, though, the predicted 14% unemployment never licked more than 10% and became about 8% at the most in a year. It is now obvious, however, that everything is going according to the current work programme and that there is an increase in sectoral activities, a greater supply of jobs, and thus a lower need and cost of unemployment. Business council has considered that since the last election, there are overpaying the equivalent of 9 billion on this basis. I believe, however, that according to the law's sound, this will lead to the inevitable reduction of these payments. I think it would be wise for the Council to consider whether it is possible to plan on creating from the reduction in economic incentives for an enterprise to employ those who, in particular, are more difficult at work, i.e. those in the range I'm asking about. I'm not gonna ask the highest. Minister out of it, but I believe there will be rules to be as righteous as any. In order to get a good look at this, however, I need these numbers, and I know the highest. A minister will be glad to be angry with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u44	Madam President. It asks how much insurance fees are paid for by people 60 years of age and older, 65 years of age and older, 67 years of age and older and 70 years of age. I just need to read the answer. As asked, it is best to review this in the same order. For 60 years and above, the number is 26.053, i.e. 13.01% of the population. The insurance bill is 8,548,138,356k. which is 13.05% of the price. For 65 years and above, the number is 12,330, i.e. 6.06%. Insurance is 3,144,305,444K. which is 4.8% of the insurance fee. For 67 and over, the number is down to 763, i.e. 3.88%. The insurance bill is 1,661,946,605k, i.e. 2.54%. For 70 and over, the number is 3,606, i.e. 1.8% of population. The insurance bill is 516,456,797k, i.e. 0.79% of insurance fees. This response is based on the answer the government taxpayer gave to the Ministry of Economics for the inquiry. That's how it's been ripped apart and how much information is drawn up. It is shown in response to a taxpayer's fee that there is no disassociation of insurance pay on the employee's salary. For these reasons, insurance income had to be checked on individual tax returns in 2014. As a result of 2013, there were certain revenue weapons at the pay gate of the front, which included payments that pay on insurance bills, i.e. incomes in box 21, motor vehicles strengths in box 22, carloads in box 134 and calculated bills in box 24. That's the basis of this information. Other than that, I wanted to say something about the idea that took place. A senator here tore up my view of how to help those who work hard in a labour market and whether the insurance bill can play on it. In my mind, though, it is equally important to consider how we can reduce income benefits in this group of people because in this age range, up to 70 and even over 70, many people have a fairly limited pension rights, and when they go to the job market, they are subject to extreme losses. If this group is to be improved especially, there might be some ways to reduce the loss of income, especially for those with the smallest pension rights. While it may be hard to imagine whether to cut down the insurance fee on account of this age group, I feel that it would be a big problem with the insurance system. Otherwise, the insurance fee is desirable to decline rather than the actual one. There have been some legal reductions, but the question is, would there not be any further space in the years to continue lowering it? Part of the discussion must then be the non-employment insurance bill or the earmarked job-free insurance or the birth policy fund, not least the overall share of the insurance bill. Can we not agree that this portion of the insurance bill, if not all, needs to go to the finance of the social security system? [[The president calls.]] This is important because there have been a lot of tensions over the years in terms of how much of the insurance budget depends on the funding of that system and has often caused tension in dealing with the labour market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for extremely clear answers, as well as for quite impressive efforts to present this challenge. He did so very well, and in that way I understood it well. The information he gives here surprised me a little bit. I didn't quite realize that it was going to go so fast, but it really brings me to the conclusion that the idea was the highest. At least a minister did not take a bad look at it very seriously. I am also grateful to the highest degree. Ministers for, without specifically asking him, granted us the privilege of allowing the council to peer into his mind on this matter. As I said, he felt positive. It should naturally be included in the discussion that this funding might be further used to reduce the decrease. That's a great idea, but what I'm up to is not just improving the terms of these groups. Of course, it's up to me to create a position so that these people can make money at work, but I also think that we and the workforce will be increasingly needed. It's like the highest. A minister knows that his age brings experience, calmness, and meditation, and such ones are always needed. Indeed, experience in a job market is that people of that age can do even better jobs. Didn't the U.S. Marshal here tell you the other day that one of the things that are critical of the governments of last year was what they would take as young assistants? I recall the example of many of them. Thank you very much. A minister for this answer and has numbers in his hands to deal with it later, perhaps once this has been developed further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u46	Madam President. Yes, we've taken up those answers as best we can. There is a limit, or perhaps a problem, to answer this precisely, but I have made clear the reasons why the information is summarised and can be summed up with force. A senator also surprised me to see how fast this money and ratio fall as people move toward 70 years of age. It's the idea of the night. A senator is thus prepared to help older ones to keep a job and to get a job. I feel very valuable in this assignment and realize that the experience of this older generation is very valuable, not just in the administrative system, but in all places of employment and elsewhere in a job market. I believe, however, that we are confronted with this, regardless of how we can better care for these groups for employment tools, that it is characteristic of the upper working years and those who are retired that too many have too low pension rights. The changes in social security rights over the past few years have been most of them in an effort to correct it, but the system that we have today has become quite complicated. Since that has been the case with the Ministry of Health, it has been working under the leadership of Pétur H. Blöndalur and hopefully there will be some suggestions from where this situation can improve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u47	A respectable president. I had a word with the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers during the days on customs policy, especially since the Minister was moving ideas on how to stick here in long-term customs protection agreements and skyscrapers on farms, I talked to him about the customs protection in the country of chicken industry. I don't think it has any argument in the natural protection we want for traditional Icelandic agriculture, typical Icelandic family nests, dairy readys, sheep farms, etc. Of course, this is primarily part of industrial activity, which is being totally incompetent with heavenly customs on consumers. What I'm asking the highest. The secretary of finance is mandatory, it's French fries. I think I'll ask some other questions on customs for both him and a marine economist, in this case, on the issues behind these customs. I think this product is 76% for toprofen, but I think domestic product is only enough for about 5% of the market. Not even the 5% produced here are over their heads made from Icelandic potatoes. I don't think they're always the most practical ingredient for this production. Anyway, even though it's an alasian raw substance, it's only about 5% of the market. A person may not seem very fortunate to pay 95% of the market to 100% to support no more extensive production than this. If people want to support this production, would it not be closer to doing so with the direct support of producers rather than tolling all the public with these high customs? That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of the evidence behind this customs. Is it laid out on a health basis because these foods are somehow less acceptable than other foods? Is this a place to be a place of protection for agriculture? Or is this a clean, smart, income-freaking operation? For us to have a little extra time when the matter is no bigger, it would not be out of the way. Secretary of finance after his own views, since they have not been mentioned in the discussion, on making a 15 - year long contract on customs protection for agriculture. Does he like such an idea in a prince's hand?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u48	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry. Before I begin to answer the request for customs in French fries and for the purpose of customs, it is better to recognize that the processing of the reply revealed that there are conflicting views on the exact significance of the French fries'words. In many parts of the world, other types of potato products depend on those words, e.g. what we call mashed potatoes and other products made from potato flour or even dough. The financial and economic notice revealed that French potatoes produced in this country are sliced or cut down to something that might be called striped and frozen to protect against damage. This is what counts the toll category, how it is defined accurately, and therefore it is referred to here. In fact, we have an example in the history of this decision on how to manage stress. What's French fries customs like? According to Article 5. a valid toll layer should be payable to the products transferred into the state customs area as prescribed in an Annex I of the Law. French fries are brought in frozen, scrawny, or cut, and they are under toll plates in 2004. 1002. They may also be imported frozen, boiled or unused under the toll code 0710/1000 but in small amounts. Since the majority of the import is included in the first toll file number, this will then be confined to the French potatoes that are moved into that number. A general toll on the import of French carers, berry per cent, is placed on a taxable product or delivery of 76%, as observed for the starter. [[It's been taken up by: Wow.]] However, the import of French potatoes by EFTA free market agreements to Canada, Colombia, Peru, and China is 46%, with considerable differences and benefits for immigrants who eventually use the consumers to receive this product from that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u49	Animal transfer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u50	Second, the senator's inquiry involves the question of what is the objective of customs laid on French fries. It is to answer to customs in general that they are asked to be warned about the import of the product in order to obtain the state's funds. Of course, customs are often put in place to protect specific production. The Council has a decision for government administration, and it is in general up to determine which taxes to collect, whatever names they are called. I'm not going to go into any more detail on these technical matters, I'm just gonna come into the general discussion of customs as a matter of course. A senator is calling for. First, I'd like to say for long-term contracts with the agriculture of the country that I believe the food production in this country needs a long-term vision, a management security based on contracts that cover longer than one or two years of age. I believe that there is a very good reason to provide food for the environment in this country with contracts that are fundamentally similar to those that have been present in the market agreements up to now. However, the precise design of these objects can always be debated. In other areas, and in general, this is a very gross form of customs that affect food and tolls on various industrial products, such as agricultural and industrial products. If we take our agricultural products slightly aside, we will have our industrial products and the customs below them. I have to say just as I am surprised that, although I have tried to keep a good eye on the money money for quite some time, when I realize that the entire toll income is only only about 2.53/4 billion because of everything other than what is involved in agriculture, and there are toll incomes for clothing and shoes just about $1 billion. This tells me that it can have great opportunities for simplicity and economy for immigrants and for the benefit of consumers in our country to make significant arrangements in our customs. [[The president calls.]] I can discuss it further in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u51	V.E.G. President. How interesting it has been to listen to the grandest listening! A financial minister who is also chairman of the Independence Party teaching himself a bit of freedom tells us at the General in response to this inquiry how much customs are laid on the others and on these products. Well, in my brief head in this regard, I just want to ask the highest. Minister on to one. One is the protection we put on Icelandic production, take it out of parentheses, it can be right, that's what most countries do, but when it comes to the lack and complete lack of goods that are then delivered - we can take some chicken products. I bought myself a bull's hag last year, which was from Spain, to remember, and it was almost as good as Icelandic. Why was it at a similar price, Mr. Honorable President? It's because the government fund put so much toll on it. Then my question is, when there is no product missing, why can't the Icelandic consumers enjoy it at a lower price while the shortage is missing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u52	Madam President. I must agree with the last words. Minister. I'm surprised if the total amount of tolls and import fees is so low. Not to be overlooked, however, is the recent Chinese holiday deal that has just been taken a large section of them. But I would say to the highest. Minister that first the situation is this, and he is as if we are eager to simplify all the systems that he comes near and feels complete about it, including me in individual branches without me going into it, he has chosen an opportunity to do so there. I'm the highest. A minister to make his hands rise above his sleeves, to clean up the mess, to cut most of it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u53	A respectable president. Often, little you roll with a heavy load. As far as I can hear, this small request for French fries has called for a financial minister's declaration of a major review of the customs system. I'm glad you're here. I think it's a project we're supposed to join together on, to cancel a lot of unnecessary bags that pay relatively little money, and to aim for vague goals. A minister rightly points out that these are mainly two products, industrial products, and agricultural products. I think that far too many products we're doing as agricultural products are actually just industrial products. Because they want to establish a common partnership with Icelandic agriculture, there are many nonrelated products being covered. I'll ask the Minister to sharpen it. Is customs on these products a talisman? Is this to protect the Icelandic industry? Does he think it's wise when she has only 5% of the market? Are these blessed potatoes industrial products or agricultural products? I think that we often place too often agrito on something that's just industrialized and that has nothing to do with agriculture. We may first concentrate on getting them down, for all of us certainly want to have specific barriers on Icelandic agriculture, though it is my conviction that we are living in long - term contracts, indeed, to ensure the survival of farmers, not to ensure that the permanent peaks, but to aim for such long - term contracts to bring them down tolls, consumers to profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u54	Madam President. It's been a fun discussion, and it's done well. In terms of transport costs and customs, I missed receiving as much support as I feel at the council in this discussion about cleaning up the customs system when we were canceling our product fees, including the sugar tax. The sugar tax obviously had symptoms of being a income fee, and in the other side, it was to reach some public health goal. To me, this was mainly a tax in homes for their purchases, and it was by the box at the grocery store first and last. As for the customs, I look at it this way: I was surprised when I dived into the income side of the budget how little toll is given in general. It must be noted, however, that tolls are largely also magnifiers, not just petals, and thus can directly prevent import. This does not tell the entire story. All the goods that can't fit on the basis of quantity are apart from these numbers. Still, the numbers tell a lot of story. About half of these 51⁄26 billion are food products and half are at the top of a variety of industrial products. Of these, clothing and shoes are about 1 billion, and then there are only about 1,5How-2 billion left, and I'll let myself talk about this in relatively busy numbers, and there's an incredibly low number compared to the complex system that exists to maintain surveillance and, in view of all the sectoral efforts to enter the correct customs reports, etc. Even though we should always try to get something for reducing customs to treat foreign countries, as the director of OECD has often pointed out, it is simply good in itself to eliminate customs as when men disarm. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u55	Madam President. I've been willing to ask questions for the highest degree. Industrial and commercial secretary for the state of electronic energy in the northeastern part of the country. The first two questions are as follows: 1st What's the Minister's assessment of the state of electronic energy in the Northeast, i.e. The area dependent on electricity transport from Lax Curbourg, the Oxfjörður to Kopasker, and the Redfarves, through Sturbourg and Langanes to the Thord and Langanes Beach as far as Bakafjord? 2. Is there a plan to correct the lack of transport capacity and limited safety of the system in the above - specified areas of employment development and development for cleaning? As we can see from the questions, there is a question that is being asked about a condition far from acceptable. All aspects of the matter are involved, but especially in two aspects, the lack of transport capacity and the lack of safety. The state of this area is about a number of parallels to the Vestjörður. This is not a circular area. It is a long line from one of the starting points, and it has an endpoint that makes it impossible to transmit electricity from another direction if there is a malfunction. This truly stands for cleaning. Thus, in the industry at Thors Harbor, where there is the most efficient activity in the region, the fishing industry, and a lot of freezing, the electricity of the dams and all in the middle of the day can't be controlled at the most. This leads to an insecurities that try to ensure some minimal security there is expensive and much backup. This situation was a reminder of concern over the running or flooding of the Glacier in the United States during the summer, and it was seen that if we were to break the line at Axengrom, there would be a terrible situation in the area in the east. It should be noted specifically that this is not a problem that there is not enough energy in itself on the main transport system from the Crates or the Salmon inactivations it and the east of this corner. We're not talking about very large numbers in megawatts. It is also not that there are any differences or problems with how to lead the electricity around the area. There is no disagreement over the line lines or ground - string areas that, for example, are above the Axes. The problem is, there's not been enough money in this system in the past few years. Of course, the key to improvement is to strengthen and increase the transport capacity at first after the current route, secondly to complete the circuit cycle by linking weapons farms to Bakkafjordur, and third, the production of the region in some megawatts could be considered to be significantly improved by the situation. As a result, I have asked the highest. Minister: 3. Is a minister willing to appoint a team of workers or an electronic group in this area, comparable to those who have performed electronics in the West since 2009? [[The president calls.]] That has been an excellent result or, at least, a substantial one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator in particular for this inquiry. I share with him various views and concerns about the electronic security in the North East. To answer the questions of the senator, I'm not going to repeat them, the Landsnet electronic transport system can be divided into two parts of the north, one by linking Kaltera to the base line line, the Krita line 1 connects the Crooka to the Ranger Stadium in Akureyri and the Cruces line 2 to the River Valley. On the other hand, there are 66 kilowatts and 33 kilowatts, which travel from the Cradle to the Laxárian inactivation and continue to Kopasker's. At the same time, there is a link to Theist smoke, Lindabrek, and the Silver Star, as well as a 33 - kilowatt line from Laxárization to Húsavík. In Kopasker, landnet's delivery site is located, from where there are 33 kilowatts owned by Rarisk to Raufarway, 19 miles [19 km] in cables, and 10 miles [10 km] in airline. Similarly, the 33 - kilowatt law is owned by Rarisk to Thors Harbor, 52 miles [52 km] on a ground cord laid after the ice storm in 1955, and 5 miles [5 km] in an airline laid in 1991. From Thorsbourg, we have a ten - pound [12 kg] earth cord to Backfjord as a second use. If we look at the settlement, the transport capacity in the area is very limited, similar to that in most areas of the country, except for the southwest corner. That's right. Senator, there's no ringlinks like it was in the West. Is really striking when you watch the electrical distribution system on the land as to what is missing. On the other hand, looking to the national part of the system, the delivery safety and quality of electricity are limited by long-range transports connected to the weak main transport system. The current pressure in the area is that in Lindabrek, the Silver Star, and Kopasker, we have a maximum pressure of about 1 megawatts. At Red Harbor, the maximum pressure is just within 2 megawatts, and the maximum pressure on Thors Harbor is now about 6 megawatts. The delivery capacity for this whole system is very limited beyond current use. Of course, this is unacceptable. That's why we're asking why. Second, a senator is planning to work things out. To answer, if you look at Landsnet's system plans, from 20141⁄223, there are specific projects that aim to strengthen this part of the country by improving its supply safety and increased transport capacity. These aims are to link the planned industrial region on Backka to the main transport system, link Theistaremory activation, build the Cruces Line 3 and add links to Húsavík. In addition to these projects, there is further support for the main transport system to be considered. These include strength between the Krpanes and the Akureyris and an opinion of links between southwestern and Northeast countries through explosions. This may be the project that would be the most controversial in all of this. In order to improve the need for improvement in this region, I made the last September appointment for a group of men. A senator is asking if I have plans to give orders. He was appointed in September 2014 to see exactly how to correct the lack of transport capacity and limit the delivery of the electrical energy system in the area. That group has already begun its operation. Since the work has just begun, it is too early to accurately determine the plans for improvement but it is assumed that the first suggestions of the material will be available later in the year based on the work of the staff. This group has eight agents, from the Power Institute, the North Energy, the Fleet, the Northern Parliament, and the Tirenes Storm, the Western Island Ice Association, the Rark, the Landsnet, and Langanesville, the Svalbard Wrest and the Truffier. If I can't go over my assignments now, I can finish it in my later answer. It is first to collect regular information on the development of policy-making, the quality of electricity and the installed reserves on the North East, on the other hand, through the statistics of electronic energy companies and by surveys of user attitudes; second, to review the transport and distribution instruments' plans for building and improving the electrical energy system and timing and setting of priorities; thirdly, to monitor the national modeling mechanism because of the potential concentration of the transport system for Northeastland; and fourthly to have initiative that in the next four years there will be a special framework for electricity production and electrical transport at the Northeast to the lower and greater efficiency. We estimate that the counseling team will meet at least twice a year, returning before October 1 each year a factory and business secretary's report on the testing of the above factors. [[The president calls.]] The first meeting was in November of Húsavík and is our next scheduled meeting in spring. [[The president calls.]] This is done by the same ideologies as the Western Committee. A senator referred to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u57	V.E.G. President. First only in a humorous tone, it's going to be the highest. Ministers very well do as they did during the last term, as described here, ordering a team for electronic energy at the northeast corner as they were done for the West. Now I don't know exactly if there's been a proposal from the West Coast team, but not long ago, a major station in Bolungarvík, which proved to be more effective in power outage a few days ago, only a few seconds ago, until the station came in and assured electricity that I'm reminded of everything that wasn't here. Therefore, I rejoice that a minister appointed this group because the issue is urgent on the northeast corner as well as on the northeastern corner. An example of the fishing factory can be set up by electricity, which has far greater costs for incineration than other factories but is now competitive. [[The president calls.]] I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the minister to have this group work faster because of the urgency of the project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u58	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Of course, that makes me happy. A minister has already appointed a group to this matter. I've missed it, but it's only very useful that he's had his first meeting. It will be exciting to see what suggestions he makes in his first report on mapping the problems in this area, which will then be released in October of this year. I'm stressing that I think it's important to watch the state of this area quite specifically, and then I'm talking about the line from the Laxá, which is certainly for both the Landsnet and the Rark as a team, and the east of Bakkafjörður, and I'm not mixing up with the solutions that are involved in dealing with other and larger figures related to the strength of the globe or the settlement line, I'm not talking about a dog over explosionand. It does not in itself have anything to do with this discussion because the problems are very easily solved with the production that, despite all of its involvement in the North and/or by adding. Because the shoe squeezes here on the transport capacity and the delivery security of this long isolated non-ringal route. I certainly hope that there will be some fairly drastic and progressive suggestions in the reports in October immediately and that they will be followed, that we will see some things going on. As we have seen, some progress has been made by the work of the Vistjörður Conference Group. I have observed this work from the very beginning, and I have read each year the reports from there. However, while the basic problem remains that the Western world is not a round region, and not enough of it being produced inside the region, which is quite the same as on the northeast corner. Still, this is a well - solved case with no adverse cost as long as it is placed in proper priority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u59	A respectable president. I have high hopes for the work of the Outfit. The example from the West shows that when you lie down on this, the locals, the shipping companies, local companies - in the North East Committee, representatives of the Western Isthmus Society, who operate in the fishing factory at the Thors Sea. We've been talking to them about how we can fix this. Legally, a system development is required to initiate larger projects from the enterprises. It is a great expense that people can have opinions about whether to end up in the first company that is busy with electricity or whether we need even to consider that the changes in the electronic law with the aim of making this so that it is not the one to clear up the path that needs to be taken care of all the cost. I believe this must be one of the things to be considered. I completely believe that with the example set by the Vestfjörður Commission at her good work, there has been some improvements. They have been in such a way that they agree on which way to go. The missions are attacked according to the order of what is most important and which measures are made to improve. This is an endless task. I reiterate that I expect the work of the group and will keep the council informed, as has been done by the annual report made by the Western Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u60	V.E.G. President. I have a question for the highest level. Social and housing minister on the Baut's situation. and in general about the status of housing partners and the solutions produced by the government, as well as the conditions of an apartment loan fund with a time bomb in its hands in this regard. Over the years, especially after collapse, much has been discussed about the importance of a wide variety of dwelling forms and the equal status of tenants and farmholders and the owners of apartments for the support of the State. In recent years, the special form has been in control and often thought of as an investment just like a home, and this has been because of the Icelandic crown's leaky position and difficulties in ensuring its success and stability in other ways. The Farming Team is a company that would allow the older people of this country to provide housing for the quality of the home where the right to live would depend on secure housing. Today, this partner is in about 540 apartments, but after a crash, inflation resulted in a higher price - secure loan, and housing costs increased accordingly. It has been observed that the payments of individual apartments have risen from one hundred and twenty-two hours. up to 180 up. K. per month. It is natural to say that it is excluded for pensioners, individuals or low-payers to pay 180 points. K. per month at expenses. The question is, How do we react to this problem? The company has about 65% of its apartments. The estate goats can cancel their home contract and have the right to get paid out of the estate at the latest within a year of resignation. The Society as well as others had the expectation of subsequent action by the current government, i.e. To bring down the trespass of the house's house, that it should reach unto the company. But for some incomprehensible reason, they did not reach the Bústa, the Social Services Agency of students, or the Bautilisation Society. These housing partners were left behind, and they sat in an unsettled garden. This has led to the crisis of the union and, in fact, to some of the local communities. It is important to look for ways to solve the problem. That's why I ask questions to the highest level. Ministers what she intends to do in this crisis, and why housing partners do not enjoy the correction. Also, whether she's not worried about this farm plan, which is actually very exciting but is now in this trouble. And if there's any reexamination of the law with regard to these organizations. Because I know the highest. Minister has spoken very highly of this form. It seems to me that it is being destroyed by the inactivity of the government. At the latest, what's the right place to live in housing partners for interest or rent money? [[The president calls.]] Is there a plan that if you live in a Bulgarian camp, you will be able to obtain housing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u61	A respectable president. Thank you for asking why. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Hannesson of Hele. It asks me, " Am I planning to use myself for a solution to the Baut's problem? ' and then in what way. It should be. A senator recognized as the former minister of this seminar class that I am not permitted to comment on unique matters that may come on my table as a minister and therefore I will not express myself on the position of the individual debt of the apartment loans. I'd like to say, though, that I have emphasized that the funds work out of debt in accordance with the laws and regulations it makes. 3 mg. Section 3. legal in correcting insurance mortgages directly shows that despite the direct or indirect loans made in behalf of individuals, correction does not reach the legal entity, including those in housing communities. The case is at the top of the story. Financial and economic ministers. So I cannot help but refer to what he has already said on this subject and have been very successful here at the council. In terms of housing partnerships, it is being concluded on the bill to legalize change of staff housing legislation and plan to submit it to the 1st of April. Building the bill was made up of the proposals that have already been made in a report on the provision of housing projects, as well as those that have been consulted by the largest housing partners, i.e. Bust in Reykjavík, Bustau in Akureyri, and Bumans. The primary objective of the bill is to make it easier for housing partners to serve in Iceland according to the government's objective that the country enjoys housing security according to individual needs. So the bill is designed to promote sustainable housing partnerships in Iceland and is thus endeavoring to improve their multiplicity by assigning them to make decisions on a number of factors that could affect their business, in effect, that need to be considered in a more precise way than by the law. The bill also emphasizes that housing partners are involved in their members, so it is important that they be able to make decisions that will impact the quality of their partners for a longer or shorter time. Nevertheless, I believe it is necessary to legalize certain activities that could contribute to the sustainable operation of housing partners along with the maintenance of their business. It is therefore recommended that housing partners be forbidden by the bill to be paid for the benefit of money or for any type of profit in the company. Instead, there is expected to be a payoff for the growth and maintenance of the company, such as loans. In addition, it is proposed that housing partners will be forbidden to negotiate the salary of a home-making company in their agreements and housing contracts, but experience has shown that buying may prove to be very burdensome to partners and particularly when market conditions are difficult and many farm clothes are asked at the same time that the company buys from that farm on the basis of a purchase. In addition, it is suggested that housing partners be required to perform a routine assessment of their financial situation, a commitment to the activities of the society, but such a routine assessment could lead to the intervention of the financial community before it is introduced, and it may also be useful to inform members of the individual organisation's situation. Also, there are provisions to review and annual accounts and that housing partners can further finance themselves by creditors or other credit institutions but may also have access to funding or other financial contributions and should have no basis to receive such support. It is my hope that the changes proposed in the bill will, among other things, enable housing partners to establish a better organization for their business. This allows members of the community to have space and a chance to behave the rules of the company and a business model in a way that they think is best for the company and that society's interests are best protected. Also, I suppose the periodic assessments I mentioned about housing partners will lead to a financial emergency. We will have the opportunity to review this when the bill comes for discussion at the council. As to a question, why? The senator's rights to living in housing partners for interest or rent money they have rights to grow, but he may be more suitable for future housing benefits, in view of the monthly pay of the so-called interest fee, but the fee is intended to take into account the management, maintenance and financial costs, which are not necessarily due to the borrowing of the company. In this way, we can argue that the site is more like a tenure than a possession plan, such as a rough one. In his day, a client himself pointed to the welfare minister. I would like to encourage senators to think about this. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to bring up a bill for housing benefits intended for the tenants of April 1 and then we can discuss this possibility in the discussions about that bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for recording this case. It is incredibly unfair that there are major operations to support people who have bought houses with tens of millions of donations, but then certain groups are completely left behind. This is a crystal - clear example of how in these measures there is financial support to people who were not needed, big business people, high - paying employees, people who are not in trouble with their mortgages, but who have no solutions for the people in housing communities, and who also suffered the massive shock of inflation following the collapse. I'm sorry, I don't hear any answers, no resources coming from the highest level. Social Affairs now that the season is almost over and you're about to get out of hope in behalf of these people that there'll be some kind of rock slip from the Minister... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u63	V.E.G. President. I must admit that I am deeply concerned about the answers I have received here today. First of all, by pointing out that I am asking answers for a few loans, I am running back from answering for a certain debt. I'm asking you a question about a form of community service that is the Bhus residence community. We're talking about a society that lives with it right now, because this is a society where all the apartments are under one partner, that 60 to 70 apartments are empty, and the rest of the cities are from these 60 to 70 apartments except where they've been negotiated for some freezing equipment that hangs them over. If these people go to the head, the camp loan fund will be able to take over this society with a huge loss. Are they going to let that happen? I expect the highest. Minister will answer as minister of the camp loan fund how to deal with this. That's why I also asked about the law because I knew that it was the highest. A minister has spoken extensively to housing partners here on the forward view. The form is dead. If the people who now live in Bustea, or especially the people in the Búmmen, get into trouble, nobody goes into this society. There was nothing in the suggestions here that prevents it from happening again. I must insist that the government - and not give them one minister to another - accept this matter and solve it so that the goal, which I share with the highest power, may be solved. Minister, and hopefully also with the government, get caught, i.e. in an equalized state between different habitats, whether by tenants or apartment owners, that it is solved in a comparable way. We've got non-skilled members following the government's actions. When these activities were considered, they were asked about these habitats. At that time, a statement from the highest point of view was made. Minister and commander of the highest. Prime Minister of the future arrival of action for these groups. It is not being proclaimed in these answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u64	A respectable president. I thank you again. paritaprevir The Hannesson for his inquiry and for taking up this matter here. But I'd like to point out that. I suppose a senator is quite well involved in the matters he is here asking about, for he was a camp loan fund, and then a very special debt from a camp loan fund, his check in his own time. Hv. A senator also came to put the legal frame of action between the head of the apartment loans and the minister. I was answering in line with the laws that exist in the country, so I can't express myself about the position of single loans, but I stressed that the funds work well with those in debt, but of course, in accordance with the laws and regulations in the country. I also reviewed the changes here are going through. I have to say I don't agree with what's happened. A senator said here. No more than that, because more than 90% of the banking system broke down, I can't agree to put off certain forms of society because individual societies have problems. We look, however, at creating a better management environment, while sharpening the responsibility of the members of that partner's management group, that they have information to make the best possible decisions for the business. I'd like to reiterate what I said here about rent reforming, that's one of the things I think it's necessary that we speak here at the council and see. I'm assuming the Minister of welfare committees, as a matter of fact. A senator sitting in, will specifically review it when the bills arrive until treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u65	A respectable president. The question I'm going to address here to the highest. Environment Ministers are well pleased to know that today visitors in Iceland find too much tourists in Iceland to be part of. In Stockholm, October 2014, the Council of the Northern Council decided to direct them to the Norwegian Ministers to investigate application instruments, to set up planning and aims, and to establish a coronal system for sustainable tourism and to cooperate with Member States in the states who are already developing comparable systems in the countries as well as with Swan, Norwegian environmental signals, and also to establish a range for the norset authorities in the transport, cultural and environmental and natural health sectors as well as its aims to develop proposals for cohestical terms over sustainable tourism, and to provide advice on the policy-making of tourism and policy makers. In support of the proposal, growth in tourism in the North countries has been higher than in other sectors, approx. 4% a year, and is expected to continue. Actually, he's considerably higher in this country. Travel is among the expected jobs in the future. Research in this field suggests that tourists are increasingly reaching out for special destinations where their participation and level of knowledge are being maintained. Regional production and culture will gain greater weight as well as demand that tourism not make its mark on the environment and society. The question is, How and how can you develop rapidly growing tourism without being harmed by the foundations? Experience from the use of environmental signals in hotels is positive and gives the hope that such markings can also be used to witness travel sites. During the past 20 years, there have been many attempts to establish signs or witnesses for tourism, but with limited results. This is why I refer to the following questions to the Environment and Resource Minister: 1st Has the Icelandic government taken a stand on the above Council's recommendations for the development of the Norse signal for sustainable tourism? 2. Has the United States government promoted the Council of Northern Ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u66	A respectable president. I thank you for your inquiry and would like to say that the Icelandic government has been accompanied by a review to see if the North countries can combine their signals or other criteria for what may be considered sustainable tourist attractions in the North countries. Some work has already been put into such examination by the Norse Environmental Work force. We're so lucky that it's an urgent Icelander who has directed one of these projects, a project on sustainable consumption and production directed by the Icelandic company Environice and has published in a report entitled Sustainability Certification of the Nordic Torists in 2012. The report also discusses the link between the Norwegian environmental sign Swan, the official environmental sign of the northern countries they have jointly run for 25 years. The result of that work is that it's interesting, but it needs to be done further, including In terms of sustainability criteria in the context of tourist status, tourism definitions, financing, etc. In this regard, the experience of Swannin as well as other projects in this area, which have been done in each country, may also be useful. As noted above, what seems to be missing is a standard or standard, and how difficult it is to find out! The question Number 2, whether the Icelandic government has promoted the proposal of the Norwegian Minister for Ministers, can be answered this way: any recommendations coming from the Council of the North to the National Ministers of Ministers are put in place at a specific level at the level of the Minister's Committee that applies to each case. It is customary to agree that the country with the countries and the National Ministers' office is the main responsibility of recommendations and that recommendations are given according to the rules of time and time. Denmark is premeditated, as I know it. A senator knows, of the Ministerial Committee in 2015, and is already starting to respond to the recommendations asked here. It is not customary in the cooperation of the governments that one country uses another pressure to accept recommendations from the Council of the North, while emphasis is placed on finding possible cooperation resources as well as when countries feel that cooperation is clearly a means of nomadic worth. The recommendations discussed here were discussed at a meeting of the Norwegian Environment Ministers at the Council of Northern Congress last October. It showed that tourism and outdoors are important in all the countries, and much emphasis is placed on protecting nature and protecting to the extent possible. It was also noted that most of the countries have already established some kind of witnessing system, both in quality and environment, and in some countries are working on the development of new certifying systems, which include sustainable development. I hope to some extent it answers questions foreman.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u67	A respectable president. It is urgent that the government consider these aspects. You're absolutely right. A minister points out, many of the rest of the Northern countries have developed certifying systems. In Norway, for example, Norway's Innovosajo Norway has created a system to develop and mark a sustainable destination. Four locations have been completed, and more are in the process of witnessing. Sweden has set up a three - year strategy for sustainable development for five destinations and has also developed a sign called Swedish Wellcome, intended for consultation and certification with focus on quality and sustainable development. At that time, the Danish Standard Institute has initiated the development of a sectoral quality standard for tourism that is expected to be prepared in 2016 and will replace the many existing certification systems. Here in Iceland, it's known the tourism agency is developing the Vatican's signal. We are far beyond the average increase in the North countries; we have averaged an increase of between 9% and 9% in the last few years, but the increase in the tourism industry has been 20%. If so, within a few years, there will be millions of tourists. These products need to be carefully considered, and it is to try to make good use of the work that has already been started and when there are other countries in the North, because there is a tremendous danger if you do not get involved in these materials. Of course, it would be helpful for us Icelanders to have one consistent system of witnessing with the other northern countries that would be known and that could provide certain benefits for these substances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall is eager to do this and join him in this, and it is certainly urgent to consider these matters together. We're not quite ready for this massive number of tourists. Therefore, it is important that we take advantage of both the work and the experience of the northern countries in this regard. We have this group, as we know the preceding years with the Swan, and it would be very important that we could build such things with the Norwegian countries here for tourism. It's good to be able to define these places, but as far as I could in my previous speech, it's a little more complicated and complicated than the rules we have to discuss the Swan. It is important to be organized, protected, and built into areas where pressure is present. That is why we need to be able to define tourist areas, tourist areas. Are we thinking about such areas as Lake lagoon park, or are we just planning the whole country? It is good if we can have a common Norwegian value on these matters and take advantage of the experiences of those countries that have gone further. However, I draw attention to the fact that it is also beneficial for each person to have his own brand and unique position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u69	V.E.G. President. Here's why I ask this question to the highest. A minister for ophthalmological services in the East follows a district week, where the Group of Congress all traveled east and had many meetings, as well as visiting various institutions there. One of the things that occurred after the discovery of those meetings came to the fore after the presence of Eydís Ásbjörnsdóttir's daughter, a town councilman in the Far East, told us members of the Parliament about the status of eye medicine in the Orient. That is the basis for this question. Although it revealed that the ophthalmological service has been completely stopped, I have been told that one of the ophthalmologists has stopped but the other arrives twice a year. A respectable president. This is the reason for my questions, but to explain this a little more clearly, one person recognized an example of a parent who had to take a child to an eye doctor in Reykjavík because the number of eye doctors has dropped so much and cost the subject 144 you. At a time, a flight for a parent plus a child. Although two trips are paid for by Iceland's Medical Insurance but the person needs to go more often, it's only the cost of the person who falls there. If it's two more times, it's the 144 you're talking about. K. And, of course, another cost of losing my job and living in Reykjavík. I'm calling attention to the health insurance that these 144 you've got. K. but the reason why eyemen want to go east, and maybe other places in the country also, also, is Iceland's Medical Insurance Convention with National Experts requiring 10% discounts after the publication of a set of units. The government's budget pays off its pocket, but would it not be better if these money went to the East Health Institute and even some eye doctor's doctor's practice so that its inhabitants could use it instead of taking on such long trips? In another meeting, a description was made by adults who had to take their adult relative from a nursing home and drive him to the eye doctor and back, with very serious consequences. My question to the Minister faces this: 1st Does a minister know why eastern medical services with experts arriving have been stopped? - I'm making it clear that she hasn't stopped yet, but she's getting a lot smaller. 2. Is there anything in the work of the Eastern Institute of Health that explains this change? [[The president calls.]] These are the questions, a respectable president, that I would like to present to the highest degree. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator these two questions he raises to me regarding the medical services in the East. That is correct. The leader, Kristján Möller, that an ophthalmologist service in the East has not been stopped, it is not. Two eye doctors took care of the East, and one of the two decided to stop coming east. At that time, the National Health Organization of the East sought out the health insurance of Iceland and asked for the units under which the Agency could sort these matters out itself and therefore hire an eye specialist. There was a contract between East Health and Health Organization in the middle of 2014, but at this point it has not been able to negotiate with a new eye specialist. The Agency has been working on this, and this piece of work came to my request when I received news of this last spring. In reality, then, there has been no change in the activities of the Eastern Institute of Health, which is a long way away, and it strives to provide the best service and to help improve access to a special service in the East. The success of health insurance in this area is good, and it is clear that most experts in the country are working under contract with health insurance. The agreements that apply to specialist physicians have considerable influence and can influence the distribution of their specialized activities around the country. As I mentioned, I have put this into practice in conversations with both the United States and the East Health Organization, but I have also discussed this with the director of all health institutions and have encouraged them to look overall at these things because the nine members in charge of the nine districts are to consider themselves to be less inclined to believe that they are all responsible to provide health care for all citizens. There is a responsibility in the founding business, especially at the Land Hospital ▪ University Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri, for dispensing special expertise to other areas of the country. However, I would like to find out from this inquiry that according to a summary of my request for eye medicine expenses, they have never been more available in the East than in the past two years, 2013 and 2014, whether you look at the total expenses or only on the contribution of the Eastern Institute of Health. So it's not that we're putting the same amount of money into this, that the problems have been so that we don't get to people's positions we're picking up. The number of people serving in the whole Eastern country was 2014 persons in 1,527, and the chart that I have since 2011-2014 is the second - largest number of service candidates. I don't think it's overall taken on something very bad. We, however, have unique examples that might have been different from those of us, but this has always been true. However, the health institutions have tried to cope, as I can with them, either in the East or elsewhere, in an effort to perform the ministry as close to the local community of the individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u71	Madam President. That was a funny answer from the highest. Secretary of health. He's always slippery, and you could say that he was embalmed here by his own hands. V.E.G. A minister said there was really nothing wrong, but after the people who need to take advantage of a particular service, they had put more money on this in the past two years than they did, but after that, the people who have to take advantage of a certain service need to go all the way south or south into Akureyri, not all but some. I'm not teaching the highest. A minister in particular of this, however, is absolutely clear to see that this is yet another example of how the inhabitants of the country often live in poor service. I think it's the last place on the top. Minister to withdraw, I'm not saying he does, but something's wrong in this system. In particular, I think cutting champions should view their conduct if it is so that they have had some share in it by means of deposit requirements to conclude that the State still has to pay more than once for fare. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that is why it is being spent more money on it in the past two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u72	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answer as far as it goes. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for saying things. I think, however, I have to conclude that in the case of an ophthalmologist service in the East today, after the change I had previously been able to make, there is a terrible medical situation in the East. It's about to be changed. This isn't working. It's not enough for a quarter of a country to have an eye doctor come twice a year. It offers such examples of how I handled this pensioner from the east of the country who had to drive with him to Akureyri. This isn't working. V.E.G. The minister spoke before the discount required by health insurance, which is excess. Which is why I may add a question, a respectable president, to the highest level. A minister and it is that if there is no reason for health care ministers to apply themselves to Iceland's health insurance so that the removal of these greetings without a discount, they will be forced into the eye doctors who are in the country and are ready to go ashore, that they may receive increased salutations or that the health centres will be used to employ the medical profession so that their eye doctors are not required to give 10% off of this. I also want to mention some of the other aspects of this matter, although I make it clear that I don't allow it to interfere, i.e. that health institutions in the country participate in costs such as travel, rooming, living, secretarial services, and other things that the medical institutions are not paid for. They take it out of their business to move the ministry closer to the people I, the highest. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson loves to have. Whether they cross the Grand Way or some streets in the capital area or live in the country, it should be the same cost for people to visit an eye doctor. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. A minister to promote changes so that this special service can be greater and expand in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u73	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussions here, for a good weekend, and for good talks. [[Up front.]] When it comes to this statement, the person standing here is a slippery man who loves me, and I would have been more likely to have something like it than ice cream, especially in view of the discussion that will follow. It is true that much can be added to this system, and we are working on it. The first assignment, for example, was to negotiate with specialists who were uncontracted in 20101⁄2013. This is essential for making a requirement for the way they behave. We made a deal by the end of 2013, but it is another matter to make changes in the way we all agree that there is a need to be made, i.e. that the expert services will be as close to the people as possible. Also, there should not be any special cost to health care facilities if these are cared for. I mentioned earlier that a contract was made between the European Medical Insurance Agency and the Eastern Health Organization, but it will then be completed in what way you can make use of the financial resources. This may well be - No, it may well be that we need to make adjustments in the contents of the unique agreement to ensure that we have the requirement to have it returned to the site. [[Two times isn't enough.]] I'm glad that this is an agreement to correct the failings that we are clearly involved in this service, but I let it be determined in part whether it's a fear - inspiring situation, especially when considering that the amount in our service is being served... and that this should be our course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u74	Madam President. I've allowed myself to ask two small questions for the Top. Minister for the protection of the Ice Age in Lake Þingalva. I have previously had a word with the Minister on the issues related, and I want to thank him for his positive attitude, both toward me and for his attitude in times past, and can assure him that both of us are thankful to him for his understanding of the matter. The Council has a special obligation to law against the House, to Lake Þingalva, and to its life, including the fish that live there. Over the years, the World Council has established a number of laws that have been designed to strengthen environmental support and, in fact, to support the environment. A special law to protect not only a quarter of a cow's pinky, which was in some periltimetime, but also the Ice Age. Happily, the general interest in this matter and especially the protection of the ice age, the efforts shown by many senators, by trying to get him out of a devastating danger, has led to the restoration of a bit of subjugation in the Þingval Sea in recent years. In fact, over the last two years there has been a marked change in what we have never seen before. The fishing story is flying. Of course, this has led to greater interest in the roar, and in recent years it has been caught on a pole. At one time, the Parliamentary Committee used more rigid rules to limit fishing. The result was that men who often lived in poverty fishing as they went to the lake began to use all sorts of crutches and bait as their prey, especially during springtime when he is extremely hungry and the pink is not on its way, and he has no other food, jumped on. At the time, we saw that this could lead to a smooth cut-off from him, and I'd like to make it more specific to the Environment and Resource Minister for Commendation, who is also chairman of the Constitution Committee that it and the Parliamentary Committee last year promoted even stronger and more rigid rules, i.e. Rules that the fishing industry could not be caught during the hunt period between April 20 and June 1 except on a fly and would also have to practice the pursuit of fish and escape, i.e. Any fish caught on a pole would be released. Look, since I submitted this inquiry, I've heard about the fact that hunting companies have rented more countries over there and intend to practice the same thing. This is very positive, but I think it's important that it's put in place as a general rule of the entire lake and asks for the highest level of water. Minister if he agrees with me and if he, in the strength of his error, sees any means he can apply himself to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u75	A respectable president. Thank you for an interesting inquiry on a very important subject from which. Senator. In view of the inquiry, the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation requested information from the Fish Office and Fishing Office through letters, and the following answers are based on information received from the Ministry from those institutions this month in March. The main objective of the law No. 61/2006, for salmon and trout fishing, is a catcher in fresh water and a sensible, practical and sustainable use of freshwater fish stocks and their protection, as shown in Article 1. The law. The administration of the Management Board is at the Fish Room, as is Article 4. The law of the law, and under the law, it is in the hands of a hunting partner to set a license on their social areas and to be within the bounds of the law. With the law, hunting communities were more responsible than in the past to make sure that the use of fish stocks is self-sustained and that they set rules for hunting in their hunting grounds. The riverwater is a hunting society, a Lake Fishing Company, which reaches all the water and works according to VI. the part of the law. By 19. The previously mentioned legislation will provide further guidelines for hunting times and fishing restrictions in individual fishing waters. Such rules, a new plan, shall be verified by the Fishing Agency under the guidance of the Agency, which is a consulting agency for fishing in rivers and lakes. The new design of a fishing partner is allowing season, license fishing instruments, and allowed cross-counts and other uses in hunting barrels. The Water Water Water Fishing Association has not yet developed a new plan according to the above guidelines. According to a legal committee, if the fishing companies do not fulfill their duty, they can take the initiative in putting in a plan for fishing. However, it is far preferable that hunting rights owners suggest that the management plan for all things is proposed. It must be concluded that the Fishing Sea Society has a plan for fishing in the water that reaches all the water, but a minister cannot decide on the subject of such rules. However, the minister believes that it is proper to draw attention to the decision to take a responsible position on the fishing industry in the Lake Þingalval, also having to establish a more intensive fishing registry and make a full effort to take over the state of the eastern parts of the water. By 13. The above - mentioned songs on salmon and trout fishing must include a report on fishing in the fished water that the Institute of Fishing collects in the form provided by a Fish Room. In Iceland at salmon fishing, fishing is registered in a fishing book, and it has the best known in the world. Each year a summary of information on salmon and trout fishing is published by the Food Lab. However, keeping a list of fish in the trout lakes has not been as successful. Information about fishing in Lake Þingalva is fragile and cannot be based on the decision of a fishing organization. A fishing lab has considered ways to improve registration, and it will work with the hunting club and the Fishing Organization to improve the collection of the fish in the water. Because water is large and fishing in many parts of the water, it is difficult to get into a fishing book, as it is known about salmon fishing rivers. However, an attempt to improve registration can be made by the hunting company having registration plans and websites made available to fishermen. Entire information on fishing in Lake Þingalva could be used to determine whether there is a reason for protection in the wasteland. It is then important to monitor the condition of the wildwater strain where, as observed in the dog. A senator, a sensitive trunk and historic intelligence, has not been replaced by new spawning sites at the water output when the floodwaters were blocked by dams due to catharmation at Steing Monster Station. Until better water fishing data are available and a newer plan has been established, careful use of the plant in Lake Þingvalala is warranted. The rules for hunting in the park have much to say in this regard. For that summary, it is really that in accordance with this, a minister does not have the legal authority to employ certain ice - age protection rules in the Lake Tingval, but, as appeared in the lead, the role of the fishing organization is to set up a new plan and thereby to feed in the water under the guidance of a Vessel Institute. It is also the role of a Fish Room that operates as a administrative committee under the law to comply with the legal requirement of hunting companies to set such rules. It should then be explained that the information available on the Ice Age stock in Lake Þingalva suggests that the trunk is being brought up and therefore there is no basis for government action other than those in the current legislation and governance, and it has been identified above, as it were. However, if a fish lab, a hunting agency, or interests feel the need to look into these issues further, it may well be considered that a minister of a vessel is taking these matters into consideration and doing so, if there is any reason to do so, the proposal that... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u76	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor for still bringing into the General Affairs of the Third Age in Lake Þingvalala. In a way, it is. A senator has the best interests of this subject, as I have the interests of the local people, as the inquiry mentioned earlier. But, hey. On the other hand, a member of the council prefers it over me with the iceberg, even though I am very interested in him. A senator is also a powerful local resident who demands justice, as noted earlier in a discussion of eye doctors in the East. But what I noticed in reply to the highest. The Minister is that the Council of Fishing Waters Company has not been installed, so I ask the highest. Minister: Isn't it mainly public people who protect the Lake Sea Fishing Society, and why is it so difficult to implement a new plan in this regard? As we have seen, there have been some rules that make it possible for humans to use a variety of fishing instruments that could harm the fish and have no knowledge of the consequences instead of catching a fly and escaping into certain areas set up by the Constitution Committee and Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] Here's a question of whether set... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u77	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It was well - meaning and positive on the subject I asked about. I noticed that the highest. Of course, a minister said that more research is needed to make a firm declaration about the size of the roar. I agree completely with him, but there's not much research to distribute except the Axura strain. But I have of the connection I have with hunters and with my living and passionate interest in this matter tried to address it through conversation with very bright hunters and I have come to the conclusion that they don't think far from the right track, that maybe now, which is quite much, to hunt and release 3 thousand pieces in Lake Þingvalala. This may involve two or more thirds of them, and they seem to be living very well even when released in this way. It takes not many triggers in such a hunting station to cut off the roar, and especially so with the large larva and the largest, not just because they produce more eggs because they are larger, but because the wrinkles are also larger than the smaller fish and are living much better, except that in the Öxá, it seems that in January the big larva is crawling with spawning, which I think is the basis for adjusting the disaster in the Axáar River. It is very important to inculcate this in humans. The question is the same as why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller brought it here: There aren't many fishermen by the lake. There aren't many farmers left. If you look at previous answers at the highest. A minister to me turns out that the kingdom, the city, and the council have foreseeing much of the coast. V.E.G. Minister, there's more of it than many others in the government, and he can exert himself for the purpose of the fishing business going this way, without necessarily too much damage to the Minister. [[The president calls.]] In addition, Madam President, I'd like to say that he's done so well with him that if he had the right to vote, he would probably prefer him to me. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's natural because I'm not in...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-23-83.u78	A respectable president. I don't know what he would have done if he had a right to vote. But it is true here that it is very important that we carefully use them and do all that has to be done. It's also important, as shown in my case, and I think it is. By their second speech, a candidate confirmed that it is important that those attending these fishing are members of the way people behave. It is far easier to set rules when they are involved in molding them themselves than in setting rules that are difficult to enforce. We know this, among other things, from the regulation on water protection in Lake Þingalva, which puts in many shapes, for example, the way it is used to fish, and following it in surveillance is a challenge. For this reason, it may be most important that those involved in such activities be molded by such rules within the Fishing Sea Society. It is true that there are many public members, and it may be typically that they are not always the best children to get things started quickly and effectively, public members. It is often more likely that individuals are likely to do so, but as in the situation, it is true that a water - water management strategy is not available, which is related to the Fishing Room and the Fishing Agency should follow up on it, and there are ideas for entering it. The ideas that have developed, both at the Þingalva and the Power Institute, are meant to be reasonable and careful about these fishing and watching to do this in a sustainable way that the population can grow. But we also need further research in order to know exactly what we are doing, but perhaps first of all, we need a better registration.
