ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u1	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to this right now and ask for information from the President on what is missing on the request for a special discussion from then on. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir to prime minister on insurance. A request for this discussion has resulted in loss, and prime minister has failed to carry out his duties, according to the Constitution and the Senate, to have a word with the senator on this matter. Therefore, I would like to reiterate our objection to the fact that the prime minister is allowed to get away with his duties here at the council. This sets a very bad example and threatens the Senate's critical surveillance role with the Commission if prime minister is to be allowed to ignore members of Congress when it is made clear an explicit request for material discussion that is on top of the above - mentioned issue. The prime minister has now seen himself as a major political struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u2	A respectable president. In order to crown all of this, the prime minister just stood up, and when we first discussed this matter, we members of the Parliament get to see under his feet. The fact is, since January of this year, there has been a peak. On the other hand, the prime minister in no way answered the wait. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg the Ingadóttir, of the fact that there will be a special discussion on the price insurance. Then you ask yourself, " Why? ' Could this be because, in the end of the election, people here praised all beautiful people and are just so they can't keep up with it? Is that why? Why do people allow themselves to run from members of the council and special discussions for ten months without saying anything? A respectable president. This will not work, but it may have said more than many words on the situation, disembarking insurance, which was supposed to be a major issue of this government. Clearly, the situation is that the prime minister has no answers. [[The president calls.]] Life insurance will not be removed during this terms. Hence, he does not place in the speaker's chair here and discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u3	President. I'd like to agree with the members of Congress who have expressed themselves here on this matter. I feel very sad - very sad - to the highest. When discussing matters that are about to the highest, the prime minister runs from the council hall. Prime Minister refuses to come to the council to discuss the big election promise, canceling insurance. It is impossible for the executives to get away with the council and show such disrespect. I challenge the President to give up the highest. Prime Minister hears it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u4	A respectable president. This isn't the first time it happens to the highest level. The prime minister stumbles at the door under the comments of members of Congress that he should be entitled to handle matters with the council, that is not the first time. This refers to a request for a special discussion. About what? About one of the biggest campaign votes ever made before the last election. Why does the prime minister not want to have this conversation with the Council? This makes a bad expression for the council. It is this kind of behavior that promotes mistrust in politics, and I present the full responsibility of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, on how society feels about politics as a whole. It's like this, it's such a disregard for the council and to the nation we're stuck with. A respectable president must take action on behalf of the Generals. [[Take the front, hear. Hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u5	V.E.G. President. As we have seen, we don't like the members of the council here in my section much to the highest degree. A prime minister is allowed to ignore the senator's request for a special discussion. In February and again, I requested a special discussion on insurance insurance when a council arrived in the fall. This has not been the case. I expect the highest. The president will see to it that this discussion can take place here. It would be normal for her to do so immediately this week. This case must be the highest. Prime Minister tamed. It was his second greatest voter. It was supposed to be a promotional administration or insurance policy. Now he has to describe to us what lies ahead in these matters, for this is a big matter for families in the land and for the economy in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u6	A respectable president. It's a simple matter to cancel insurance, to mention the election to Sigmundur told Davíð Gunnlaugsson, but after the election, he feels that it is the most complex matter to discuss the question. It is only natural that the prime minister is in a race, fleeing from it, now that all looks like inflation is increasing, when asked: "Why did the advance group choose to cheat their biggest campaign, cut out insurance? Why has nothing happened in this situation? The president of the Generals has asked Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, to attend that discussion. He's right here in the house. So there is no need to put the matter on schedule at the end of unsubstantiated queries except the opposition of the prime minister himself. This cannot be extended to the council and to the president of the council. There's no way ministers can, and then, forever, choose if they want to discuss any subject or not. It is the clear right of members of Congress to demand ministers to answer to important matters that concern the people of the country. [[The president calls.]] It is certainly such a life insurance policy, and it is the duty of the prime minister to be here in the hall. A respectable president. I ask: Have there been arrangements that the prime minister is in the hall, or is he eating a cake again? [[You're always perturbing, sanctum.]] Where's the bottom line? Prime Minister? [[Up top: number smaller, do more.]] Have there been arrangements for a prime minister to be here for the discussion? [[The president calls.]] I think it says all about the cause of Prime Minister that he's afraid to be in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u7	The president wants to know that the prime minister is in the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u8	A respectable president. This meeting manager on behalf of a respectable president and conduct at the highest level. Prime Minister reflects the breakdown and abnormal relationship of the Generalis with the government. It's probably such a matter, and it's silly that the members of the council have to go up here in the cracks to call for such a spontaneous request to be answered in a positive way, so we'll discuss these matters. We can easily spend more time complaining that we are not discussing the matter, but instead we should discuss it. It's a special discussion, it takes about half an hour, maybe a little more. I hope so. Councilmen and the highest. The government takes this issue seriously, not just in the light of the question of insurance, but in the light of the government's relationship with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u9	A respectable president. I understand very well. Councilmen are uncomfortable with this discussion when the government's own task manager does not have special discussions with its members. I am one of those who waited many months for a special discussion at the highest level. Prime Minister, who had to reiterate that request, had to be repeated. What happens is that you decide to have special discussions with other ministers who are then diligent to attend, but they will only be put to more pressure. It is not really acceptable. The prime minister, the executive for the government, should be able not to attend a special discussion. It's very serious. I hope this is the last time we have to get ready for the President's conference board to discuss this matter. A respectable president. Let it go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u10	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Education and Culture, Minister of Industrial and Business, Ministers of Social Affairs, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u11	A respectable president. It was reported last week that there was a payment of cases that protected the stocks'positions and that the government had come to the top with the decision to give a huge discount from a stable tax on the payment of parbourg's stable supply. As we all recall, there were some laws on the stress of a stable tax that were to be returned about 680 billion in a state fund, but according to the news, it was to allow the broilers to get out of the country on account of their payment of 330 billion. The tax was to be paid more than half as much as the tax. However, the premises of this discount and this administration of the government to foreign demands were not clear. As it turned out, the release of the Icelandic World Bank was postponed for an indefinite period of time. I wished on Wednesday, last week, after a meeting of the bosses to review the reasons for these decisions because it is only natural for the government groups and their executives to explain the basis for their decision to give this great discount to the foreign demands. At my request for a meeting, it has not been made. V.E.G. The prime minister took advantage of such a meeting here in question period on Thursday, but nothing has happened. There has not been an invitation to a meeting at the decommission board, where representatives of all classes sit and serve at the highest level. The prime minister has not taken the initiative to gather the heads of the classes. That's why I want to reiterate the question to the highest level. Prime Minister: Is it not true that officials of the government explain to representatives of other political groups the material reasons for discounting foreign demands? [[The president calls.]] And it's not the highest. PRIESTION normal for such a basis to be made public so that natural comments, including those, can be answered. Inveffence, about the fact that it's going too far?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u12	A respectable president. I answered that question why. The senator's last question period arrived from two other members, the chairman of the left movement, the green bid, and the U.S. vice president. Hv. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years seem to have missed those discussions, and he could have saved himself now and might have used it for something else, such as asked me about the insurance policy I couldn't hear better in the past than for a lot of trouble to talk about. Clearly, a senator is not in such a hurry, and he prefers to ask again what had been answered. Yet, he added a confirmation of a request for a meeting in a consultation committee on these matters. I don't think there's any reason to wait on it beyond what they think is desirable, but I had realized that the common opinion of men had been that they wanted to wait for a minister of finance to meet the committee. If you don't want to wait, I think there must be a meeting in this committee with shame, for there is nothing to be done to inform government opposition and others about the affairs of these cases. Clearly, this is not unnecessary, considering why. A senator who seems, as I say, has also missed discussions at the council during the last question period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u13	A respectable president. It is normal to reiterate that request to the highest level. Prime Minister whether he would take the lead in making public all the grounds of the discount that he intends to give to foreign demands before making any decision there. That's a direct question to the highest. The prime minister must be able to answer. First, the highest. The prime minister can come here and strike other members of Congress on the insurance policy and there I feel that he should act upon the natural wishes of members of Congress on the matter of this important matter of interest. Looking into the eyes of the nation before the last election, he said that it was no problem to eliminate insurance. In fact, he also said that taking lots of money from foreign managers is not easy. But he has not taken away insurance, and he cannot be clear and say that he wants to make public the requirements for the discount he is about to issue to foreign demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u14	A respectable president. Hv. A senator seems to be at the very beginning of this case. He has not even noticed the presentation in the Harp when it was originally reported how the lift of oceans, the release of oceans, would be attacked. [[Up front.]] When it came to the fact that it was... [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Can be controlled. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir who calls out here every time I try to return her chairman to a fine party? It revealed that in view of the possibility of having these two avenues, speaking of some discount is completely ludicrous, respectable president, and simply misleading. What conditions must be met at the same time. The conditions for stability exist, and they are not just paying money, as was shown in some news last week, in which all the other joints had been forgotten, they include a number of factors, including. drop-offs that in all cases should do the same things, reach the same goal, cope with the same amount as when the tax route has gone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u15	A respectable president. I asked the highest. The prime minister goes to an eco-friendly car and shop for the State on them, especially ministers, sometime during springtime, and had excellent talks about it. V.E.G. The prime minister considered it desirable for the State to seek to set a good example in these matters. It had been in the magazines that the prime minister was thinking about buying a new car. I strongly encouraged him to take advantage of the opportunity to buy an electric vehicle or as an environmentally friendly car as possible because it is important that ministers always walk ahead with good example. V.E.G. The prime minister has now discussed climate and ambitious plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Now I see reports of a new Ministerial car being purchased. Since I don't know anything more than what I've read in the papers, I can't go into the consulting website and see what kind of ministers are for the Ministers--I think it would be very good to have a picture of the car and information about it. So I want to ask the highest. The prime minister whether it is right to buy a new car. What's his name and how much did he cost, how much he spends and how much CO releases him? 2?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u16	A respectable president. I saw like a dog. A senator learns that I was buying a new car, but it was likely meant that the Ministry of Presidency or the Board of Directors was investing in a car. This is probably the fourth time I've heard about the Ministry or I'm getting a new car. It might be right now, I won't say, but I don't know exactly what that car will be like or what it'll spend a lot of money or what it'll be like. The senator asked about it. I know, however, that such investments do not include major financial expenses for the State, as others have done. Therefore, producers or immigrants of these vehicles have been negotiated to buy them at substantial discounts, a great discount that can be sold again at comparable or even higher prices, i.e. That a wealth of money is not to be paid to the rich because of this. That's all I know of. That's what I'm talking about. A respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u17	A respectable president. Then I should understand it so as to the highest. A minister has no influence and has no comment about what kind of minister car is chosen in his Ministry? So, wasn't the answer I got in spring? I'm kind of in the middle of something here. Hasn't you bought a new car? So this is just a fabrication that comes out of the business magazine? I call for clearer answers than this and repeat the question that I have repeatedly asked: ▪ Is it not reasonable for a minister to follow ahead with a good example, to buy as environmentally friendly cars as possible? If there's to be luxury cars, then Tesa can be purchased. I don't doubt that the Weddings and those who deal with this are trying to make as good a purchase as possible. Better now. What I ask is, why is it not the most environmental advantage? Doesn't a Minister have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u18	A respectable president. I don't manage sales for government agencies, whether in cars or in other items that the government needs to buy, to be in the most diverse business of government and government agencies. However, regarding the comment and inquiry as a question. A senator reviewed electrical vehicles, and I thought it would be most desirable for us to move in more and more of the cars that use environmentally-friendly energy. For example, I've thought that there must be an opportunity for electric producers to make it possible for governments and others here to get these at a good price so that Iceland could become a role model in this material, perhaps in the same way that men have decided to make Iceland an exemplary country of drugs, recent examples of it. Similarly, people may be able to see the advantage of aiming for Iceland to become the first electricalized country. [[The president calls.]] Of course, where we need to look at the economic predecessors too, and that the state can attack this without significant expenditures. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u19	President. Hopefully, some conclusion will come from a board of directors as the Supreme Committee. Prime Minister's orders. I would like to ask, in view of the fact that I happen to be on a committee appointed by the Minister of the Interior to review laws on the affairs of foreigners. The job is this way that the members of the Parliament work to achieve a parapolitic agreement on what is to be in the law, and then they, along with the members of the Ministry, provide the work for the Minister of Ministers, who administer the case to the government, and then the minister will take the case to the council and it will be carried out on a normal contingency. I wanted to ask the highest. The prime minister how it is with this specified committee appointed by the minister, whether it will be the same as the committee I sit on, is a servant of the laws of foreigners. Very much. The prime minister makes these registrations available and presents them to the highest level. Government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u20	A respectable president. I have to admit, I didn't quite understand a question. A senator, the senator may be able to work this out a little more in the next inquiry if I have misunderstood. But that's right. A member of the Parliament says that a committee on the revision of the Constitution is well along in its work at the first phase, and I expect it will arrive before long, and we will take these suggestions for a discussion here at the council. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asking if this will be submitted as a government proposal or will these be submitted by representatives of the clans? I had understood that this was a work of cooperation between the members of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u21	You appointed the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u22	In case of a moment. A senator is recommending that this be submitted as a government proposal by sending in the commission work a very clear message about a change in policy in the work done there, so that it will be interesting to hear it. A senator better explains what he meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u23	President. The officer on the committee must know what the procedure is supposed to be like. I'm just completely open on this. For example, it is clear to the Council Committee that is working on the laws on the affairs of foreigners that we know exactly how the procedure should be done, the highest. Prime Minister. So I'd like to have the highest. At the very least, the prime minister explained to the council how the work should be carried out on the committee as the highest level. Prime Minister himself ordered. It's not complicated. I explained very carefully earlier that if a minister appoints a committee to handle matters that are subject to the company of prime minister, then prime minister, since this is not a Senate committee, it is called with all kinds of people, to know how the procedure should be before it begins before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u24	A respectable president. This was quite clear, shown in an order letter, and is the result of a consultation of groups here at the end of the last election before the election. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u25	Prime Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u26	A respectable president. Now we need a what? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's obituary to identify what's happening here in the collaborating of the packs, what Pirates game is playing in the Constitution, because here they are, apparently setting aside some kind of U-turn in cooperation with the Constitution, a partnership established at the end of the last council. But it has to be time to find out who the party of Porta is going to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u27	Mr. President. For the past few days, there has been another revolution in community media, now under the mill # I'm not a home. This revolution will attack the mental - health emergency that has existed, especially depression and anxiety. Most of the people involved in this revolution are young people, and these people require that society's attitudes change and that mental illness be taken seriously and recognized as a serious illness. Although most schools in the country do not have a mental - health professional, we know that a very large group of students have problems such as anxiety, depression, addiction, difficult family conditions, and social phobia. So these students turn to students and teachers with their problems. This is an enormous extra load on employees who actually have no time or professional knowledge needed to help students. It's important to get psychologists into school. In Akureyri, there has been an active psychologist with whom students can approach without cost. It became clear that there was a huge need for that service. General psychology services are very expensive, so it is clear that many people who need them cannot afford them. This is especially difficult in many parts of the country where there are few resources. The most important thing is that psychology services are in school, not on health care. As a result, students are more likely to make use of the ministry. That is a lot of knowledge in the community, and we know that mental problems are one of the major reasons for dropping out of high school. I'm going to the top. Ministers to ensure that preventive measures like HAM, mental behavioural treatments, and ART, social skills, training, anger control, and moral development will be offered in high school? I'm going to the top. A minister who employs psychologists to be hired to work in the high schools? If so, will he be able to provide enough money for that on a financial bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry that brings attention to a very important matter. That's right, as a matter of course. One senator says that one of the main reasons for the evaporation is due to the factors. A senator became a subject of mental illness, anxiety, and other disorders. It is also true, an excellent example. A senator here tore up about the Academy of Education in Akureyri and the service there. What I've been trying to do during my Prime Minister's season is to fight to increase the pressure of each student in high school. It had come down dangerously far following the crisis. If I recall correctly, the prices of 2014 or 2015 were averaged to 890 levels. K. in the system, but now about 1.1 billion. K. so that we gradually aim. The reason for this figure is that it describes the scope of what schools have to provide support to students beyond what is traditional in regular school activities. But this is a very important thing, and I think it needs to be done even better than it has been done. However, I would like to point out that we have achieved significant success in our basic school system and, indeed, in high school when it comes to harassment, with the Olweus program and other projects being very helpful. We know that mobbing can be a basis for depression and anxiety disorders, so there are many of our good employees in school who turn to it as hard. A senator raised an issue here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The situation at high school is like that, as a high school teacher, that the pressures on a general staff facing a mental disorder among students are enormous. All teachers know that at the end of class, students wait and want to talk to their teacher and discuss these matters. This is not something teachers can do. This is also not something students and advisers can take on. There's really no choice but psychologists. We have to put them in school, because these kids don't go out of school so easily to get this service. So this just calls for extra cash. I thought that might not be clear enough: Will extra cash be set, earmarked this, high school psychologists?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u30	A respectable president. With regard to funding, as I could in my reply, it's what's really important here for each student. Then it is up to the school managers to decide how these funds are best used. I don't think it's easy for us here at the Council to make a decision to put matters above what is present to them. But I also know that the school system, just like what it is. A senator's experience is a great understanding of this. I can agree with that. A senator says. I live so well married to a high school teacher who is familiar with this discussion. The important thing is that there is increasing awareness of this problem in society. We're more open to talk about this and accept this as a problem. Hence, it is important that we keep on trying to increase the amount of material we produce in high school so that each of them is better equipped to provide the support that needs to be given to those who need their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u31	A respectable president. Newly introduced the highest. Minister of new travel policies, and I have to say, there are a lot of good things to do there, and good goals are set for long-term tourism. Looking ahead, it is obvious that many have come to the conclusion of the course, and that is consistent with what has been done and that many have found it. That's good. However, there are a few things about which you pause. It may, first of all, be travel control. What I think we need to understand is where this new control center should be located. We have starving agencies, and we are starving to support tourism, such as a travel agency, we have a research center for travel, travel conferences, and Iceland. In recent years, all these participants have called for more money and may have needed a clearer view for a longer time. Well, she's here now, but it's a whole new bonding thing. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to this because it's clearly due to state information presented in the core, 70 million. K. First, where are these funds to come from? Second, I would like to ask, " What will happen to the other organizations? ' What should be done with the Council of Travel? What are we going to do with a travel agency? At least I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How did the minister think of making this important profession of launching this expedition by managing this project, without advertising, for 2 billion people? K. a month? A worse start on the expedition is not to be expected. I have to ask about this, a respectable president, because this draws all attention to the material content of the matter that is so important that you agree with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u32	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The manager for the query. It is the first thing to take where the management system is located. Then it's not an institution, it's the consultation and cooperation site of all the parties involved in these activities. We'll see that and we'll see it. A senator well knows from his earlier work as a minister of travel that travel is the sector that may have the wide range of appeals for society. Many departments come in direct contact with tourism matters, including rural areas, and the article itself is also very extensive and has many contact areas. That is why, at work we started off with and worked together in a good partnership with the industry itself, with the organization of the tourism services that are our partner - the project is required to half of the transport community, i.e. The article itself and the State, 70 million each - that we must conclude, must create this matter of consultation. Rather than direct tasks that are involved in other people's institutions to form such institutions. A senator mentioned, a travel agency that serves as an institution for me, an Icelandic agency that is at the highest level. Foreign Minister, etc., we take the projects above the traditional structure and bring ourselves responsible for these groups together so that we can make decisions that are common in the sector and discuss them without getting stuck in the traditional working force. [[The president calls.]] For other questions, I'll take them in later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u33	A respectable president. What I miss from this answer is the answer to the question, What are you going to do with a tourist council? It contains agents from the government, two ministers at least, i.e. from the Iceland Office and from the Industrial Minister, it represents the local community as well as the tourism services. In a sense, then, perhaps you should have just added the rest of the recruitment Council and then sharpened the legal function of the Council, because otherwise it must be that way that men are putting it down, or what? I feel like we're starting to spread the charges pretty much when the same people are nominate in more than one battery that's doing the same thing. It also counts, the most respected president. A minister uses his last minutes to tell us how, in many cases, he thought to set off such a project, to employ without advertising for as much as he actually does. In addition, a respectable president is estimated to be five years old. [[The president calls.]] Then you ask yourself: " How does it work if one plans to have a long - term vision to start with the project to cheat on a Kingdom Hall person who comes in without advertising? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u34	A respectable president. On the contrary, it has been foreign in this context that the requirements are too widely distributed. That's why we're setting up this position of cooperation that holds responsible members of the mercenaries. Tourism, travel agency and Iceland Labs all play a vital role and will carry on and we will take on the tasks there and elsewhere in the system, whether at Environment Ministers, finance ministers, transport ministers and/or other rural areas involved. Regarding the director, this is a national and national cooperative setting as presented in this article. So it is to answer first and last that it was our desire to find a suitable party to get this assignment started immediately, and it was as good as coming from the rest of the travel agency. I must say that it was among the examples set by the last term in cooperation between the state and the industry in a project that scorned a person who knows well, where the chairman of Inspired by Iceland was hired without advertisements and treaties with him repeatedly extended without advertisements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] In fact, I changed that behavior, and now we have it in the house, but it is certainly an example to be considered in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u35	A respectable president. Animal life is a source of concern to us. Poor treatment of pigs has been confirmed by a veterinarian at the Food Institute. It is obvious that there are too little sticks, bed wounds, eunuchs, tail cuters, and preconceived violations of both laws and regulations, so we are amazed at all, and we must ask the minister: What will he do to eliminate this situation quickly and well because of the animals? Three seem obvious to me to have to do so right away. We do not want to do business with people who abuse animals; hence, we must first inform those who are involved. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Second, these laws are to be prosecuted to the police, such as a violation of other laws. Third, no one who becomes ill - treated about animals should receive funding or subsidies from a government fund. I'm asking the highest. Minister if this is not a completely intolerable situation which is not sufficient to provide the current one, one and a half years after the assessment. Some have said that these are new rules. But, chief. Minister, is it not so that even the smallness of the rulers does not fulfill the old Regulation? Is it not, then, that each person is confronted with a pressure of less than 50 inches [50 cm] that is incompetent to the wild beast? Is it not officially declared that men have deliberately violated a law against tail cuttings, on eunuchs, and some other factors that cannot be measured? They say these are exceptional cases, so I believe. I believe these are exceptional circumstances that, unfortunately, bring reproach on too many innocent people who are well - versed in their animals and who take good care of them. However, the fact that this may be an exceptional situation does not make it easy. On the contrary, I believe it gives a special basis for taking a firm stand against these laws as well as other laws. Sadly, this does not seem to be an exceptional situation in the pig fire, compared with the number of people taken out last year and how much was unacceptable in the eight species that were taken out there. I'd also like to ask the secretary if the rules he stated in his Regulation this year on chicken and the number of chickens on a fire are sufficient in favour of the animals, whether graph wounds on chickens are still in place despite the requirements set in the Regulation this year and whether or not to take more precautionary measures to ensure the well-being of the chickens. I must also ask the Minister about the news we saw last night about that, despite the clear laws it is that way, at least to some cow dwellers, that the animals are bound on a booth all year long, and whether they know that this is true, and whether they too intend to take action immediately. I would also especially like to include in the Minister the details that I last mentioned about the actions I seem to be obvious, i.e. ... toassociatean expensive well-being and support from a government fund. It is now a new market agreement, and of course it may be because of administrative procedures and other such activities that it is often difficult to verify evidence in this subject. But would it not be reasonable for us to demand this in agreement to subsidies on agricultural production to show that animal travel is honorable for those who accept support from a government fund? Is it not a natural addition to the agreements we already have to ensure that in this regard all those who work in these articles are maintained?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u36	A respectable president. That was quite a big expression, and in many cases, it was mistaken. A client requested a response to information on animal abuse, and I can assure you, both as minister and trained veterinarian, that I will always regret poor treatment of animals and should not do so. However, we need to respect the laws and rules to be followed in this regard, and we have new laws in this regard. That's the law No. 55/2013, on the welfare of animals, and then on the basis of those laws, the equipment rules were set. I'll catch up with you later. I'd also like to mention that there must, of course, be a requirement for those who believe that an animal will do what I think it is most people do. One inquirer also asks if a minister will promote the identity of a pig farm. The case is the custody of the Food Institute under law. It operates under the information code and also has to be guided by personal protection laws. Therefore, a minister cannot intervene in that career, and he cannot tell us which pigs were taken in, since ministers have not been able to provide that information. To change, the law of information laws and personal protection must be changed. A food management agency has noted that areas of best interest in animals are the exception of information rights in which the Agency considers it to be a matter of private interest in individuals according to Article 9. Enlightenment. It is also asked whether a minister feels that guilty rather than guilty is adequate for such offenses. The animal welfare laws, however, provide some resources for the health of animals. Under the law, the Agency can stop the work, use the day's fines, despots the possession of an animal, prohibit animal custody, use governmental fines, and sue the police. The criminal responsibility of the judge is discussed in Article 45. The law where there's a code of conduct that can be reported to the police by the Food Institute, including... if the manager neglects his duties, in order to ensure animal laws and regulations. So the Agency has a clear record of dealing with these laws. As a result of the information on the farms, one farm of pigs has been thoroughly forced, and I got the information this morning that they're finished by haking that farms are on the loose but aren't on the booths. In other words, these actions are working by the Food Agency. Depending on the nature of the fractures, it is desirable for the Agency to take effect, but it should be noted that the Agency is also subject to a moderate measure of these, such as others in the administrative field. There were also questions about the density of animals in the poultry population. This is interesting, since the proposal has been a little keen on the European Union to establish the rules for the welfare of poultry in the European Union, it is expected that there will be 42 pounds [42 kg] on a square foot [42 kg]. In the regulations set out here in Iceland, there is a warrant for the production of chickens with a maximum density of 39 pounds [39 kg], i.e. less than is a common criteria in the European Union. However, the source falls if it is found in the Food Agency's surveillance that the conditions for dibruption are not met and that the manufacturers are moving down to 33 kilos, the strongest structure in the Northern Hemisphere. Monitoring of all chicken farms according to the regulations shall be completed on January 28, 2016. The Commission originally assumed that there are 42 pounds [42 kg] as it is in the European Union, but during the implementation of the Regulation it was noted that among others, Norway and Sweden - which are not European countries, Sweden - is the maximum density of 36 pounds [36 kg] per square inch. The older Regulation expected much more density, and this is therefore a significant improvement from the previous beyond any other criterion at that time. At that time, 19 chickens were compared to four square feet [2 m] each, and chickens have grown at that time. It has to be noted that chickens are usually slaughtered at 32 to 36 days of age. The situation of the implementation of the Regulation was also asked. It is true that between 16 October 2014 and January 22, 2015, regulations for the well - being of horses, cattle, pigs, minks, and domestic birds have been published. Work at the Ministry is still being carried out on behalf of pets, and the work of the Regulation is being planned to complete in November. This will be reviewed in a Regulation on transport of livestock. True, significant progress has followed the laws and regulations set out. I'm sorry, I can't answer the question, due to a lack of time, about cattle. I'll do it later in my closing words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u37	Mr. President. New laws on the welfare of animals were adopted at the end of the spring of 2013. There had been a lot of work and preparation in the processing of the bill in a professional committee where a cross - political agreement was achieved. The aim of animal traffic is to contribute to the well - being of animals, that they are free of discomfort, hunger, thirst, and pain, and that they can display their normal behavior as best possible. By the law, the Food Institute received broad sources of forcedness in violation of law. Since January 1, 2014, food management has been under way, and it has the rich obligation to ensure that animal travel laws are followed. Bad equipment for pigs has been widely discussed recently, as it has been shown that many pigs had bed wounds, stalls too narrow, and pigs were unable to correct their feet, and that was, of course, a rule on the treatment of animals violated. A food - management agency has refused to comment on what has been discussed, and unfortunately, the entire article is under much pressure, even though there is a better way to ensure the well - being of its animals. How important it is, then, that food management and animal traffic laws be carried out. It was evident by the law that pig farmers and other farmers needed to make costly changes in their farms in order to fulfill new laws on animal travel, and consumers, of course, require all the food plants that animal travel laws are highly esteemed. I trust that Icelandic farmers will work hard to enforce expensive traffic laws and take pride in preventing them from violating them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u38	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. It hurts when such matters arise in the community and the lack of the knowledge that they are discussed by the Generals. Today, this was the most dedicated case because it was the ideal aquifer following this much discussion in the media. I've already requested that a professional committee discuss this matter, so we have a special surveillance role so that we senators can be sure that if there's anything in our missing surveillance system, we can respond to it. Then I just wanted to come in and see if there was a recent interview with a professional committee representing farmers from different classes. A new toll agreement was reported on the European Union. We discussed just the opportunities involved, although many people are obviously concerned because this is a big difference to them. I think it's such a great opportunity for Iceland and Icelandic agriculture to create a special place in welfare, and that we're here to produce very clean products that ensure good animal resources. I think it's a means of parishion for farmers in the country, and I found that they also looked at it, but it might need support and help. I'd like to see more discussions about how we should focus more on this, especially in competition at the big market. Rather than talking about the cheapest product, we have special expensive products, such as we have gained the advantage in the fishing grounds by transporting fresh fish. In this context, I just wanted to see this as something that the government here helped farmers and others who are working this product.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u39	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this special discussion today. I'd like to, on occasion, encourage pig and chicken farmers to turn their backs on the offensive. I encourage them to make the adjustments needed to make the rules for animal success and to do so as soon as possible. I also encourage consumers' organization and consumers themselves to request that their label be largely improved in Iceland's meat products. The consumers are the best. First, I want to talk about why the Icelandic product is so important and why there are huge opportunities in the article for pig and chicken farmers. Why is this meat so important to food in Iceland? This is because in Icelandic farmers there is more purity in products than are known in imported meat because of the low use of drugs. In this regard, it is sometimes said that in Iceland a single effective dose of antibiotics is used at a convention of 20 in most of our competitive countries. In many competitive countries, consumers are simply offered enough, and they have enough money to buy turkey burns when they have a bacterial infection because there is so much penicillin in such meat. First, when I go to the store, I want to be able to discern the contents of the package on whether these are foreign or foreign meats. Then I'd like to have a review of the packaging on whether an expensive holiday will be followed by the production of contaminated meat. Then I want to finish my case by accepting the disappointment that the U.S. Prayer's Commission proclaims in the media today that cows are being kept inside all year long, although it has been illegal for two years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u40	President. I'm sorry for the expensive experience that's been given to us here. I must say, I am even more sorry for the only reaction that comes from the highest level. The minister of the seminars is that he is sorry. Something has to be done. I suggest that all councilmen who care about the matter stop eating pork and chicken meat. Since I started working here, I've asked senators to find that they were cutting the tail of the piglets to consider that they were possibly eating animals that were tortured. Nobody listens to me. I'm just an intolerable vegetarian. I want to tell you why I became a vegetarian. It's because I couldn't share in promoting industrial production in animals known to be tortured. This is not a new word. Happily, this is finally coming to the surface, and thankfully, the World Council adopted a law that hopefully contributes to improved treatment of animals. While things are happening, you don't know what animals are tortured and what animals aren't tortured, I don't understand how people can even think about eating that meat and acting like nothing. It's yours, yours, yours. A president with a duty. It's yours. So I ask the highest. Minister of the seminary whether to eat pork and chicken meat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. It is of utmost importance that we in this hall allow the well - being of animals to affect us. As if by others, the Internet and its power and community services, which are now able to reveal what has been hidden for us and should be thanked. I have to say, just as it is, first, I have been disappointed by the government's reaction to what is being published from within these areas and secondly by the results of the articles themselves. I would have thought that under these circumstances, people would want to avoid getting involved in a lot of mistrust, and people would stop buying certain products and would rather draw out where things are working, and publish a list of the cunts, and publish a list of those who do badly and treat animals badly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I assure you, no one who eats animal products wants to consume animal products that come from an animal that has suffered, no one. This list should therefore be published. In the meantime, trust and responsibility are high on the government. I think it's the highest. Ministers are to handle this, and we are not to live in a civilized society to tolerate the writing of men on a list and give them a lead-in period to fix up when animals are being directly hurt, injured live beings. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Then there should be, and I pray that I will use this English tongue, ◯zero tolerance, and that is to be closed until men have added to themselves, whether it is production that then yields as cheaper products or more expensive exports. It doesn't matter. All treatments of animals are meant to be a decent society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u42	A respectable president. I agree with an advising the importance of not being given off on the well - being of animals. We won't tolerate it. Bad treatment of animals has been a big deal lately after the Food Organization published images from a field trip in which the animal equipment was slightly unacceptable. I'm not going to defend my poor treatment of animals, but I'm going to put a question mark on how to print anonymous images without explanation. I allow myself to believe that these parties responded quickly and that they have already taken reasonable measures, but they do not show up at all. If they haven't, I ask, " Why has the Food Organization not responded appropriately? ' Thirty-five. animal traffic laws, in X chapter on administrative instructions and penalties, are under the heading Control of activity: In case of serious cases or recurrent fractures, or if people do not comply with the instructions within the specified delay, they are permitted to limit or stop their activities. Upon shutdown, it is permitted to seek police assistance. In 45. par., about the punishment, says: It has to do with fines or prisons up to one year if: [...] b. He neglects to care for his own responsibilities. 14th Article The laws are clear, so there is a better way to cope with the natural processes and policies of farmers than to attack them in the media. They do nothing but seek fault and publicly punish them. Is that the state of justice we want? I believe that no one is as concerned as farmers that the animals with whom they associate daily are comfortable because their fruitage is based on the well - being and success of their animals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u43	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. She's very important. I think it's important for us to review the 2013 spirit of the law, for it is not just a matter of reading specific laws but of recalling the laws given. They focused on the well - being of animals, and they focused on having governments assigned a more specific role in the survival of animals as such, as living creatures entitled to good manners. It was the spirit of the law and the purpose of the law. Hence, it is important that we not become too trapped in the fact that it is virtually the right of those who associate with animals to treat them as badly as possible until some forced strategy is reached. That can't be the goal. I have to say, I'm going to have to say that I'm going to respond to both the highest. Ministers here and some farmers, especially pig farmers, have disappointed me because they speak as if they always need a food clinic on the windows so that farmers have the ambition to do well. Is it not to be ambitious for such production and to treat animals well? Isn't that the way it is? Is it not that in the best possible community, we would not need to monitor this because we had ambition and the will to do well? I emphasize the importance of being enjoyed by farmers who treat animals well by revealing who they are. It has to. Another is unfair to the number of people who do well. In addition, information about origin and method of manufacture must be followed by food. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to say right at the end that it's important that we give special support to organic farming because there's an animal tour. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u44	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, which is very important. I trust that the matter will continue on the job committee. What concerns us is the question of whether our surveillance works. I find it hard to understand when I read this report - it's fine that it's published, but it's hard to approach, it's well hidden - why is there a report of something being done? Why did they not respond when they were not treated? I can't figure it out. I've had one matter of Congress that hasn't been a big factor for. It has to do with public monitoring of health care professionals when they have their own checkup at restaurants and elsewhere. We're moving it back. This too was the case with the Fräulein daughter of Friðleifsdóttir. It contains very important information for consumers: The surveillance has been here. This has taken out the operation, and this is the result. I ask, "Why is it the same with the producers? " We're being monitored, the farm's taken out, the results are in place, and it's available. The only way to fight these things is transparency. I'm gonna throw it in here, and I'm hoping the pro board will discuss this rather. I don't have much in the meat, but I have to be able to trust that when I buy, whatever product it is, we have world-class products. I don't think we should be afraid of these customs. I think Icelandic farmers should see an opportunity to do well, do better. It's a misunderstanding that consumers are just looking for something inexpensive. Speaking in such a way will make consumers look down on us. Many consumers are willing to pay higher prices for good products that ensure that animals, if we're talking about animals, were well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u45	Mr. President. I welcome this discussion of animal travel and animal resources, and it's long time for us to talk about food production from a different subject than about the price and strength. No one here has come into the chair to justify the misdemeanors of animals shown in the media. I agree with them that we do not tolerate bad treatment of animals. No one has. Let us consider just what is required of farmers. First, consider the requirement for increasing production units. Animal travel is not necessarily worse in larger units. For one thing, it is seen in the fact that in new units, much of today's expensive well - being is usually beneficial, but in general, it is also obvious that as the numbers of animals are higher, each animal has less time. There is a danger. Next, consider the requirement for a higher and higher price. The lower price of final product puts pressure on the whole production process, on the food needed for the animal, on the low level and low value of labor, the short production time and the transport of very efficient. None of this is necessarily harmful to an animal voyage, but the danger is invited home. Consider only the recipient, or commercial power. Everything's in blossom and good. It's a place where humans can afford an animal ride, is it? What do these fine companies advertise? Yes, they advertise cheap food, goods, and more often than meat, which are to be dragged into the camp with the confidence that people will take something else along the way. The fact that a Icelandic store puts food production under pressure carries a danger to the discussion of expensiveism. With the above and all in mind, all I want to say is that I challenge and trust in the highest. Agricultural Ministers place their existing negotiations with farmers stressing the animal success in the way the situation has been discussed here. It is safe to say that in spite of all of this, an animal voyage in this area is still with the best, and that will remain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u46	President. I want to take this opportunity and thank you for the discussion. I think it's very important. I would also like to agree with those members of the council who have demanded to be informed who will be involved in an animal disaster, for this is exactly so that those who treat their animals well and have good reason to suspect themselves, and that is unfair to those who do not practice it. At that time, all people with a measure of dignity and morality should shun these meat products to show the need to do something other than silently lament as the Supreme One. Minister reported. I tried my last term to visit these factories and to make meat producers speak in the factories. Let us not forget that not all farmers are alike. There are farmers, and there are producers. There are farms and factories. Many factories are such that members of the Committee who discussed the new law were not allowed to visit. You can't go to the animals and see how the equipment is. That tells me a lot. I challenge the members of Congress and the public to use the great and powerful tool we have to make changes in this article, i.e. we will avoid them until we find out who did what was bad and may still be wasting and hurting animals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u47	A respectable president. A message from members of Congress is clear. Evil treatment of animals will not be tolerated. A number of senators also call for informing who has violated the animals so that others are not chargeable, and people do not have to do business with these people any more than they want. I'm in more doubt about the message from the Minister. I thought the Minister somehow said that it was my big word, Helgi Hjörvar, which would be some problem here in the discussion. But the group of paintings would be in good order, and good things would be being accomplished. A respectable president. I have to say, I think that another thing happened to us over the last few days. I don't believe it until I take it that the minister didn't plan for a legal adjustment in his ability to handle these matters more rapidly, in order to take it seriously. For indeed, such is the case with the Spanish peasants as Icelanders to whom there are men and women. That is why it is extremely important to take firm measures to break the law. While it may be that there is a positive incentive to buy a product directly from a farm, a product that is confirmed to have met the other and these views and quality requirements, we will not eliminate evil treatment of animals with just that. There will be legality, orderliness, discipline, and survival. I'll ask again: Shouldn't you report a violation of this law like any other law? Should it not be provided with information that should be obtained and given the legal authority if such a violation of animals is needed? Shouldn't subsidies and public grants to parties who will be exposed to violations of animal rule?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u48	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, and I agree that it is very important for all to express their voice that we do not suffer ill treatment of animals. It's very important. There are all farmers in Iceland, there are no factories in Iceland. There's no government support for pig farmers and poultry farmers. With regard to the question of the release of dairy cows, the regulations in the new Regulation from 2014 include all cattle, with the exception of bullies, for eight weeks at least between May 15 and October 15 of each year. So it's not over yet. I've learned in the Food Institute that no one has been charged with breaking this rule this year. Of course, it will continue to be observed. It is true that the opportunity for agriculture is based on good equipment and image and is an important message to the agriculture I know to be appreciated. It's also true that the import we represent here in the country is manufactured according to the same standards that we put ourselves here. How we can guarantee this, however, may result in the loss of a worldwide headache - something that we need to attend. It is true that animal equipment is generally so good in Iceland, as well as in the production of white meat, that in Iceland the lowest thing that happens in the world is the use of antibiotics. Only the Norwegians draw close to us or have a similar amount. In other lands, antibiotics are much more used. This is a good measure of whether the animal's equipment is good or bad. Most people, if not all, farmers try to do their best, and nobody accepts to treat animals badly. When we do, we have surveillance systems, new laws, and new regulations that we follow. [[The president calls.]] I think that's what the Food Organization has done. As I said in my introduction, but no senator seems to have noticed, the forced operation of the pig farms that were going on here is complete, with the result that they are now not hags tied on the booth but are in a latrine. [[The president calls.]] The system's really working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u49	A respectable president. I recommend here for the second time on Congress papers 205 and 206, which represent No. 199 and 200, respectively, on the other hand, the bill on the Marine and Water Research Act, together with the Institute for Marine Research and Fishing, and on the other hand, a bill for the legislation on the change of various laws due to the unification of the Marine Research Centre and the Fishing Agency. A bill on the Marine and Water Research Programme suggests that the Marine Research Institute and Fishing Organization will be united in an independent research and counseling agency, Marine and Water Research Centre, January 1, 2016. The aim of the cohesion is to create a strong research agency and to promote scientific knowledge about the environment and living resources at sea and fresh water. Together, it is expected that together they will achieve a professional and administrative benefit that is expressed in an even more advanced organisation with a more diverse staff knowledge base. The main focus is on professional strength and efficiency, but some economic synergies can also be expected, especially in the long term. The Agency consists of a marine eco-efficiency and agri-efficiency minister who appoints it head and advisory committee to the Ministry, but no special management of the Agency is expected. Emphasis is placed on the development of the new institution of cooperation with university and other research institutions in the same area. It is defined in the bill how the Agency will be funded and authorized, to have a minister's approval, to be part of research and development companies as practical conclusions from the Agency, and to be participants and/or other communities with limited responsibilities. Thus, the new agency is intended to play the same central role as the Marine Research Institute and Fishing Organization today, and it is assumed that the Agency will receive comparable work conditions on the board. The idea of the union of the Oceanographic Institute and the Medieval Institute is not new. In 2009, the then marine outlet and agricultural minister of the ParX Business Council asked IBM to evaluate the possibility of further integration in the implementation of marine and agricultural projects. The institutions considered were Fish Labs, Marine Research Institute, Fishing Institute, Food Institute, and Matish Ohf. The ParX report provided three suggestions and one on integrating the Medieval Environment and Marine Research Organization. As to this, the report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ The most commonly mentioned idea in a counselor's work was that a single institution would be made by a hunting agency and a Marine Research Institute. It is suggested that this would be done on the basis of integration, which includes the reprogramming of our activities from the start of the work and of subjects, methods and procedures integrated in the new organization and arrangements. Then, with the permission of a president, he goes on to say: It is the evaluation of ParX that in this suggestion to integrate the activities of the Marine Research Agency and the Medieval Institute, there is a professional, administrative and practical benefit in the activities under which they are being met today. It is important to note that this suggestion does not mean that another institution controls others, i.e. that there will be a smaller area or division within the big one, rather that there will be a new organization where scientists, managers, databases, and the heritage would form the basis for new and changing activities, which will take into account changes in the economic environment of public management in Iceland. Following the work of ParX, the local minister of the same Ciacent team was appointed to cooperate with the directors of the Marine Research Agency and the Medieval Institute, as well as with the Office director of the Ministry, in a closer analysis and assessment of the joint potential of the institutions. That work was carried out and returned Capacent a report which is a follow-up document with the bill. The task force suggested that the institutions bring together a collective cooperation, research and development agreement, which included partnerships between supporting services and sharing housing. For various reasons, there was no integration, and a cooperative agreement between the Oceanographic Institute and the Institute of Fishing was not completed during the last terms. In line with the declaration of the current government's policy, with emphasis on managing and improving the effectiveness of the institutions, the coordinated management databases and the management environment of the state's institutions that are involved in research and development and uniting institutions, I decided to have a bill for the integration of the established institutions and to build them up, among other things, in the preparatory work that I have now reported and follow the bill. As stated earlier, the main objective of the united Marine Research Agency and the Fishing Environment Agency is to strengthen these activities is to achieve increased efficiency and to improve access and cooperation with marine and water schools. In addition, there are a number of savings that can be taken into account as stated in the financial and economic expenses. I would like to, however, point out the fact that the management of the Marine Research Institute has been severe and, in fact, also, the Summit of the past decade, which I know has been severe. Parliamentaries are well aware of this. So I believe that it must be tried to make the work enjoy the savings it can achieve in the years to come. In this bill, all jobs at the National Institute of Aeronautics and the Fishing Organization will be put down in the implementation of the law, but all employees shall be offered a job in the new agency to maintain the legal rights of the industry according to the law. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the workers of the state. The bill assumes that as soon as and if it becomes legal, it is permitted to advertise the job of the director and is thought that he has as much time as possible to organize a new organisation and take care of personnel prior to the Agency's work on January 1, 2016. The bills, in addition to the presentation of the Ministry's website during the summer, were sent out to the principal stakeholders involved in the matter and to all relevant unions for discussion. Comments in the reviews turned to the staff's rights and huffs, the form of unity and the title and one requirement for the internal organization of the new organisation. The statements at the Ministry were carefully reviewed, but they did not consider it proper to change the bill. Together with the institutions discussed here, integration in work, cooperation with the university community will be strengthened, and opportunities for harmonization of tools and equipment will be increased. The reduction and expansion of the State's sector has been considered, and this bill is a factor during this operation. If the bill becomes the law, a powerful research agency on marine and water research can be found to be more competitive than the time it comes to cooperation in international projects and the pursuit of a competitive fund. With a bill to legalize the changes to various laws because of the cohesion of the National Institute of Geological Research and Fishing, the names of the institutions are only changed in the law, except in two cases where the releases of the institutions are discussed. Mr. President. These bills have previously been submitted to the General Assembly of 144th, i.e. last spring or winter in 2014-2015, but were not extinct. In the treatment of the case for the General Assembly, a professional committee proposed some changes in the bill. These findings do not take a position or discuss the proposed changes, but they expect treatment at the General Commission to continue to make appropriate adjustments to the bill to be considered at the council in accordance with current guidelines for this topic. A respectable president. These are the financial and economic costs of the bills at the headquarters of these documents. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the reports of the primary projections, which discuss and explain their contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the primary projections be referred to a second cover. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-13-19.u50	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a change in organizational law, No. 123/2010. The main ingredient of the bill is the need of a rural partner for additional sources to provide localized applications for implementation where there is no sharing structure. The background of this case is that with law No. 59/2014, for the change in organizational laws, was part of a change in the provisional regulations of the law that deals with the recommendation of the Organization for application for implementation where there is no organization as well as the laws of the area's introduction. The bill suggested, among other things, that it would be generally permitted to apply a local introduction to applications for projects where there is no sharing structure, i.e. not only when building a neighborhood as a organizational law required. At the same time, it was suggested that permission to request implementation recommendations by the Agency fell in the absence of an organization. Regarding this proposal, for example, in comments to the bill, it said that in the rural communities where a major structure is established, the general rule is that a building permit can be provided on the basis of a shared organization or surrounding presentation and licenses based on a shared organization, surrounding presentation, or directly on the basis of a major organization without further planning or presentation. There would no longer be a reason for allowing any other temporary treatment because of permission of a single project in the rural areas, where a major organisation was expected to exist in all rural communities prior to January 1, 2008. This bill was followed by changes during the General Assembly, which led to the lack of authority in a rural law to provide permission to be performed in areas where there is no shared organization except in the area of the neighborhood. Clearly, it was never a purpose for any of the above changes to limit the distribution of local partners for publication. Therefore, according to the Environmental and Resource Ministry it is necessary to react. Thus, in cooperation with the National Organization and the European Union of Iceland, it is suggested that rural communities have general authority to use a local presentation allowing them to develop in the absence or absence of a shared organization. To explain the adjusted situation, consider the following: An option is to build an apartment on the ground in rural areas where there are other farms nearby and there is no shared organization. In accordance with organizational laws, the community must divide the area with the relevant costs to release building permits. If the current change is adopted, a rural company can use a local presentation instead of sharing a zone that will result in an accelerated court treatment and a lower cost. With the above - mentioned bill, which became the law of No. 59/2014, a change in the criteria for near-recognition was also made. Achieving the use of near-recognition should be carried out in accordance with the main design for land use, patterns and density based. However, in order to be pre-computed from the principle of disorganization in the implementation of permission, it is considered necessary that the implementation of both the major organisational structure, which involves policies to at least At 12 years of age, it is also consistent with existing land use, the structural pattern and density of the population. So the bill suggests a change in organizational laws in terms of conditions for a nearby presentation. The bill also presents a change in the state-of-the-art characteristics of minimal changes in communication. Organizational laws state that in the case of a negligible change in shared organization, the rural government should be conducted at a local level. It is considered necessary to show up in the law that rural management is not entirely mandatory in all cases that there is negligible change in communication. A community control is also permitted to take the usual way for the change of shared organization if it chooses to do so. Also, a rural government can warrant a deportation of certain conditions, e.g. when it is clear that neighbors are not affected by the interests of their neighbors. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
