ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 846, on pay-related expenses, from Steingrímur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Education and Culture Minister, Industrial and Business Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u3	A respectable president. It is a real concern when you review the list of more than 40 of the largest requisitions by public law in Iceland to see only two knowledge companies Marel and Assur, both over 20 years of age. On the contrary, we see no innovation in this group, that the risk is that the business is growing abroad as the situation is now, but keeping pretty small activity here on the land, and the companies that are already moving their operations or headquarters out of the country. The word has now been received that the Promens, an ambitious firm, has come from Icelandic property and that its headquarters will move out of the country because there has been no time to work in the currency department. Last night's News Office reports that there are similar cases in other companies. Thus, the presidents of CCP, Creditinfo, and Marels say that all of these companies have come to consider exporting headquarters from the country, some of which are more than less likely to do so. It is worth reminding you, too, that last year, the Avengers took the lead in saying that the company was becoming a capital center in this country because of the currency of the burglars. It is no coincidence, however, that all of these companies and their leaders have been among those who have been most aggressively spoken against the government's ideas to reroute membership in the European Union. Among other things, last year's chairman of the Axes stated that the government's proposal, which was then made to retract its membership, was the last nail in the body of the company here. I'm asking the highest. Whether he is concerned about this trend or not. What is the government's policy to react to it, and in what ways does he intend to continue to see the possibility of working and growing in this country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u4	A respectable president. First, I feel that it would be right to make a comment to a very narrow definition of why. A senator of what can be considered a knowledge firm. I'm not sure that employees have many of the companies that are on the list as a matter of course. A senator might agree that their company is not an knowledge firm if it is. A senator finds only two who meet his requirement to qualify as knowledge companies. In this regard, there is a problem. Of course, the discussion that followed this discussion has given rise to the discussion, especially the transfer of Promen's headquarters from the country. I spoke with the bank manager this morning. Apparently, not everything in this case is what appears to be the case. This company has received an exception from currency authors in recent years. The rejection referred to a number of months ago and was about a request to purchase a foreign currency at a discount, which could be called because the World Bank records are anything but abdicating, to make use of it for investments abroad. This company could well have borrowed money from these investments abroad. So this was not about making it impossible for the company to work here, nor did it actually make it impossible to serve in foreign lands, although the Secret Bank would have to evaluate whether it is reasonable to provide extra payment to pay off foreign investments. However, the decision to move followed the sale of the company abroad. Not surprisingly, when the buyer is a foreign person, he wants the company to be close to his work. [[The president calls.]] But Iceland's work remains virtually unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u5	A respectable president. It was a fairly peculiar defense for the remainder of the condition on the part of the highest. Prime Minister. Knowledge companies are not knowledge companies according to his definition. A company that can't live with a currency head can totally live with a currency head according to its definition. The message's very peculiar. If his words can be understood, he will not take seriously these warning signs, and the problem is primarily that companies have been asking for some unusual things. I have solid evidence that the decision to sell the company has been taken directly because it did not seem possible to work within the company. So that must be the fundamental question. And now I pray to the highest. The prime minister to adjust to his outback, for of course, everyone knows what knowledge companies are - companies that are based on knowledge, not on other factors, but only on knowledge, but also on many of the services and production projects of others. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister to answer what message he has for the company in this position. [[The president calls.]] There is no change in the prospect of a future. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u6	A respectable president. Of course, if you think that you are dealing with outwards, you are not likely to be able to do so. A senator saying that I thought knowledge companies were not knowledge companies. On the contrary, I pointed out why. A senator is required to have a number of companies in addition to those two whom he had found considered to be knowledge companies. From a talk or two. A senator could understand that all large companies in Iceland except two were ignorant companies. It's not. As for the response to this and how we would like to improve the position of an enterprise in Iceland, we would like to continue to improve it by creating a good business environment, a work environment that has improved rapidly since this government began to reach about 6 you. new jobs have been created in Iceland during the brief period since the government began. As far as the oceans know what to do. A senator's expectations are not too long, but it is very important. A senator does not join with those who put pressure on the Icelandic government to eliminate the seas in a way that will not be the place to protect public interests in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the highest. Education Minister for the ideas of uniting three smaller university institutions in the northwestern district, i.e. The University of Hólar, the College of Agriculture at Hafnán, and the University of Bifrost. I received reports that these ideas were held on Friday at the highest seminary. Minister was among the prime minister. I'm interested in getting the highest stand. Minister to several aspects of this matter, as well as, of course, information on the course of the case. It's at the highest. A minister has said that the matter is still at the point of obtaining data and examining that idea. I ask: Have the Ministry's request for a inquiry on the professional benefits of uniting these three university institutions, in view of the fact that their academic offer is quite different? What professional or theoretical benefit might be of this? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: Has a survey of such unity been conducted to bring economic benefits? As we all know about the financial resources of these institutions, all of them likely needed a considerable amount of money, at least as independent institutions. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: If such ideas were to come true, would the plans of these two public schools be changed to autodiversaries and would follow the recording of schools at the University of Agriculture at the Hospital and the University of Hólar? That would be quite a change. Supports the highest. The Education and Culture Minister? Of course, it takes much more discussion in this hall if Iceland is going to swear itself from other European countries in increasing the production of schools. Well, you don't have to follow a transition, but I'd like to hear the highest position. Minister in this regard. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Education and Culture Minister: Is it his position that this harmony is the best option, because he has expressed his interest in various combinations in improving the quality of the university and the scientific work in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I want to emphasize the point, and it was shown in fact in the Citynes Conference that the current education or planning of these three schools is not just being viewed, but the common application of these three institutions in agriculture, tourism, and even subsequent food development. These are the three areas that can be pointed to as a major target of growth in Icelandic economy and especially in the country. These schools have considerable knowledge in these areas, especially with regard to agriculture and tourism. The University of Bifrost has been taking steps toward a food - related study, which is one of the building blocks for the administration of food companies. Hence, it is not only watching the current educational program but also what might be possible, which would create further parishes if they worked together. True, we are also looking to the material benefits that would be attained. In fact, there have been considerable opinions about this at the Ministry for years. There are a number of reports on the possibilities involved. Of course, this will be considered especially appropriate. A senator raised the issue. The decision has been made to initiate a team of work as representatives of the local community, university, employment, and, of course, the Ministry. In terms of the management form, I would like to say that, of course, it will also be considered. I am open to any ideas about it to make sure that school is going to be the best. Then the question is, Is it the best thing to do in terms of quality? Then I refer to my answer again, that it is not only watching the university as they are today, but also on the means that the assembly could develop, and that will shape my answer to my third question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. As I understand his answer, the idea is, in fact, to start a new university, probably by large contributions from the government, if it is intended to make up a new educational program. In view of the fact that the Icelandic university system has been funded for decades, it would be advisable to ask for a minister's position: Is it really possible to increase contributions to these new schools in order to increase the offer of study? Or, in view of the highest. Minister said he was here to be open to everything, is it that we're going to pick up school fees for education farmers and others in Iceland? This would be a change in this education, and it would require much more discussions at the Generals'crime scene, if that is the case. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is he not willing to agree that the main objective of harmony at this stage, the university level - but I have been very open to various aspects of the material - must be to increase the quality of university and education available and the research that is being practiced here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u10	A respectable president. I just think there's a lot of means there to improve the quality of the study and research that is being done in these institutions, we're looking at them as a whole. While the cooperation, cooperation, or unity of these three university institutions will lead to changes, I also believe that there are ample opportunities for these three institutions. They are important at home in the province, in which a resistance program for urbanisation and north in the province of Skavetir is developed. But the main thing is, and we agree on it, me and the other. A senator, that this is then about the quality of college work, and I believe that more good can be achieved by this route. Of course, it is the task of the team to investigate what is being set up. As for the fees and the business plans of this school, I am totally open to any ideas about it. Considering how many students study there as a percentage of totals in the university system, of course it is not possible to compare them to the University of Iceland, where about 13 thousand students are studying. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are much smaller institutions and much fewer students, so they are not affected by the overall system. In his first speech, a senator gave up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what happened to two primers. One is a standard for equal treatment regardless of race or nationality, and the other is a workforce for equal management on the basis of age, race, sexual orientation, disability, religion, and so on. The Constitution for this session presented these issues and assumed that they would be submitted in the autumn of 2014, which is now the past. These primary sites were published on the Ministry of Health in February last year. So it's about bringing in two EU directives from 2000 on and 2004, if I understand correctly. In fact, we run the train in this important right - to - face protection for different groups. You must ask every beach. It's kind of getting embarrassing. I'm expecting the council to be positive about these matters. I know that the waves were sent many times, and many have found a place to attend. I encourage the Minister to bring these matters into the council and not allow anything to stop him. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and ask if we're not expecting it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u12	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry. It is true, as the senator passed through, that as early as the fall, these cases were in the Constitution of social and housing ministers. The file has been updated and reassigned to members of Congress, since we have proposed a plan for when we believe we can submit the bills that were not submitted in the autumn Council. It shall be recognized here that at this moment there are prime radios related to the housing of the top priority in the Ministry of Health under my legal field. There were four primes that may have become more important now that we have continued to win them, i.e. what is involved in housing. I assume that before the deadline, which I think is March 26th, this case will also be submitted here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u13	A respectable president. That's good to hear. Then we can expect this case here before a council finishes in the summer. I would like to use this opportunity in the second talk and ask about the position of the human rights institution. It is very important that we have a powerful human rights institution, which is independent of the European Commission and has funds to carry out its role. I guess today's an equal firm of this institution. A minister may be aware of the results of a 2008 work group that produced a short but fine report that included supporting an economistic firm. I'd like to ask a minister if she will look to the conclusion of that group or if this will be another group that will produce some report that will not be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u14	Thank you. Funds for 2015 were just added to the equal rights lab, including the year 2015. to look after the new assignments that are going to be assigned to her. However, according to a switch between the Ministers of the Council of Human Rights and the Ministers of the Council, the Minister of the Interior is acting on the terms of human rights. It is clear that it is not the task of a social and housing minister to establish a specific human rights institution. However, we have made a case in our own life, which turns to ban discrimination on the basis of certain factors and has looked to the role models in other European countries. I'd like to point out that the next bill that will come from me and turn around to equals is a prohibition against discrimination on grounds of gender on sale. It's a bill the council decided not to pass, but I think now it's the ESA conclusion that we're supposed to introduce it. That bill is now in a formal process, which should soon be distributed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u15	A respectable president. A weekend ago it was reported that in Kópavogi, the town's employee was looking for the pardons of the Commission of Equal Opportunities and was given the right decision that she had done so, i.e. She would have had less pay than a male in a comparable situation and could not have explained that amount of pay. As a result, the town was made to correct this situation and was ruled as having violated the law of equality for the woman. The response of the town is that he accepts her responsibility in that the woman receives compensation, and that is well, for the period she has been paying under, but it turns out that her husband in a similar position is reduced in pay to solve the problem over a long period of time. This is a harsh reaction to both parties, to the concerned woman and the male. I'd like to discuss this with the highest. Ministers because the town says that a certain mistake was made when the people were paid in this way, i.e. that the man was paid in a husk contract as a university graduate and with the local employee's partner. That explains the difference. But it has to be said that when society makes a mistake, you want to ask yourself: " Who is it to take responsibility for it? In this case the hired men, the lady and the gentleman, are given the responsibility because even though she received compensation, she is left with the fact that her colleague was reduced from her wages because she attended her rights. This is what I believe can cause us to see even more reluctant than is the fact that people are reaching their rights in these matters. [[The president calls.]] I can't believe it's the message we want to see, so I ask the highest. Minister if she's going to take any action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for this inquiry. I think it's very important that we take care of this situation. I know an example of what has been done in the Council of Control and in the official administrations where changes have been made, that the salary paid by employees has been covered, and in some cases reduced the staff to ensure that there is no illogical difference in pay between genders in comparable jobs. However, it has not been related to the charges, as we have so far. I think it is also very important, and it is related to a great and good job that has been done for many years, even for decades, to the recording of the equally paid standard. Part of it is that each member of the industry, rural society, government agencies and businesses, all those who are paid, cross their pay system, and take the initiative themselves to ensure that there is no unexplained pay difference, then likely on the basis of the sex that exists within that function. I'm like a whisk. A senator is concerned that this can make people less likely to try to find their rights and prevent sexual pay, which is an utterly unacceptable hair in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u17	A respectable president. In this case, there is someone who directly charges and is ruled in favor of the accuser, and the response to that is that the woman's partner is being paid for. This is an enormous responsibility laid upon the accuser in this case. I'd like to hear better from the highest. Minister how she feels about this reaction. There may be a number of reasons why they are paid differently, but this does not change the fact that there is a mistake somewhere, and one person is given the responsibility for them or in this case the two, the accuser, and the associate. That's what I think is wrong with this, and that's what's gonna make women and men reluctant to seek their rights in such a long time, unless there's a clear message from here in some way that it's not gone by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u18	A respectable president. I totally agree with this. This is unacceptable. There is a very clear message to the professional driver that this is not the way to be corrected. It is contrary to what I think is very serious, and something that Kopavogsville must pass well. I know that unions are now taking a look at the situation, and it is natural to be a message to all employers that when it comes to guidance on how to correct such discrimination, they need to be directed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u19	A respectable president. One major collection in Iceland is Iceland's Natural Museum. This museum received less than 25 million. K. the budget of the current year, and it is not over-computed that this is an unpredictable situation without any claim here in any way in order to hold someone accountable for it. In this context, it is worth saying that in a million tourists who came to the country, some 800 thousand have come in particular to enjoy Icelandic nature. In the meantime, we are actually giving money in some future view of Iceland's Natural Museum. I'm asking the highest. Minister for his vision of the Museum of Nature. What is the situation regarding housing? The museum is now at the Radio Station on South Street, where there can be no future solution. Where is the subject of a vision in the Pearl that has long been discussed? It's worth asking. A minister of what was considerable during the discussion in the autumn as a result, and has been in the discussion longer, i.e. where to go, and whether to be the crown of a new Museum of Nature, as normally in an island country. I'm asking you which is the highest. Minister: What is the vision, and what is the situation of housing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u20	A respectable president. First, about the last two questions. Senator, fourth team, through the rain drains. It has previously been observed in discourses and also in the media that the arrangement is thought to go to Húsavík, although there is a possibility that when it comes to a decent museum, a museum, a museum, it will come back here, which will be made up of a company that can remain in Húsavík. This has been shown in the past and I reiterate it, but of course we'd like to back it up in the Museums and museums that are already there, including at Húsavík, enabling them to improve their activities. That decision was part of it. With regard to the prospect of the future, it is absolutely right. A senator, the position of nature and amulets here, the collection case, has been in the open for decades. In itself, it is not a complete picture of how to solve it. Well, there's a plan. A senator mentioned in his inquiry about a show in the Pearl, but I would like to state that such a show can never be used in the way that we do. I'm sure there's a senator who'll have to come here. All I can say is that there is in itself no ultimate vision of this matter, but that it is greatly controlled by the financial resources we have for this group. We're having trouble with our museums, it's not just a Museum of Nature that we're in trouble with, which is, though, a very special and striking problem because we really need it. Other museums, such as the Museum of Arts, have for a long time been subversive. Since we need money, this is part of a very big matter. There's a senator here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers to their answers as far as they could go. I'm going to pray to the highest. Minister to correct me if there's a misunderstanding with me, but as I hear his answer, I see no better than the present intellectual and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson is going to turn in this ideal period for some kind of vision or structure for a museum in Iceland. That is then, but at the same time, during this ideal period of travel, we see millions of visitors each year, as well as the fact that we need to face a significant need to deal with the nature of all the schools in Iceland if we are to live under the name in this regard. Of course, there would be a Museum of nature. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to correct me if I am not properly understood that he is going to turn in wealth for a vision for a Museum of Nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u22	A respectable president. But I thought it was a second speech. The senator was worse than the first. I thought the first was more difficult. Of course, you can trace a recent story about what was set up in a place in the Pearl that I don't think was sufficiently organized. I think it's good, though. A senator said in the beginning, there wouldn't be any need to pull this into a group of political lines, but I'd like a smaller one too. A senator is still not halfway through the season. It may be early to make such statements, but I would like to say that now there is work to be done. A senator mentioned a show in the Pearl. I've had a meeting with representatives from Reykjavíkurburg and others where they're looking at the possibilities we can develop there to take at least a step in the right direction. As far as we're concerned since our arrival of this museum, I admit that there's a pretty big job we're facing at the same time and we're also looking for a lot of funding to the museums we've already set up. [[The president calls.]] It is not a simple task that has been mixed up in the lives of humans for many decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u23	A respectable president. One of the most precious features of Icelandic society is the health and education system where people can be expected to enjoy without separating or regardless of the economy. It is old and new that right classes at all times, at all places, have viewed this service as a market for which private citizens should be able to profit and should be able to make money. Perhaps it is the most clear distinction between right and left in traditional political and social debates and in itself, and it is not surprising that the right government, such as the one present in Iceland, makes it more important to bring the community to the point where the cornerstones of the welfare system become market protection. It was not particularly surprising, then, that in a declaration between the government and the Medical Association due to recent agreements, there had been a phrase of increasing privacy in the health system. In fact, it is called a wide variety of forms in this declaration, but it is the same word as it normally is used to present the privatization to a rose. For example, in the 2007 Declaration of the Government of Geir Haardes, by permission of the President, was: There will be room for diversity of health care programmes, including with invitations and service contracts... The 2003 Government Declaration of Ásgrímsson Ásgrim said: It is absolutely necessary to protect funds as best as well as to use the benefits of modified business plans. The exact same was true in the 1999 and 1995 Declaration of the Government of Davíð Oddsson. A statement by doctors and the government in the cause of this discussion - what is going to be the greatest. Healthcare Minister to make a statement to them? Is he going to start his own business in medical care? Where, then? He is likely to know that the world's most private health care program in the United States is also the most expensive health service in the world. Maybe that's all that matters, isn't it? Is the key to raising financial resources in the community? True, 4/5 parts of the nation now want social services, but when it comes to money policy, it may not matter. There is no need to say that these views were not written in the last government. We in VG would like to protect the security of everyone regardless of the economy from good health services in which the Landspira mental hospital is a central institution that can produce life into the entire health system. It is absolutely necessary to promote health care in the coming years, but the solution is not that a personal system and let the ministry be guided by the financial hope of the owners. Private or private health care has been shown to be more expensive than public health care. In fact, it is special to consider how busy independence is by considering the sector and money in the health system rather than talking about the content of health care, how we can make it better and more accessible to those who are to be used. When discussing the emergency hotel, it does not begin to discuss the tremendous problem in the hospital beds, where hundreds of people are assembled who should be at the hospital but not in the quiet departments; it is beginning to discuss the management plans and best friends of the party volunteer and ask for the task to be offered so that they can invite and profit the patients. There's a health minister problem, Number 1. He is a prisoner of the course he offers, a well - meaning man, but he has a measure of direction. You see, it's not about humanity but on the surface, but when you look at it, it's about money. The main minister present is the policy that won the last election, policy of the forwarding party, to deprive the health system of the vision of a new land hospital. A high - school spokesman used every opportunity to malign a new hospital, but the money should be used instead to build up the health system elsewhere, especially in the country. This policy of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chief of the advance party in most cases won the last election, as it has repeatedly pointed out, and so many losses were delayed in getting started with a new Hospital. The health groups in the country thus were removed from vision, and the most important cause of the worst medical strike in northern Europe was that governments have no vision other than to offer that private citizens can profit from health care. The Minister's party is going to lower taxes. He also intends to bring about a health - care system. For a company to be able to perform, do they need profits, or is that not the theory? Thus, two - sided health systems will be attacked by reducing her financial ability to function in the way she is and by the health - care system to earn money. If these teachings go along, hand over money to the companies from the welfare system. Is that a defense, a respectable president? Is it true that the welfare, health, and education systems, are a means of making money, a means of profit for individuals in the community? Is the defence defender, and do we, Icelandic society, make sickness and sickness money?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u24	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For the discussion that is about to begin, the statement given between governments and doctors is primarily a statement that these two parties are going to agree to create improved employment facilities and to increase the efficiency of the system. It is well - known in this country that over the years there have been many business plans in Icelandic health care. There is absolutely no reason for this reason to raise some kind of belief that ahead there are revolutionary changes that will take place on the basis of the proclamation cited here. I allow me to state that, as so far as we are concerned, the government will continue to work to improve health care, with the goal of improving quality and cost. Let us look over the scene and consider some modern - day Icelandic health services and note some examples of the health care that the State has not. I think it would be nice to review giving as the best picture of the situation today as far as it is concerned. First, we will stop our nursing homes, which are run either by rural society or by treaties with the state. The oldest business in this business is a suspect that became 90 years old in 2012. It has been an automaton from the beginning. It is the oldest active home for the elderly and has been given an outstanding service. I can mention another example that was very much discussed here last year, a medical procedure in the capital area. They're not responsible for the government. We negotiated that service and in discussions, at least last year, much more of the members of the council were encouraged to continue to do so as a change of business. A third example to consider in this regard is dentistry. In the time of the last government, a pivotal release was made for dentists'free service for children, and a contract was made with dentists in the country who are primarily out of business. It was not yet a discussion, nor has it been, that the Kingdom takes up this ministry and expels it. I also remember a discussion from a member of the mob. Last year, when contracts with physical therapists were released. Then, in February of last year, I was strongly encouraged to negotiate with a physical therapist rapidly and well on the basis of the agreement. All of them were aware of how the management plan was conducted. I'd like to mention an additional treatment for YA, Krysavík and Hlíturkot. We also have a private health care unit, Sala station and the Low House. What a pleasure it is to have the work there! In addition, there are other measures, such as paddling house - to - house service, the home ministry of midwives, the rehabilitation of smokeunda, and the Blobmaking program, and so on. Most important, the ministry we want to be under the Kingdom is well defined and available to all, regardless of their economic or geographic status. In my opinion, it is very important to distinguish government affairs from public health care. There has been wide agreement on the fact that health services are to be responsible for the public and accessible citizens without regard to the economy. Throughout the years, experience has shown that a wide variety of management shapes are well - equipped to improve and increase health care to the population. The premise that we can do this wisely is that the ministry we are going to buy or provide is well - defined. The current form is a major element to my mind on these matters. A fundamental factor is that the State that the responsibility provider of this class recognizes the type of service he will buy and wants to provide his people with the ability to promote and promote the quality and security of the fundamental aspects of this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u25	Mr. President. The declaration signed by government representatives along with medical representatives following the medical strike was quite good. It contains promises of improved health care and coordination and, in many respects, continued work on the foundation created for extended work by the last government. However, a point on a wide range of business forms is a major concern that personal attention should be given to health care at the front of the public's will. The majority of the public wants tax money to be provided in the medical system, and bioavailability is equal regardless of the economy, but it does not want tax money to be used to make money for individuals who make service contracts for health care. Private business is more expensive because there is less flexibility in the system, less coordination and more monitoring costs. Prime Minister has suggested that increasing private business is not on the program. The minister of finance is in a screaming opposition, and it feels that private business is well - off and efficient. That's where the highest talk is. A financial minister like him simply has no insight into Icelandic health systems and does not realize that the world's biggest problem is a lack of financial resources and low control of personal business. We in the United States want clear answers from the highest level. Secretary of health. Will he expand his personal business with the health system, or will he not? He has made many answers following the proclamation, but none of them can be interpreted as a clear guide in that matter. The majority. Ministers don't tell us about their plans?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u26	A respectable president. This is an important discussion. In the short future, we have not been pulled away by the cry following the medical debate as many others have. We've got it on our policy list to support a wide range of business plans in health care, and to be honest, it's not how you're not supposed to do it. Health care is characterized by a wide variety of management practices. For example, the U.S.A. and nursing homes, all professionals' offices are privateists, and they are a major component of health care in Iceland. However, it is very important for us to consider that health insurance is running its course. We are not going to take this system to the United States, where people have to buy health insurance. It is very important that all Icelanders be medically secure and that it is an official system. Then let us not think that even if all of this is the solution, there is also the power of the Kingdom. There is a very large program in health care in Iceland that is about making better use of talents, time, and money. Another challenge is to build a room because we do not want the elderly to be in the hospital; these are expensive space; nursing homes are much better suited. An obvious example of one of the many useful subjects of a variety of business plans, and let us be open to this, that is, the history of a nursing home. The other project is to promote health care. Health care should be much more the first stop for patients in Iceland. It's working out pretty bad. I think that on this project, we need to promote our health care and look to a more broad range of business plans, trying to make use of the power of a free spirit to build them up. In what competition does health care really compete? It's the labs. We don't want patients to go to specialists, they have private business. Rather, we want them to go to more economic units, which are health care, and the question is, How do we build it up? [[The president calls.]] I think there's a wide variety of business plans for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u27	V.E.G. President. No matter where we live in our country, having access to good health care is important to all of us. Access to health care is one of the basic factors that people look to when choosing to live. All of us have the right to a safe and healthy health care. It has been a pleasure to see the steps that have taken during this ideal period in the structure of the health system. The forwarding and independent party government has largely increased money for health care, i.e. in the general management of health institutions and buying equipment, with the goal of increasing the service and building up facilities for those who are employed in this article. This may be true if we consider, for example, that this year's contributions to the Hospital will be some 46 billion dollars. or about 50 billion with special income. The annual sales money at the hospital has been fivefold since 2012, and now 5.5 billion have been printed with ear - to - ear purchases at the Land Hospital in 2014 -2018. In addition to this, health - care costs have increased, as well as funding, to strengthen health - care institutions and clinics, an increase of about 100 million. K. and that's how we can keep talking. Therefore, it is safe to say that the D.O. and the Independence Party government sees the importance of expanding funds into this category and looking forward to further building. This vision is seen, among other things, in a recent report on health repair, which highlights the importance of the health system and further strengthens health care in the country. However, it is important to consider ways that are designed to promote health care. I believe that we should be open to these ideas while it's an improvement for everyone, that everyone has equal access regardless of place, position, or economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u28	Mr. President. The kind thing about a free enterprise where there is a chance of profit, a company like we know them, is that such companies are so hard to create and keep customers. That's the point. Peter Drucker, father of modern management, accurately defines the purpose of an enterprise, the sole purpose of which is to create and hold customers. When we are going to use such forms, we need to ask ourselves: " Am I going to use this business plan, since we want less of my clients? We'd like less customers when the tomcats are incarcerated. That's why we don't want the private custody of prison punishment. We do not want to have stakeholders in the community that benefit from growing prisoners. That's the way it is in the United States. There, an enormous and powerful industry has developed that affects the legislatator in order to achieve more ◯cence. That's what we know. This has been discussed in a number of reports in the United States. As we look at health - care programs, I want to quote Peter Drucker again, who says: "Almost every hospital says, our policy is to improve health, we have a health policy. No, says Drucker, you're taking care of sick patients. We don't want any more patients. So at least we need to be very aware that if the business plan we're going to have is a business with a profit chance, we've already set up and come up the risk of it, or at least we're going to have the interests of more patients. Let us keep on the watch. This does not necessarily mean that it does, but let us be aware of it. That's the question of a different type of business. Governments are not the most efficient means, but there are automatons. [[The president calls.]] Like what? The health minister mentioned it has worked very well when it comes to health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u29	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Swavarsdótti Svandís's Svavarsdóttir for raising the subject of this important discussion. In recent years, patients' costs have also been increasing, low - income groups, we can name the poor, and the generally low - income population is already beginning to delay medical visits. Therefore, all changes in the health system are to be increased or simply not to reduce the patient's expense factors in the wrong direction. Hv. A minister says, "The scheme of action is a matter of utmost importance to me." I'd like to say that there's a big difference between whether an auto-employment agency is being run on a social basis or whether the Agency's purpose is to achieve a profit fund, i.e. to run the Agency with interest in profit. Therefore, in the declaration of Iceland's Medical Association and various Ministers, I have a little fin, which says, by permission of a president: ▪ A wide range of management forms needs to be opened So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it possible on his part to open up to business plans that are motivated by profit? It also says that in the declaration,... accompanied by an equal figure in payments irrespective of business practices. Does a minister naturally think that the State will pay the same thing to established social foundations as to those who run the race for gain in view? Is it to be paid the same for different institutions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u30	V.E.G. President. There were two statements in a talk Svandís Svavarsdóttir. I'd like to make a comment. The first is that 80% of the people want the State to run all health care. I'm not sure that there is more to it than that the government takes all U.N. treatment institutions, Helpkot, Smokeyloaf, or Medical Transport and starts running it itself. There is no interest in that in Icelandic society. Second, of course, private business is no personalization in a natural sense. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson talked about earlier. It's just a matter of getting the best service and most of it for the smallest amount of money. Under certain circumstances, it may well be that the State does so, and in other cases it may be more favorable to some private people to care for it, as they have done many of them for decades with excellent results. It's not really that complicated. I don't think we should worry about it and use the old phrases that you read 35 years ago in Nationality and Neiss, that they have something to profit or money from anything. This is a matter of what taxpayers gain, those who pay for the ministry that we all agree on the need to provide. These old speeches haven't changed. Nothing changed, despite the transformation of Icelandic society to the great benefit of all these decades. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u31	The quality of greed is the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u32	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator concluded that the old talks had not changed, and we can be sure that we hear the exact evidence we have heard of decades of independence, and they have not seen reason to change them. What it's all about here, and what we need to talk about is where we're going. I have thought and held that two systems in Iceland should be largely subject to state responsibility and to government management, to the responsibility of taxpayers, to health and education. They're not supposed to get decrepitated by a political opportunity policy. And I'm going to hope that those statements are held as the highest. A minister gave, of course, tremendous importance that we are going to continue running a system that is open to all, regardless of the economy, equal access, and equal. If it's guided, I'm not afraid of the rest of my life. But there is a flash of air, and there is always something to be implied, and we need to talk about it. We want it to be a good access, a good supply is enough, quality guaranteed, monitoring and the responsibility of the State, to the public people's authority that this is all right. Then we can talk about other forms of management, and there are basically automatons. Is there any difference between them and an institution that, like a what? paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson shaves before, is it to increase his own profit? Such an institution has no other objective than the health system, which needs to be reduced or wanted to do so, i.e. by improving health and public health, by prophylaxis and so forth, rather than making profits in the business plans per se. Therefore, clearer answers must be made from the highest level. Minister. Is he referring to autologous institutions or institutions that are run by the health professions, or is he talking about private business that have the main goal of profit? I am afraid because there are precedents and we can see it in many places, as in the United States, how that system has led to a double system where a person is authorized to take on extra income, etc. Point 7 is disturbing to the agreement that is being discussed, which in other respects was very good. [[The president calls.]] Who wants the highest. Minister on course? We're telling you more about your answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u33	A respectable president. This is important and need to be discussed. We will discuss the management plans for health care, primarily but in public business. We're discussing health care as we call it, but I just want to talk about the education system that for some reason we don't call education. As we have seen in the Senate speeches and the Supreme Court. In Iceland we have enjoyed a wide variety of business plans in public service. I know it well from my previous life in the field of education, health, transportation systems, etc. It must be acknowledged that we have both very good experience in public business and in limited experience. The same is true of private service and the ministry that has been run by automatons. In some cases it has been particularly successful, in other cases it has not. When it has been misapplied, it is in common whether it is public business, private business, or whatever, that there is a lack of policy, monitoring, and implementation. That is the key to making sure that our ministry is good. I would like to emphasize in this discussion that it must be the most important service, that the service is best, of course, that it is making good use of money, but primarily that it is a good service, that equality is to all who are expected to enjoy the ministry as well as to ensure that the service is performed. One of the problems with private business in public service may be that a private person, as you say, might not be able to cover the ministry or the career of the ministry as a government business, however, can when well controlled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u34	A respectable president. Thank you for starting a discussion about health care. Health costs are high and will only increase in years to come. Although government funds will be inaccessible in the immediate future and if debt will be paid down, which will allow room for more money to be made to the health system, that is not enough. In order to maintain the system and to provide one of the best health systems in the world, a great increase is needed in the years and decades. These are the facts that we need to keep in mind in this discussion. In the United States, over 80% of the total health cost is higher than the average OECD. Is it not possible to increase taxes in order to meet increased health costs? You may be able to reach a desired goal, but will there be a steady rise in taxes in the coming decades to meet expenses that will always continue to increase? That's completely unrealistic. It is in this atmosphere that the discussion of a wide variety of business forms has developed. If we want all or almost all health care to be Kingdomized and that we offer one of the best health systems in the world, we have to answer the question where money should come from, not just for the next few years, but for decades. As a minister rightly noted, there have been various forms of health care. Private operations, for example, have become useful to health care, nursing, home care, and special care. Of course, the State should continue or, to the most extent, pay for the services provided; otherwise, it is not an option; it is important to be clean. The question, though, is whether the State has to care for all health care. We need to be careful about these things, to make sure that everyone has the right to work, and to take advantage of all the basic health - care systems regardless of the economy. Those less fortunate must not be left out. The cost of individual activity cannot be increased from the present. [[The president calls.]] That is where we have reached the limit of endurance. That's the exit point we have to build on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u35	A respectable president. I would also like to start by thanking for this discussion and calling attention to it as one of the many discussions that take place at the high Council that do not get enough time. Here we have two minutes to give very brief talks on a very important subject. Many have thus noted that the matter is, in fact, very simple, that it is about getting the best service for the lowest price. I disagree with you. I mean, there's more complicated questions at hand. Tenth. s.. This is also about motivation. It's about what's behind the behavior of the system. This will be clear when we talk about prison matters. They are in many ways or in most ways different from health care, but they are good examples to show the point that when you create a system that makes something that we think is bad, we have to figure out exactly what we're doing. At the good time. I'd like to take it as an example. A FEW is an institution of independence, but it has often been criticized for running machines. It has been criticized for adding to the problem the Agency is about to solve. Now I'm not going to agree with the criticism here, and now because I'm not sure that it's the driving force at the U.N., but the danger is there, the problem is there, and we have to take care of it, and we need to keep this motive in mind when we take the business plan. This is not to say that the problem is larger than that. Of course, it depends on the importance of this aspect, but it is more than simply the cost and quality of the ministry. That's what I wanted to come to. Finally, I suggest that the International Parliamentary Committees regularly be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u36	A respectable president. I thank the participants for their good and in many respects a clear discussion. The following discussion is that the social basis for the health system is applied. This situation is in danger because it is not just mentioned in talks at the highest level. A minister thinks more senators say, as was the case at the highest level. Minister says, the business plan itself is a major factor. There, the minister and other members of the council who have spoken on this issue do not agree with 80% of the people who want social health care, social services, and social care. The Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir says in a newspaper article these days, with the permission of a president: If there is an equation to health care, there is no answer to increased private operations. In this context, congregations are involved in politics; not in the market. We must remember that private or private health care is more expensive than public health care, and why? First, because there is more management costs in general in private health care and, in fact, a lower pay for those doing daily activities and supporting services such as cleaning ups. The increased cost of private health care services is largely in the pay of executives and middle managers but little to the general staff. This is reality. The second reason why private health care is more expensive is the need to pay interest to owners. If it is done, paying interest to owners from the system, it is a major asset to the health care facility. You see, private business is a profit. V.E.G. A minister has not yet answered that question, and I would wish he would answer it here in his final address: Is it a defence to take money out of the health system? Is there a defense to exploit health and disease? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u37	A respectable president. I'm telling you right away, it's not the purpose of the person here to make a list of health and disease money, it's not like that. I don't think anyone is interested in practicing, no matter where he is in politics. In many ways, this discussion has been very good. It is true that I am a little surprised by the way the head of a health committee particularly deals with the diversity of health care programs, although only for the politicians that the Conspiracy ran during the terms of 2007/2011. Then, in the Continental Convention, it said, by permission of the President: There will be room for diverse management forms in health care, including with tender tenders and service contracts So there has been fine agreement on this aspect of health care among Icelandic political parties. I just want to keep it up. Not to be overlooked is also the fact that the root cause of what is being worked on at the health - care provider's field is based on work started in 2011 by the then welfare minister, the Guðbjartur - fearing Hannesson, and that is the Boston Consulting Group report. This includes one specific suggestion, following sixty experts'opinion, which states that payment arrangements for healthcare providers should be reviewed with flexibility, practicalness, and quality guided. So the basic thing in what I'm saying is that the business plans are irrelevant is that once we have weighed and weighed the cost of business, quality, and security of the service that is on them, we should decide how to use the funds available to heal and to treat people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to adopt the subject of an anniversary fund of Iceland's University in the context of public contributions to the university level and the direct application to the highest level. Secretary of education and culture. So I'm just recording the story, so the University of Iceland celebrated its 100th birthday in 2011 and was set up for a so - called 100th anniversary fund. As a result, a committee was set up where representatives from the Council, the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the University of Iceland who then made suggestions on how contributions to research in the century's fund should develop between 2012 and 2020. The aim of the fund was to promote research and innovation that would be used for the development of employment and valuables in behalf of Icelandic society and nation. Now I don't have to talk about how much it's important to the community that there's a lot of research here and innovation and science in the University of Iceland, as well as in other colleges and other scientific institutions and research institutions. It is important for a job to have well - educated people, but it also makes good use of basic research, such as the basis for more practical research in a variety of articles. And often it is so, so I use this opportunity, that it is not predictable what research will be used. Thus, many scholars who invented the binary system, which is the basis for all programming in modern times - Boole's name - were perfectly mistaken for their research and scientific work, were to create some rational system that no real purpose ever served. [[Up front.]] It came in the day later, decades later, that it is the foundation of all modern computers. Am I right? Am I right. Senator? So basic research is of utmost importance. The work force mentioned above suggested that the contributions would be greatly improved, and the aim should be that contributions to the university level would develop so that in the first place Iceland would reach the so - called OECD average of the University of 2016, and then in 2020 we would be nearing the average college development for other countries. Sadly, there we have been submarines for many years back in time, whether before or after a recession. Of course, we know that things did not improve during a crisis. But now we should be looking ahead. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of how this declaration has been followed and how he envisions the development of a contribution to the university level to 2020, whether the work is still being done according to what the work force suggested at the time, and then he hears how it is done. The minister sees to it that the contributions develop to the 100th anniversary fund and on the other hand, to the university level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry for the anniversary of the University of Iceland. On June 17, 2011, the then government and the Council adopted the anniversary fund of Iceland's University, such as winter. The senator turned aside in his inquiry. The aim of the fund is to promote research and innovation that will be used for the development of employment and valuables in behalf of Icelandic society and nation. The agreement on a century's anniversary fund for the University of Iceland is a special addition to the Ministry of Education and Culture Convention on Education and Studies of Iceland during 2012-2016. At the institutions of the fund, a special task force was appointed by members of the Council, the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and Iceland's University to evaluate and make proposals for contributions to the fund during 2012-2020. He began to work with a special paper and a proposal for contributions to the University of Iceland's 100th century fund in 2012 (U.S.A.) in 2012/2020. Then, at their meeting on October 7, 2011, the government approved the following proposal, by permission of a respectable president: It is estimated that the government will agree with a group proposal that the budget for Iceland's High School of the Age will be 150 million. K. In 2011, 250 million. K. In 2012, 400 million. K. In 2013 and 700 million. K. in 2014. At the same time, in 2013 there will be a plan for contributions to the annual budget for 2015-2020, considering the economic interest of this country on the land and the state of the budget. I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of a traditional quote, that the economic and financial status of those decisions should be considered. The contributions of 2011-2014 have been in accordance with the above approved government, and there is no need to list that further. The University of Iceland renders it in accordance with the arrangement for a century of education and cultural education a written paper for October 1st of each year on the basis of the National University of Iceland's budget for achieving its goals. As an estimate of the effectiveness of Iceland's University, the objective indicators and proposals of a team for contributions to Iceland's High School of the Ages are followed in 2012◯2020 and in the course of the University of Iceland (Volvey School of 2011-2016). The aim of an anniversary fund was for a student at the University of Iceland to reach an OECD average in 2016 and an average of the Northern countries in 2020. As we consider the annual contribution to the fund, we should take into account the objective of Iceland's University for their goals as set out in school policy and in accordance with the budget and the financial balance over the above period. The Scientific and Technical Action Programme proposed to work on a university funding programme until 2020 is at the top of the highest budget for the University of Iceland. The Ministry of Presidency has appointed a group to discuss contributions to the fund in 2016◯2020. Although there has been a delay in the work force, budget 2015 allows for the current budget of the year 2015 of the century's annual budget, i.e. continue 700 million. Dec., and therefore, the shelf-life of the Annex is extended for one year. Now I'm going to make a second question. Senator. Within the Ministry of Education and Culture, there is now a full-scale policy to five years for the university and scientific sector, i.e. to end of 2019 which aims to improve efficiency, integration, effectiveness and quality within the system. The Ministry's strategy is one of the ways that the Ministry can establish its policy in molding scientific and technical policies that address different aspects of higher education, research, and innovation and support of the media in the system itself. Among the things seen above are the public funding of university and research, and in addition to financing, which are regarded as different ways of financing university and research, government and motivation. The Ministry's policy is employed in five working groups, one of which is named The Flaming of the Party. Work at the Ministry's above policy will be expected to complete in the next few weeks. The Scientific Committee of the Scientific and Technical Council has been made aware of the current work being carried out in the Ministry and its connection with the Scientific and Technical Action Programme. Communicating with professionals, including university, research institutions and the Scientific and Technological Council, is expected to be on the basis of the system's major challenges. On the basis of the Ministry of Education and Culture policies, the main focus on change will be for the next five years. The main focus and priorities will be carried out on a project plan where the expected changes and funding will be planned. In the September 2014 period, data collection, including funding of the system, international comparison, summary of indications was produced to form a report of the Scientific and Technical Council, a new report from 2012, the Taxesll report from 2009, the EMA report from 2014, and a report by the Ministry of Education 2009 and more. [[The president calls.]] The period between January and March 2015 was started and has been working on further analysis, key systems challenges, etc. Then, April through June, there will be a plan for the main focus shown in this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u40	Mr. President. As the name indicates, the anniversary fund was set up for the anniversary of the University of Iceland. The University of Iceland is one of the principal institutions of Icelandic society, the largest university university universities with a wide range of educational fields, and the anniversary fund was a way of celebrating both the birthdays and the more important to further the scientific work at the university and the vitality of the collapse and its impact on university finance and research. V.E.G. A minister was here giving a long talk with an enormous number of facts. What matters to me is, is it not a minister who is not working on promoting the university level, and especially for Iceland's University to ensure his position and that there is no doubt that the goal is, of course, that the university will remain largely financed by tax money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u41	V.E.G. President. I would like to focus on the fact that the University of Akureyri will be 30 years old in 2017. So I'd like to attract the highest attention. A minister of education is to say that it would be worthy to start a research fund at a school that would get a handsome financial contribution on the grounds of that birthday. On the other hand, the University of Akureyri has enormous significance, as I have said before, for that area and for many others being searched, and it has a very powerful research program that is important for career and educational work in the whole country, and the University of Akureyri has exerted itself in the same way as other university students are looking for the international Witnesses at the work there. And it is, as I said before, important to pay attention to that institution when considering the university research. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u42	Mr. President. As a lover of the University of Akureyri, I cannot help but agree with what. The last senator here spoke, Gen. Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir. I've always supported that university, I think it's a much better university than people in general realize, but it's just right. One senator says, the basis for strengthening energy is for research. I'm sure it's the highest. A minister of education is well understood. I come up mostly to thank the highest. Ministers for strictly following the course developed in the last government that by 2020, the funds for research at the University of Iceland would be similar for each student and can be expected to be at the university in general in the North countries. That's important. I'd also like to stress that I believe Iceland's University did very well, sailed through a difficult time. He is now on a list of over 300 of the best universities in the world, and it is in itself a miracle to have dealt with the conditions in recent years and with the small size of the nation. [[The president calls.]] But thanks to that, and I know, Mr. President, to the top. The Minister of Education will prefer to cut back on research. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. His minister answers, and they're not. Councilmen who spoke up. I want to reiterate what I said earlier because of the highest. The minister quoted quite a number of reports and committees that have worked and developed policies, policies of the Scientific and Technical Council, various reviews and experts that have come in contact with us, that the conclusion is always that here, as well as here. A senator who spoke next to me, Össur Skarphéðinsson, came in, is doing a very good job where we receive much money, for at the same time the contributions are far below what we want to see, both when we compare ourselves with OECD and when we compare ourselves with the other northern countries. I cut by the highest. In his talk, a minister mentioned that there were contributions unchanged in 2015 from what had been, i.e. 700 million for the anniversary fund. It would be a team of people to start completing the motions, but they would have to be in line with the state's position. I'd like to hear it for the highest. Minister, whatever his personal position is, as Minister of Education and Culture. How important does he believe that we will be able to live up to the goals set by the previous working groups for reaching our donations to the university level at this point? As I told you earlier, this is a key to some extent that we can ensure continued a potent economy and employment, that we invest in the infrastructure and the infrastructure are mainly research and intelligence. It's the infrastructure we're supposed to invest in to create growth, to create future jobs. That's the right way for us as a nation. I'd like to hear the highest stand. Ministers, as long as he has access to funds, how he would like to establish priorities for them, how realistic he thinks we will achieve the goals set and exactly how he would like to set aside the money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank the advert and others. Parliaments before this discussion. I'd like to say right away and stress that the work that has been carried out in the Education and Culture Department during the past few months is about identifying the status of the Icelandic university system in comparison with what happens in the countries we're considering the standard of living and general resources, so that we can, on the basis of that information building decisions on how we want our university to develop. There are large and extensive questions upstairs, and we have called for cooperation and consultation with the university itself on the analysis of parishes and weaknesses in the Icelandic university system, and this work is being carried out. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and we agree that education, science, research are the basis for all economic activity even now, or much of it, which will be increasingly in the coming years and decades. The standard of living will depend on the factors, on how our educational systems are organized, and on the scientific function. We have many fine things in our system, but there is also much we can and must and should do. I think we all agree that in the years that we want to see it happen, the growth of contributions to the university is increasing. However, I refer to and remind of the advance set up by the last government in a declaration regarding this funding that will be taken into account by the interest and status of the state. Of course, I'd like the Minister of Education to get as much of a class as I am, but it's exactly the same today as it's been. But, Mr President, I believe that the contributions we can get to this lawsuit party, i.e. to the university and, in general, in education, will quickly return to the country in improved standard of living. At the same time, however, an open discussion about how we can reorganize our educational systems, e.g. The high school system and the university system, so we make good money and thereby lay the foundation for a powerful community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u45	V.E.G. President. In the fall, I met a group of students. This was a group of students of Iceland's Art University, and they shared the concern of having a place to live. Then and what. A senator standing here wanted to know what the highest plan is. A minister of education would care for the residence of the Art Institute. It would also be informative to get answers to the findings of a collaborative committee arranged some years ago for the plans for the Housing of the Art University, if any conclusion has been made. The Management Board was appointed representatives from the Ministry of Education, Reykjavíkurburg and Art University. It's like the highest. A minister of education knows that the National Institute of Art is scattered in Reykjavík, and now it takes place in three houses. Those who know the function of the school say that if the school had activity at one facility, there would be a much greater cohesion between them, more diversity in the study, and would create the school a much more special place in a global study environment. However, it has to be noted that by means of vision and hard work over the past few years, there have been additive effects, and there has been growing cooperation within the school. However, more serious than that, our school home on Sólvólvótttir is not well cared for. Students of the school have shown up in the media and have expressed concern about the situation. On Salvahol Avenue, the school acting, dance and music departments have been heard to know that this facility should only be temporary. Necessary improvements were required to be done several years ago in the facility have not been performed so that I know and according to the authority I have. According to what students of the school have said and reported in the media, the facility seems to be unacceptable for the work being done there. For example, the ventilation system is damaged, and the sound shutting is small and absent from room to room. The discussion of housing or housing problems at the Art University is not new. It is easy to find a number of news that discuss the plight of school housing, unacceptable teaching conditions, and the student's working position, and the school's call for reimbursement for many years. So I wanted to pray to the highest. The intellectual minister of Illugi Gunnarsson to answer the questions I asked him at the beginning of the talk, i.e. what plans for the future will be the highest. A minister of education has about the housing of the National Institute of Arts and the results of a collaborative committee if it has provided results on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u46	The president made sure that his last name wasn't exactly right. Foreman, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, asked for it, and corrected it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and says that the work of Iceland's National Institute of Art has been under way since the school was founded in 1999. So this is an old and new problem. This was a contract made by the school and the Ministry of Education and Culture, dated May 7, 2007, on a special housing initiative and confirmed by the Ministry of Education. On the basis of it, the National Institutes of Art and Building Society Samson Properties ehf. has an agreement to build a home for the school in France, central Reykjavík. The contract was signed on December 4, 2007, and it was estimated that the building would be delivered to the school in May 2011, and teaching could begin in a new home in the fall of 2011. Because of the economic situation, this plan has not worked out, so there is uncertainty about future school housing. In May 2013 a team was appointed to work in connection with the future residence of Iceland's National Institute of Art. The service group was assigned to set up a detailed budget for construction of buildings for the National Institute of the Arts. There were two locations, but there were three possibilities, making adjustments to the local school home for Saturday 91, and building a new home for the school at Sólveinsk 13, or building a new home for the school in Sólvóttir. For example, the 2007 study of the Art University's strategy, which included emphasis on a single - roof job and the availability of adequate housing, was emphasized. Then I'm going to make another inquiry. As I mentioned in my reply to the first question, a senator who has come to the conclusion of a meeting committee on the school housing grounds. A respectable president. The staff withdrew from work at the beginning of the last year without any final result. The head of Iceland's Art University has expressed his interest in the school being completely in Saturday. The art school has a temperature of 4,500 square feet in a total of 10,000 square feet [10,000 square meters] on Saturday Road 91. Based on a planned building in the French Trench area, the need for space was estimated to be some 15,000 square feet [5,000 square meters], it would have to be built about 5,000 square feet [5,000 square meters]. There is a total investment of 4 billion in total. and is much lower than the cost of building on the existing premises at the Swahol District or building new homes from scratch. Iceland's art school is an automaton, and it should be noted that since the school's construction plans have not been followed by school, the Ministry is not required for the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A compliment for bringing up a matter of this matter. I cut by the highest. A minister said that a board of consultations was not finished. When I asked the highest. About a year ago, a minister for the Commission lacked funds to complete the cost analysis that she considered necessary to evaluate these two benefits. V.E.G. Then a minister said, if I recall correctly, and if the General's home didn't betray me, he'd get money to complete the analysis. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Did it not go after the consultation committee received the funds, which were likely millions, if I recall correctly, to complete that analysis? Is that why she did not complete her assignment and therefore did not end with regard to the two qualities below, i.e. The Salvakh Street convention on the one and the other, Saturdays?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u49	A respectable president. I would have liked to see this discussion from the council members of the budget. I think the left green was the only one that specifically referred to the Art University in the Committee that included the budget, which called attention to the fact that the school's vision of the future despite the creation of the current government for its declaration of purpose. And, of course, it's worth remembering when I spoke here with the highest degree. Minister on housing progress that he couldn't move, I thought, a decent reason not to get it, despite knowing that he didn't meet the security or access requirements, i.e. the house he is in. It is also worth reminding that not only are the housing issues but it is also the study program, which has always been more prominent at the Art University than in other schools. Now you've got a movie school syllabus. And because our hometown is the highest. A minister is now a major filmmaker, and it is not surprising that we are making that article much more than has been done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u50	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Education and cultural minister for the answers. There's not much to add but important, and I hope that there will be a solution in the domestics of the Art University until later for those who work there, both students and staff at school, so that people will live there in the best possible circumstances, or who are available, to provide valuables for land and country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u51	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? A senator and someone else. Councilmen for the discussion. It is, of course, and I think that all of us who have participated in this discussion can agree that it would be a wish for us to have more money to play to strengthen and support the great school activities going on under the roof of the National Institute of the Art of Iceland. But it is true that from 1999 onward, what was stated at the beginning of my reply has been a problem. There are a considerable number of analyses and opinions on the possibilities there are. I reasoned in my answer that the head of the Arts University of Iceland has expressed his interest in school being completely in Saturday. The number of square meters below is already checked. We know from the needs analysis that has been performed, in fact, at the proposed building in the French field, that the need for space was assessed for 15,000 square feet. It is over 10,000 square feet [10,000 square meters] to the 91 Latarnes Road, where the school has about 4,500 square feet [4,500 square meters]. The cost to deal with this, the estimate is that it takes an cost of up to 4 billion dollars. With the committee, she's retired. That's exactly right. She needed money. This is an excellent lesson in that when we set out committees to make sure that the committees have money to do their job. It is not good to set up committees without having arranged for financial support. Sadly, there was no further funding available to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u52	A respectable president. I'm here asking a question to the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir regarding the activities of the mold group appointed on June 10, 2014, whose role was to revise the laws and regulations in the construction field in relation to the mold and the damage it can cause. This important matter was adopted at the General Assembly on May 12, 2014. The order of the task force is in accordance with the General's resolution from that day forward. The first member of the council odor was at ease. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. It involves a group of families in the country who live under the circumstances of not even being able to use their property because they have identified molds or molds. In other words, people cannot stay at home because they suffer health problems. This is a matter that the system has not been able to deal with until hopefully it will change when this group responds to their opinion and eventually provides some guidance on how to handle such matters. When people live below their homes, it can be said that everything is beneath them. The symptoms of mold in an apartment building are that it shaves at a certain temperature. As a result, some people - in fact, very individuals - develop allergies, irritation, or poisoning. Symptoms are usually associated with the upper respiratory tract. They are headache, eye irritation, stuffy nose, etc. Then we will focus on a far more serious impact on health, since the issue is simply about whether a person could not have a healthy life. My question to the highest. Environment Minister is therefore: How's the work of this staff? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is true that the senator suggested that the Environment and Resource Minister be appointed on June 10 of that date. A group of workers to review building laws and rules for molds and the damage it can cause. The staff appoints specialists from the Ministry, the National Development Center of Iceland, the Agency, the Environment Agency, and the Office Management Board, as well as one member of the Agency. It is emphasized that a multidisciplinary discussion will take place so that a complete conclusion and a future solution will be reached on this vital subject that covers many fields of education, such as architecture, biology, and medicine. The Outfit has been carefully reviewed by the staff considering the requirements of construction procedures for human activities, building monitoring, guidance and training for professionals and loyalty practices relating to housing quality and management and the guidance in this regard. The current position on this project is that the task force is laying down a final report for this job. In addition to appointing a member of the staff, a legal paper on the rights of those who are harmed by mold in housing was taken. This report is now available, and it discusses the responsibility of the major parties in this relationship and the insurance markets, both legal and free. In addition to Icelandic, it also deals with the rules set out in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, with real estate and new buildings, especially with respect to consumer protection. I reiterate that the work force is expected to report by its results and possible recommendations no later than this month.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. the addresser for the query and the highest. Environment Minister for Answers. I think it's a very important matter. At least six months have passed since this work was due to be completed, but it is a pleasure to know that there are conclusions and a report on the rightness of these people. We know, of course, that it is not just about how many people get sick but about how people are in shelters, many of them, because they leave one house in another and are very sensitive when they have lived under such circumstances in the long run. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister without seeing any results: Never considered receiving the surgeon general's office for this work, including some of the results. to look from the educational and guidance program mentioned by the minister as one of the points just mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and secretary for the answer. If I heard correctly, would that not be the case in February? ' It's only a little later than expected, but it doesn't make any sense because we should keep in mind that the proposal I was the first messenger to be adopted at the Council by the 58 joint votes of May 12 of it. That's not a long time. So there's been a lot of work to do. That was the promise of the former supreme. When this proposal was approved and started immediately, a environmental minister gave me the offer. I emphasize to the new environmental minister that soon there will be a series of further issues to be prepared from this report, such as possible legal adjustments and other factors. I particularly thank you for checking insurance cases in our neighboring countries because they need us to step in there, whether it's through an appendage fund or something else. I've had an example earlier: Incinerate a house to the ground, it's full, but it needs to tear down a house entirely because of mold, it's uncivilized, and its owner lives at all costs and debts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It can't work, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u56	Mr. President. In other words, the mold rose like a torpedo from the depths here during the last losses, at least I was amazed at how widespread this problem was. In the final years of loss, it became very clear that hundreds of families were in pain because of the injury. Perhaps the biggest surprise of all was that this did not take the least place in relatively new homes. It's very good to hear it from the highest level. The minister that the Committee's good is about to submit the results. I strongly urge her not to be held back from fulfilling her proposals. But what I'm up to by coming here is asking the highest. Minister: What will be the outcome for the victims? I understand at the highest. A minister to the existing report specifically defended the future, but it was not a declared policy of this government and underlined in speech. paritaprevir Is it Ásmundur that Einar's Daðason, the son of Dadda, was about to bring benefits to those who had suffered because of this and lost a tremendous amount of value? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. How good it is to know that humans have acted! This report is coming up. To be perfectly correct, she was expected to be on January 1, 2015. It snoozes only a month, so it seems rather sleazy, especially where the committee was organized on May 12, 2014. I have to agree with what. Parliaments who have expressed themselves on this matter that it is important to speed up the adjustment of the law and other matters involved. It is also of great importance to deal with those who have already been harmed by it, both financial and health. So I have high hopes for the report. I know that there are many who are in a difficult situation when they have just lost their home because of these matters and are anxious to see how governments will react. At any rate, I think the speed of the situation and its harmony indicate that we will see a conclusion that makes sense and fair. I thank you again and again for the Minister. It's good news on Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u58	A respectable president. I thank you for the excellent talks here and i'm asking. Asked here if the surgeon general had been involved in this work. Now, I can't quite answer that question, but as mentioned in my speech, this subject covers a number of topics, such as architecture, biology, and medicine, and I believe the Committee has contacted the surgeon general of medicine. You're right. paritaprevir Kristján Möller said that this will primarily involve insurance and insurance laws. Hence, there was a natural attempt to move to the northern part of the world to see how these matters stand. I have intercepted that the suggestions in this report are not the least involved in insurance. People call for more protection. That's what's happening. It is true, too, that there are indeed many pained to bind out of these matters. I am told that when there are adequate requirements for a building order so that there can be no more rigid demands there, but it says here that there are, of course, more houses to be isolated from than has been done, although in recent years we have done so on an increasing scale. So what will be presented in this report is primarily what has to do with the insurance and the protection for people. In this excellent body of Congress, it is precisely stated that the staff will submit a report with their results and proposals for reform, which the minister will publicly report. [[The president calls.]] I think I'll follow that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u59	A respectable president. Living rights and settlements are issues that may not get enough coverage here and elsewhere, yet they are extremely important. One of the information under there is the cost of house warming and the cost of electricity in rural areas. It is a matter of justice that all live there at the same table and at the same cost, regardless of their home. When it comes to the distribution of electricity, it has the highest power. A industrial and commercial minister will provide a bill aimed at balanceing the distribution costs for electricity in the scattered regions of the country. That's fine, and I want to thank you for everything. Minister for that. The bill is now being treated at the council and is waiting for 2nd. Another vital issue turns toward the equation of house - to - house expenses in cold areas. You see, not all of us live in a vast and wide country in the scattered regions of the country as easily as many people know in the capital area and in other places. This results in a tremendous cost for those individuals, for the companies and families living in those areas. The national meetings of both administrations, both independence party and forward, make it clear that this is equal to the warming of cold areas. The Independence Party National Meeting concluded that by permission of a respectable president, a decision would be made to reduce the cost of house warming at the highest level. The Agency's Council said, with the permission of a respectable president, a special equation fee will be paid to cover the cost of housing and transport of electricity, with the objective of equalizing the cost of domestic heating on a national scale. A respectable president. This came into the government's cooperative declaration, which says, with permission of a respectable president: ◯It will be equal to electrical energy and house - to - house expenses. As I said before, it's the highest. However, we have not yet seen a bill entering the council that aims to match the cost of house warming, which is also very important and very important, as I mentioned in my speech. As soon as I'm grateful for the bill that's presented regarding the distribution, I'd like to ask the highest level. Industrial and trade minister to when to expect measures aimed at fully reaching the cost of house warming between cold areas and others, as stated in the government's joint declaration and the approved policy of both administrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Ásmundur Einar Daðason for this inquiry and agree with every word in his speech, this is an extremely important matter. The manager was well - off on the bill waiting for 2nd. In the United States, for example, there is an issue of fairness with equalizing the cost of electrical energy between rural and urban areas. So this is the case that when one size is pushed into place, other sizes are often initiated, so it is fairly reversed, but no one should doubt that we in both administrations, and I actually believe at the council all, have the desire to complete this matter not only in the distribution process but also in the subsidies of housekeeping costs. The 2015 budget is now a total of 1,479.5 million. K. Subsidies and housing arrangements. In that number, there is a special additional supply of 57 million. K. to meet the additional cost of electrical heating in urban areas due to the value of taxation change that took place at the same time and the recording of electricity equations. It has been for several years that each year's budget is used to subsidize house - to - house heating costs, not to completely cover the costs of house - to - house heating in hot - heating areas and cold areas. It is urgent to take action, and that's why I've put the matter first within the Ministry. The first stage, as mentioned above, has been pushed. The popular bill is now waiting for the 2nd. And I hope that it will be done as a law in the days ahead. In line with that bill, the 2015 budget is expected to be 848 million. K. rural development to equalize the cost of electricity distribution is 304 billion. K. increase in rural development from year to year. At the full implementation of the equation in 2016, funds are expected to be guaranteed to achieve the full range of costs for the distribution of electricity into rural areas and urban areas. Because there is one size that affects others, as I explained earlier, this procedure includes the procedure. there is a significant impact on the need for subsidies due to an electrical heating facility where rural electricity costs will be substantially reduced because of this increased rural development. The second stage of the project, however, turns to reaching the full range of house - to - house expenses, and then I come to a question. A senator: When can arrangements be expected to fully balance the cost of house - to - house warming between cold areas and other areas? The answer is that such measures are to be expected at this spring meeting. In a memo that I gave to the government last November, I noticed that for a long time, loyalty to the budget was required to cover the expenses of an apartment house with those who have no access to heating with a sauna. The energy agency has calculated that to ensure the full equation, it would have to increase subsidies under law about 240 million. Q, taking into account the value of tax change and the equation tax. So I can inform you here that to follow the above statement in the following weeks, I will propose to the General Assembly a hearing proposal to establish the Council's position on policy-making policies to fully cover the costs of transport and distribution of electrical energy to house heating starting in 2016. That suggestion includes. in line with the objectives set out in the December 2011 workgroup report on changes in subsidies to house warming to the then industrial Minister. In other words, it is the second step in the work I have been doing here. First, it is to ensure the full range of costs of rural and urban areas through the equation and then through the Congress resolution to take measures to level the cost of house warming fully between cold areas and other areas. Thus, in terms of domestic heating costs and electrical cost, regardless of the country's population, the payment of these two Parliaments is aimed at a future solution. I don't need to have many words about the importance of it based on local and professional policy, and I have full faith in the fact that these important matters will result in good reconciliation and solidarity at the council. I know there's a lot of interest in this, but we're also going to be a mess, so we're going to try to put up the Senate resolution as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u61	How true that is! Minister says that in this matter there is great interest. Six. Senators have wished to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u62	V.E.G. President. The issues we're discussing here are, I don't think I'm having any disagreements. All classes have this on their policy file and there have been steps in that direction, such as. at the end of the last terms. I want to know about the bill that the Minister has discussed and is being developed in the Committee, on the equation of the costs of the distribution of electricity by a subsequent change, i.e. The equation, that it was an idea from the members of the Committee that we actually had an end-over in this year, was about 240 million to the highest. According to one minister, it is necessary to balance the cost of house warming, starting this year immediately, and then to take the exact amount of household warming afterward. Unfortunately, we didn't agree to complete that kind of work, but we remember at our committee party in the smaller parts explaining this proposal that would have been more successful because it is, of course, much more called for smoothing the house - to - house heating costs here on the topic. It could have been concluded by Christmas if it had been gone, but it didn't work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But God will tell you good things, chief. Minister will bring a bill about this now for spring and hopefully we can finish it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u63	V.E.G. President. We senators may come here one after another to express support that house - to - house expenses will be equal and improved for those who have paid high prices in so - called cold areas. I'd like to ask both the proverbial and the highest. Minister. When people were talking about these matters, a committee was arranged that suggested how both the distribution and the equation of house - to - house heating costs could be successful. It stated that this additional cost for other users in the country was proposed, including the large industry. This time the price was dropped, i.e., for those who are to be carrying it is three times what they are to be paid for. People, because the industry is taken out. I'd like to hear why they didn't try to speed it up by bringing it down and keeping it inside, to ensure the progress as quickly as possible. This is very important. It's a beautiful statement in a policy declaration. There's a clear declaration to go on this. Why, though, are we being spared our heavy industry as an electric user to share in this with us? [[The president calls.]] We could have been successful already. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to welcome the harmony here on the importance of bringing about a blow to balance house - to - house expenses. I'd like to remind you that it was taken a very big step in the past government when we added at a difficult time, when government matters were in a very difficult position, healthyly making donations to balance house - to - house expenses. It was the first time since 2003 that it was moved. It would be very important to continue on that journey. I'd like to educate the advert that this is not the only policy-relevant administration groups, with members of the Continental Congress, proposed in the fall of Parliamentary procedures for emergency operations in the settlements where this is one of the 11 key factors that we believe need to emphasize to strengthen and support our country's settlement. Finally, I want to agree with what has been mentioned here that, of course, the balance between the distribution costs is that everyone contributes, including the industry, as expected in the transnational committee work that took place during the last term in that subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u65	Mr. President. It's like the highest. The minister rightly said it was a complicated matter, but I fully support it in her plans. I believe, of course, that I have the advantage to keep the country inhabited, but it is a fundamental factor in my view that I am prepared to shoulder the burdens of the taxpayer. How important it is to balance the standard of living between the urban areas and those living in the street! It is fully set, and it has repeatedly been shown that the cost of house - to - house warming is of great importance. True, I believe that 240 million is not that amount but that much more is needed. But let God know. However, I would like to reiterate that this cannot be done by us, the council, or the execution; let us slack off by continuing to make hot water. You can find hot water, so you can say anywhere. It also costs money. It must not be minimized. Likewise, let us keep an eye on neighboring nations and on how the use of heat is developing. It is also something that we need to consider, possibly with more will than the state now offers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u66	A respectable president. As soon as I thank the highest. Minister for the answers she gave on the subject of this coming issue, I'd like to ask: "Where was the reason? A senator and a verbalist when we discussed this, including We on the left green, and we called for his position on money when this was at the last council and again at the budget? It's a little strange that here comes a case from the superintendents whose main focus is on making money and setting priorities at the beginning of the spring, not when we're dealing with the budget, where it belongs. I say, as was said earlier, "Guð will give a good witness that this will become a reality. " We want to have a choice of residence, and it's about being able to do it. Like what? An apocalyptic person well knows the coming from the countryside, which takes much more to burn and live there. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very strange to bring the case in at this point and thank you for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is an agreement, and it is good to know that the government groups are on that side. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u67	Mr. President. It is a problem with subsidies that prompts a certain use. You can't reach your strength unless you use electricity and that's a lot of it. So this way to strengthen helps to reduce the cost of house warming, such as. with thermal pumps and stuff like that. I would remember a lot more, and I would say the highest. A minister to look at it, simply granting a concentration of farms to each person in cold areas, and then he can determine how they use it, but he doesn't necessarily have to buy electricity to get the strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u68	A respectable president. What this matter is about is really simple. First, what is now being done with the existing bill, and hopefully it will soon be taken up as a law from the Council, which will result in the full recovery of the costs between urban areas and the rural areas in these cold areas. Then we have reached one phase, perhaps the most urgent, because the cost is greater in rural areas and even more than in urban areas in so - called cold areas. The second is to complete what was to be done with the transnational committee referred to above, and this includes balance of energy distribution costs, not to cover the cost of energy, but only to say that all of us are going to carry this distribution cost and so to give, so to speak, energy in the same way to all the population. That is the stage that has to be followed now, and that is at the height. Among other things, a minister was to be referred to. Therefore, I welcome her declaration and the others who have expressed support for these plans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u69	A respectable president. First, I want to thank all those who spoke up. A minister of great interest in making rapid and effective solutions to this matter. In the beginning, I'd like to say that it's about us seeing it over the years, whoever it is, that people come and say, "We've added to, we added to the house warming costs, we added to subsidies for distribution. This is supposed to happen automatically. This is supposed to happen, like this network bill now, so it's something that's automatically updated. It should be perfectly natural for electricity to win the same thing anywhere in the country; it should be perfectly normal for a person to pay for swallowing his own houses, and it should not depend on a political decision each time. That is why it is so important to speed up the issues the Minister is working on. I'm very welcome to those statements. This is because this is not to be a question of whether you are willing to place 100 million more or less each time in your subsidies. These are self - specified objects, self - righteous rights, and are not, in effect, subsiding the cost of living in the country. In Norway, for example, there has been a lot of debate about putting money on to the land, but they come back a great deal because many of the scattered settlements are creating currency prices, creating a variety of valuables, tourism, industry and a number of occupations that are being introduced there. So it is not proper to talk about the cost of living in this land in some way. Not at all. I want to thank all those who participated in this discussion. I'm glad to hear it. Minister's working on the case. I encourage him to do it quickly and well because each month is an animal for the settlement and an animal for the areas that need electricity - flogging and thus carry a higher dwelling place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-60.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Senate and the people who spoke up for the good of this matter. As we have seen, it is a pleasure to hear the harmony heard in this room regarding the matter. I take the encouragement and encouragement to myself that I have found here and can inform you that the council proposal I mentioned is on the last record in the Ministry, so I hope to bring it to Congress shortly. I just want to respond to some of the comments that have been made. First, there's a comment from what happened. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, who spoke of a final transition. That's a very accurate description of that. You see, taking up a new tax, an equation, was making a final exchange in the last yards of the legal chick, within the terms of the equivalent cost of the release of electricity, i.e. tax that affects the network, but then uses the income to finance an entirely different budget that falls under other laws. Because of this and also because we had brought the matter into a certain process, the senator's proposal was not accepted. She would have had to come a lot earlier and is another matter. We can work with this forward, and together we can reach the finish line with both issues, as we do right now. About the big business discussion, it's not the first time she comes up. The reason big business is not in the equation bill waiting for payment is because the industry is out of the hold. My case has made it clear that I haven't taken it there. This is a matter that simply has to be completed. I can assure you what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson that we are certainly not going to stop looking for water, and we are not going to stop looking for solutions. Last day, a decision was made to appoint a panel for a large subsidiary project that will take this matter for overall analysis with the objective of making significant improvements in the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
