ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of emergency operations to ensure that all facilities in the manageable terms I make with other members of the United States. This proposal is a physical agreement that we made this year at the end of March but was not discussed at the General Assembly and is in line with the resolution of the Community Conference since March regarding emergency housing procedures. Today, two years ago, at the United States Congress, the first motion was made to evangelize emergency housing operations. It is time and true to say a tragic testimony to the government's inaction in housing that there is still a list of emergency housing measures we are now offering, actions that were in the initial Senate resolution in the fall of 2013 and that have been well accepted by many government officials. In fact, it is completely incomprehensible that during the terms of housing, so little did the administrative part make so small that there is still a reason to resolve some of the urgent housing problems two years after they were originally introduced, and this despite the fact that the executives have taken care of them during discussions. The housing business is now completely out of control. Recent reports indicate that rent has increased by more than 40% in the last few years in average. We all hear stories about it, and research confirms that low income housing costs have been greatly increased. At the same time, there will be no actual, practical suggestions on the members of the administrations to be resolved on these topics, but people will continue to make large statements of insurance decommission or any such action that, while none of them can be seen and no real initiative on the part of the government at the same time as certain measures that can be made cannot be realized. This proposal is, a respectable president, nine teams that I will go over briefly afterwards, but it is important to remember that research shows that tenants are more likely to have financial problems than other groups and children of tenants are more likely to live in poverty and lack material advantages. There is an urgent need to build a new social structure that meets those who are unable to handle the market management of housing and who are able to provide neither housing nor rent money in the current system. These groups have excessive housing costs, and it is very important to create a system that can allow people to take root in some way so that they can carry the natural cost of living according to income. A lot of what needs to be done is long-term surgery, but I'm going to go over these emergency procedures that can be attacked immediately and that's important. First, we highlight a new system of housing improvements that will help build up the older system for interest and rent. It is very important that normal rent markets be made up of such a coordinated system of housing improvements, and it is completely abnormal to distinguish between people in housing depending on their choice of farm shapes. We therefore feel that it is important to take in the first step that the government has now offered about additional rent payments and that they go up the corporate ladder, but now they are actually just tied to people on the lowest income. It is important that people in the middle of their income also receive rents. In this context, you cannot overlook the reverse development that is taking place in government policy where it has failed to allow the limitations of growth reforms to be in merit. As a result, more and more in the average - income group and in the upper average income are falling out of the growth system all the way to nowhere. House - to - house support is not to be of little support. He is not meant to be just with the worst. It is fundamental to get a roof over one's head and the government's authority to support housing and pay off the cost of living. This is particularly important in such countries as Iceland, where interest rates are generally much higher than those in neighboring countries, and the government has to contribute to making a living if normal employees, especially low-payers, are to be able to provide market housing. This involves the very dangerous policy established by the government, or the secretary of finance rather, and the forward movement, the advancement of the growing up in the current way. They have always been meant to be improvements for housing support to all the majority of the people of the country, not just their losses. It is a major change in policy if the government is not here to support the building of ordinary people. A respectable president. In the 2nd stanza of these suggestions, we suggest the change we have indeed given up to wait for the government to be motivated by its own bill. Therefore, we have submitted together this council-sense proposal directly to the bill for the subsidies of the individual's income due to the down payment of one apartment capital tax and ensure that they do not reduce the tax benefits of public security. We've made this suggestion for the past two years. We made this possible during the 2013 election campaign, and this was especially commended by the current Grand Prix. Prime Minister. It shows the failure of the government and its failure in housing that even such a simple change, a simple change in tax law, cannot be realized. We've wanted to support the government for good work, so we haven't moved on this special bill until now, and that's because we feel quite confident that it will motivate them to take action like this. This is an important emergency operation and can increase the number of apartments, can immediately encourage elderly ones living in a large home to hold them to their rent and rent. It may take some of the emergency problems we now face. Of course, while there are other measures to take, it is easier for people to take advantage of Airbnb and other opportunities to rent to tourists during the summer to reduce the need for construction in hotels and thus to help us all to cope with the tourists during the summer. It is not good if, for example, an apartment that has been rented and has been available to students, it is not good to give up rent, especially during the winter months. We also suggest, thirdly, that the secretary of finance and the Department of Social Affairs and Homings grant a legal bill that people who are buying an apartment or living for the first time and the poor paid will be given additional loans by government support to finance the purchases. We'd like to increase the possibility of a loan. Between 1999 and 2003, a population of people was a limited system of extra loans to 90% for the low income and the number of people buying an apartment for the first time. It went very well. The failure of these loans was smaller than the overall loans of the apartment loans. Then it was the delusion to think that it could be distributed to everyone and that everyone would take 90 percent loans without problems that proved to be insurmountable, but while 90% of loans were attached to this chosen group, it proved to be very well. The Kingdom must contribute to this. We need to reflect on the way we want to pay off those loans. There is material evidence to support growth in money - poor people and those who are buying their apartments for the first time so that they can get their feet at the market. The situation today is that the rent of small apartments in Reykjavík is nearly twice that of a 40 - year retail loan on account of buying at the same apartment. If a young person is allowed to get his foot on the stage for survival, he or she will, in most cases, be satisfied with paying off the loan. The question is, How are we going to wrap it up and make it possible for people to buy? As a result, this is a great deal of rights. We will remember because of our experience with this government that we do not have wealth in these matters. We in the Union will work on it in the next few months to develop our own ideas of this kind. I think it's really good to wait for the government's initiative. Otherwise, it should act as an incentive to the government to know that we ourselves will be working on this too. Fourth, we suggest that the secretary of finance grants the General Assembly at the Fall Council the bill to legalize the housing bills that pay taxes to buy on their first apartment or residence rights. The problem with the current government system on special savings is that, first of all, no special purchases are to be mixed, that is just two different things, and regardless of any other importance, people are to collect special property savings. The problem with the current system is that only those in the labour market can make the best of themselves. People who come out of school and want to buy their first apartment are completely put on God and seared in the present system. We must have a system that does not encourage people to go to the job market before they finish school. In words, this government claims to want to stop the school drop. It is certainly not a good message for young people to say that the only way to buy an apartment is to go to work markets when they are 18. It's not going to help keep you from being expelled from high school. Hence, it is important to be supportive of young people so that they will enjoy subsidies and tax returns in a different form rather than just through this special means of saving money. Fifth, we expect a minister of finance to offer the State's ruined grounds to build my tenant spray. Getting the Kingdom to shoulder responsibility for this problem has been a real problem. The government is now offering proposals that the rural communities contribute to the building of a tenet, leave land free, but the state demands the highest price for all the property that the State has and has not been built on. Why? Why is it not the State's responsibility to contribute these cards without charge? I think it would be a worthwhile project for the Secretary of finance to cross the State's complex in this regard. We assume that a reassessment of the existing building order will be made to facilitate the construction of my less and less expensive apartments, and a plan for further steps in this matter. It is important to continue to simplify a building rule and make it possible to make the full use of intelligent or designers to build inexpensive for the inexpensive first apartments. We expect a change in the rules for the roof of our community to buy social apartments and that rural debt due to the purchase of social apartments will not be considered to be a general debt of rural society. There is an example, as when we allowed rural communities who were in debt to attack the construction of nursing homes. This is the legal work of your community, the housing, which is important in supporting your rural society in taking a handsome look. We also assume that interest subsidies will be not limited to apartment loans but may also be possible by other loans or by rural areas themselves. Finally, we expect a deal with the rural communities for the establishments in which the State is involved and to provide a structure to pay for the construction of tenants. [[The president calls.]] While this is seen in the approval of the labour market party and the government from spring to spring, financial contributions are far from sufficient to do what is necessary in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u2	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years for history and for the needs of the Senate arrangement under discussion. I'd like to stop at one point of the proposal, page 6, which is about reassessment of a building order. I have a prior responsibility as I was in the office of the Environment and Resource Minister when a building rule was reviewed during the last terms of a significant and significant restoration of a building rule, i.e. It was updated to modern times, and the quality of the home was increased. Remembering that the Icelanders usually put all their savings in an apartment building, it is very important to keep the public safe in terms of the quality of their apartments. What led to the most disagreement in the discussion followed by the passage of the new building order, which is more than 200 pages long and extensive and is involved in isolation, retention, and all possible, were the principles of universal design and access, i.e. they flinched under the demands that all of them have access to access. I'd like to ask the chairman of the Iceland's Union's team of officers about the exact aspect and the vital stand, I'm trying to say, which we have to look out for, if anything else, if they're in full access to everyone, not to yield when they demand the most, that some apartment housing needs to be available to some. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u3	A respectable president. I think that's where we need to find our way around. The change in the construction order of 2012 failed. For example, there were far too much design requirements for isolation and other factors that were far too costly. As we look back, I think there was a lack of real evidence that all of our most skilled experts have been led to the table to look for ways to ensure public interest and the best balance in this regard. Many of us live in decades of homes, up to 100 years old, even older, that do not guarantee the availability of the disabled but enjoy an excellent life in them. It is then very important to ensure, to an increasing extent, that an apartment is a permanent home. However, it is also important human rights that young people can have a 30 to 50 square feet [30 to 50 square feet] apartment, live in it for a while, and sell it if circumstances change, and people either start a family or a bioavailability thing in a different way. It is a very big step if we say that all dwellings in every area will exceptionally have to meet all the bioavailability requirements. I am not convinced of this, and no one has ever been able to convince me that this is in harmony with what is required in our neighboring countries. I think that's why we're supposed to go over this with our best experts and good work. We need to get a report from the Environment Minister on the changes that have already been made that I know have benefited in many ways and have not resisted important interests. A senator rightly mentioned the availability of everyone. Then, too, we need to consider how far we think it is possible for us to simplify our design and make the construction of small housing less expensive and simpler. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u4	President. Hv. A member of the Parliament reviewed a new anthropomatic law that passed through the General Assembly several changes in the activities of the General Assembly, where the Environment and Transport Committee strongly stressed that construction regulations should take into account the views of the bioavailability of the disabled, so the council actually made a strong contribution, while the Environment Ministry had in its contribution to the council. The guidance given when a new building was being taken over came from the General Assembly, i.e. Those rich demands. I have to say, there are still plenty of places in Iceland that we can point out that are not available for people who are motorists without any direct involvement in a new building. What a relief that was for the Quantum Community and for those who live with some form of motor impairment! We're gonna go for a second. A senator argues that it is important for people to live in their home for the rest of their lives, to live there for the most part. It is also the viewpoints guided by the change in the building order. What it is now doing when it comes to those committees who have a means of access are looking to older buildings, public rooms, and public buildings, because it says that the new building system has come before the wind. At least there we are safe. Our neighbors have said that the first reaction in the business is always that it's too expensive. Then we have good designer and cool professionals who adapt to new demands may find less expensive solutions, yet they still meet the standard for society to have access for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u5	A respectable president. I think it's very important to secure access for everyone to public compartments. That's our primary duty. Hv. A senator runs the guidance that came from an environmental and transport committee, and I don't think there's anything to say that this is an example of sometimes missing in Iceland that we're making complete analysis of the real consequences of the ideas we're going through. It's easy to say: Yes, we want to ensure access for everyone and yes, we want to increase requirements. I think that when the construction order came out, everyone got caught up at the cost she expected. I don't think she's ever been asked for some kind of interest bowl. Of course, our foundation is also in the existing housing problem that has been on the market for the past few years, ensuring the capacity for the construction of cheap and inexpensive tenures. It's our primary duty, too. In this, as in other matters, politicians must weigh interests out of public interest and find a normal balance. That's what I don't think we've been able to do before the building order was set and that's what I think is important now, review the type of changes that have been made in it, the extent to which these views have been met, the extent to which it remains, and whether this is possible from the public interest. We must also recognize that it is expensive to send a young generation today to take account of past mistakes. We do not add to the lack of access to public buildings by telling people 20 years old today that they are to build apartments suitable for wheelchairs. This is different. Of course, young people today have the right to build cheap, small, and to live in small amounts if they want to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his business and many excellent suggestions presented here. I feel like there's a little bit of a friend missing from the country in this council resolution and calling for information on what support it is. A senator sees that areas that may be considered outside the market may be available. Happily, in many parts of the world, economic activities have been growing stronger and stronger. I can take as an example the southern part of the West, where salmon farms have increased dramatically. There has been a lack of housing for people who want to settle in that area, and facilities have been changed to vacation homes and other places, just as there is no home. Individuals may not be able to build their own housing, knowing that once houses are built in these areas outside the market, the property is actually worth 20 to 30% at retail as soon as real estate evaluations are restored. Still, the need is there. What does it look like? A senator proposes that any support from the State could be made to contribute to an apartment building in the region where the market is not comparable to that of the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of this good inquiry. In this context, I would especially like to point to the 9th of the proposal, but for him, the report says that efforts in building rented apartments may have to be temporary in individual areas, but permanent in others, and may place different laws from one area to another. Thus, there is a clear long-term problem in building a home in the country and lack of housing to secure an active labour market in areas where the cost of building is far above the market value. There, rent markets need to be strengthened for a long time. It's very interesting when you travel through the country to see how many places you can see that if you get caught up in business, there's a lot of crap in your house. An apartment made by an apartment loan fund on the north of Snæfellssi is worth what it could be used for. There's no house available at Bilddal, where new projects are becoming reality in a professional life, so I'll take just two recent examples that I've been looking at. The idea here is that countries and rural communities would lay down stocks in housing and own the facility that would then be rented out. We have an example of this in times past that it is not good if our rural communities fail to risk because from the past we have an example of building jobs in certain places, social facilities that were then impossible to fill. However, it is important to always have some apartments to accept changes in employment and to ensure that there is a country's working conditions. This is what I think is a joint work of the State and the local communities with developers to meet there as a result. A senator rightly points out, the fact that once built, the value of housing is reduced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u8	Mr. President. Yes, this is a serious problem, and it is very bad that housing supply is out of harmony with the need and promotion of employment in many parts of the country and that people are interested in settling in it. Therefore, I think it is urgent to initiate any such action quickly. We know that in many of these places there is a home owned by an apartment loan fund. He has held his hands on going into adjustments and other refinements that may have been needed in order to have that home available as renthouses in those places. Sadly, that has not been the case, and the camp loan fund has been advertised for the sale of a home in the country. Not much has come out of this, and in some cases real estates have purchased such a home that remains unsolved. A real estate union, perhaps in Reykjavík, on it, bought it for a small amount but does nothing about it. There's a situation. Granted, rural communities are often burned by the social system because they paid for the widespread lack of employment and moving away. It was crucial to have these social facilities spread around the country at the time because otherwise people could not have settled and lived there, people who kept their jobs in those areas. Then the times changed, and there is a question about who caused employment failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u9	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's problem is that too many places are owned by an apartment loan fund. I think it's a problem because the government hasn't made a decision on funding the fund so it can face a loss. These assets are being held too high; they cannot be rented or bought and repaired as necessary. Because of their lack of maintenance, they go down and fall into security year by year. It has become fundamental in many parts of the world that the state and the camp loan fund face the inevitable loss and release of these assets. There is also a need to consider building policy in relation to the fact that tourism is becoming the largest currency industry in the country. If it is to continue growing and receive more tourists, it must become a vital part of the country in which all rural areas are far and wide. It will, of course, become a major part of a country if its prospect for growth comes true. That's why I think it has to be very different than just thinking how many people are working for fish there and then. The number of fish workers will be reduced. Over the past 40 years, they have decreased by 2% over the past 40 years and will continue to decrease if we continue to live so well as a motorized, industrial - industrial route. There will be other jobs, and there must be room and housing for those who do their job. There must be room space, and there are a wide range of employment opportunities in the country. As technology increases, there must also be a possibility for people living in urban areas to choose to live either in rural areas or in urban areas. We are looking at a whole new structure that needs to be built up, and the state must come in and make sure that there is a chance of having a flexible and open job market in all parts of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the matter and sees much good in it and many vital things that we need to deal with. Of course, we have frequently discussed these rent cases at a council, and perhaps in our community at all. I'll take the national windpipe on it. As indicated here, there is a need for alternative measures. I just got back from a local financial conference where the secretary of housing and the head of the Union country had a conversation. There was nothing specific about the aquifers of the country, except that they asked whether there would be more subsidies or higher stocks or what they thought could be done for the country, where the problem was all the other like this. She didn't have the answer to that, unfortunately, it's going to be all of this. I know that the problem is the largest problem in the big capital area, but it is also very large and large in many parts of the country, so it must be addressed when it comes to an emergency, as it is said here, in some places as a long - term problem. The building order also came up at this meeting this morning. The minister of the house announced a change. So there would be a change so that smaller apartments could be built that they could not meet these bioavailability requirements for everyone. I think that's where we have to step gently to the ground. Happily, the country is growing, the nation is growing very fast, and longer at home, so that there is a need for access. That's why I think it's necessary for us not to be distracted by short - term thoughts about changing this Regulation. When the case was presented in 2013, the Legilant Society made comments that work somewhat with what we left green has been talking about, i.e. We may be discussing to some extent. It gives people the choice to be tenant or owner of a special property. For the landlord, the time frame presented in this suggestion is critical, i.e. that the minimum rent period would be 12 months. It shows that this may be unfortunate because tenants view it as short - term rents, that people are much less insecure, and that they are not to solve the problems we face, especially now that we see more and more apartments go to the tourist industry. Then there must be an untimely or longer contract that has six months' notice for the first five years and gives tenants more room to look for bigger housing. I think it's just one of those things that would be okay to think about when this case goes to the committee. I don't think a lease has ever been healthy in Iceland, if I look back in the country, but if the government were to come up with some means that would be useful there, I think it's more likely that young people would settle down where they don't feel bound to any direction. It's the case if it buys possessions that are quick to fall, I don't talk about building a house. Actually, the only thing that found out from the minister at that meeting earlier was to reduce the cost of building. This primarily involved reducing the bioavailability to all. In fact, all the transportation costs and living in cold areas are not being addressed, but they all need to be played together if they are to be properly. It is much more expensive than the deposit price may be lower, but it's the only thing that gets out of this. My opinion is that we should promote both property and rent, but we have a choice. I have not been a special spokesman for taking the special part in the way that it is done. I would have wanted him to be alone, but something else taken up that would not be a choice for those who had a higher income, but perhaps just like the shape of duty. Perhaps some bait has to be removed from the system as it was then. I've preferred it much more as a share of the pay of pensions, more so than that those with more money can stake into special savings. Not only does one of them have the problem of not being able to buy. Here was the cutout for the growth reforms. This blessed government, who spent all this money on the penitentiary and hasn't tried to deal with the insurance or the interest we have to pay, has spoken a lot of talk about our left people wanting the ransom society and that it's just because we got better. It is true that interest improvements to households are reduced because real - estate evaluations are increasing, with a lot of people getting better, but with the financial value not the same. It is not easier to pay your loans, especially when your compensation is reduced and your home needs to be paid more fully. Then, of course, you need to ask yourself, " What are my goals in recovery? Or is it reasonable for the government to raise property prices that are merely due to a higher real - estate assessment to reduce interest in the home? ' I don't think it's normal, so I think we're playing a little fake. In itself, I agree largely with the content of these suggestions, but I feel that, as I have considered, certain factors need to be taken into account. I'm worried about the change planned for a building order. I don't know how the minister intends to make it otherwise than what she said she would. I don't have to talk much more about this. I'm glad it's done, and I hope the reviews are going to be good. All of us agree that this is a problem that needs to be resolved. I remember the Minister saying, so I witness at the end of it just directly, in a discussion about these matters, in which she thanked the United States Congress party for this proposed proposal, by permission of the President: ▪ Most of the information there is as if out of my own mind and supports the emphasis I have spoken for the past time and is already considering or even implementing. It should be easy to get at least one of these things through here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u11	Mr. President. Many developments and advances have been in cow farming and milk production in recent years. As technological advances have grown, many have improved in their service, and it is a joy and a joy that the article can develop and grow so that it can become most competitive at the rate of increasing import and increasing goods and serving consumers as best they can. The share of the livestock contract that turns toward milk production expires at the end of the next year and prepares for making a new contract. In that light, questions arise regarding how the support of the article will be given during a new market contract that has made big changes in the past few years. Some of these are intensively compressiond into milk production and have actually become a factory farm, e.g. In Flatey, at Migorm, where the private partner, Selbakski, owned by the Shimpanese Council of the Ocean, is building the largest host of the country with a space for 300 cows. The plan is to double the milk production from 1 billion. A quart to two billion. a quart a year. I ask: Is it normal for big counterfeiters and investors to bring a lot of money into the milk production and then get straight - ups? Is it justified that government support flows to one of the country's largest manufacturing companies? It can't possibly fall to one of the targets of the livestock contract. In the fishing road, companies must be only with 12% of total goods. Is it not reasonable that the same view of milk production as that of fences to prevent massive compression in this article? The support of milk production in view of increased compression in this article and the availability of large investors against standard family planning must require a review of bone pay and similar communication to factory and other manufacturers. Today, the market contract has a range of remunerations and shows that government strength can be impaired and discriminatory. It is important that this article has the ability to grow and thrive and can make good use of technology and that farmers can improve their work facilities and equipment. Many farmers have made enormous investments during the past few years in the construction of modern space, where investments have been made in expensive equipment that may take up to 120 million. K. In value. To survive such an investment, the production must be, I'm told, about 800 of you. For example, a litre of gallons for two improvements. What is a major concern today is the generation change in this article, and how difficult it is for young farmers to get up in this article, where investment in a payment market and build up, and banks offer a yoke and, in fact, keep people in debt for many years to come. Again and again, the need for a national bank such as the Lands Bank to become a community bank that plays its social and social role throughout the country. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister after a few questions. What is the goal of subsiding milk production? Does a minister feel normal that state support in the form of bone rent in milk production goes to large factory companies that run factory buildings? In view of the increased compression in this article, it is proper to review the subsidies arrangements, e.g. by cutting off direct payment for milk production at a certain amount? Milk that goes in expensive goods or that should only be cast down in daily foods, such as formulas, butter, cream, scurry, bread cheese, etc.? Finally: What changes can be expected by a renewed livestock contract that expires at the end of 2016?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u12	A respectable president. In recent years and, in fact, decades, the number of cows has declined significantly. For example, since 2004 they have decreased by about 20% or during the period of the last domestic contract with dairy producers and by twice as long. Today, there are some 690 producers. Since 1980 milk production has increased from 100 billion. a litre of about 140 million. A litre this year, though, has been somewhat fluctuated during this period. Thus, during the past two years, the increase has been about 25 million. a litre. At the same time, the average annual exposure has increased from 4,600 litres per cow in 2000 to 5,600 gallons [5,600 L] in 2013. However, several farmers have an average farm that has over 7 far away. litre years by year, especially those with new and better fish and have changed their method of manufacture to have the best source of raw materials, as best food. Clearly, then, there is considerable contribution to improved living and lower costs in individual areas. The milk industry has also taken major steps in recent years. This shows a recent report by the National Institutes of Economics, and a part of the last market deal was just about that. The price of dairy products was thus increased by less than generally food prices in Iceland between 2003 and 2013 in over 70% of products and by more than 20% in a similar way. When the cost of individual dairy products is compared with the price of individual foods, it is found that about 70% of the other foods considered were higher than dairy products, but only 10% of them were less at risk. The cost of collecting milk on land is high. The country is large and populated, but it has been endeavored to bring down the expense that is most afforded, among other things, by organizing the milk collection and distribution of milk to a unique dairy farm. Thus farmers have stuck together. On the other hand, all can collect milk and buy milk from farmers if they choose. Recently, the Galasamala has decided to strengthen smaller producers, and they are now able to buy milk at the price of MS paying their farmers. This is a more than 11% reduction from the general price of unbound raw milk, which includes that Galasamal gives other manufacturers free access to the system run by the company to collect, quality testing and supply unmanned milk. A factory does not exist in Iceland, although large in Icelandic milk. It must be remembered that larger vehicles are more economical. For the future, I think it would be wise to consider whether a roof is needed for individual payment, but it is not wise for us to pay on an apocalyptic liter, although we may not be able to mention here and now how high or low it should be, as the stock market is over. As a result of reimbursement agreements, I believe that it will only be considered how to strengthen solidity by supporting agriculture. A discussion is beginning, and in fact, it is at the head of the farmers. This is one of the things I'll put in them, i.e. how to strengthen structure by means of payment, whether it is in milk, meat, or anything else that may become. You might ask, " Is it just that the same strength goes to a place far out of the way of the next one? ' Farmers in themselves have answered that question by establishing an equation system, so it takes just as much to get the milk wherever it is brought. On the other hand, a decision may need to be made to strengthen the perimeters more than others. However, it should also be noted that it is difficult to demand more and more economic management if the equipment is not to be enlarged. I don't see anything wrong with a company investing in their locality. This will strengthen the surrounding population. It's a big service to have a large farm in the countryside, and if someone is willing to invest in that, why shouldn't he? The profit stays in the home, strengthens the ministry. I know from my own experience that, among other things, in the area that has been discussed, East Skatings County, it is relevant to the rest of the farmers that there was a strong habitat that ensured sufficient work for veterinarians, partners and others serving the agriculture. It may also be interesting to see the innovation and technology of the seabed coming into the agriculture system. Both, of course, are food production.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u13	A respectable president. I welcome the present discussion about milk production, which is at the same time the focus of agriculture in the whole country and with the same objective of the country. Here the minister mentioned that although he did not have long ideas about what to do, he would want to put a roof on the payment on every farm or on the payment market of every farm. There is a new introduction to the discussion, and then it will change the course we are in. We need to ask ourselves, " How did that journey begin, and on what route are we on? ' Complaining is put on, then it is permitted to deal with it, and then there is a rapid increase in prices in the morning, and there is no big, efficient dairy farms, unless and so much is spent on buying a salad. Good-bye went, when it was the top, maybe 410k. or about. Everyone sees that if young people are going to have a farm run and have to start with 40 million to make 100 fortunes. A quart, we're not talking about renewal, we're not talking about a traditional Icelandic family house, we're not talking about the reality we lived in. This may be part of the discussion that needs to be taken too. What has led to this? What is this to lead to? This has resulted in a great decrease in the number of customers. They will also be reduced due to regulations on the change in equipment. So where do we end up? If there are 800 farms today, will there be 200 to 300 left at some particular time? What, then, will be the situation in some rural areas? Which children should go to school? Who are to sing in the chorus? Who are to herd the pagans? How are we going to live in this country? At the same time, consumers normally want cheap product, and it's just a lot of complicated stuff. I call to hear that the university institutions most closely associated with these articles and settlements are united in research projects and a group of experience from neighboring nations and that we take much deeper and more discussions, research and material resources on how the system affects the habitat and culture. The concept of a farmer, as we have known, I think he's leaving us for milk production.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u14	A respectable president. I often find it strange how much time it takes to have two kinds of food in Iceland, on the other hand, milk and lamb. Lamb's meat is actually on the table of the people of the land, a sort of Sunday roast, very good, and milk, that is to say, "Wisdom is usually healthy. " Many people hate milk. I don't know if it can be said here in this room, but why have we created a system in Iceland about these two types of food that costs 12◯16 billion from public funds? Why have we put so much legalization and regulations outside the production of these two types of food? I'd like to talk to you about beer in this context. I like to talk about beer. In recent years domestic beer production has developed here. Is that because of some particular legal code from here or by law? Isn't that just because of domestic beer demand? He's very good. People start producing it. Why can we not approach milk production and the production of lamb in such a way that these products are simply demand and that people will produce them and buy them? So why don't we reinvent the funding system so that we put this billions, this incredible sum of money from a government fund, into strengthening people to do whatever they want on these earth, whatever they think they can do best on earth? It is far better to bind it to a farm than to produce on these critical aspects of consumption in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u15	A respectable president. I thank the adverb for her input and the questions she asks here, which I think are a good reason to discuss and think about in this room. I think it's important, because while beer can be important to some, milk and agriculture are big business in many settlements in Iceland. It is only the reality that we face. In many ways, I can agree with that. In his talk about roofing support, a farmer told him. I think it's time we talked about it. I feel normal and agree with him that there are no limits to growing, and the production may continue to grow. But I don't think that there's any reason for support for that production to continue to grow indefinitely and to think that it will be more developed and that it will be used more fully to promote the restructuring and building of the countryside. Bus size depends on many factors. Farming depends on a number of factors, including by family life. This may be due to changes in family life that humans have decided to expand, to make technically perfect. And in order to develop a more technologically perfected farm, it is necessary to produce more, for only increasing production gives money to pay for technology. My view is that when people decide to become farmers, they do not first look at the support system or the saying system; they look primarily at what family life they have by choosing to live on earth and how society and schools live in that environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u16	A respectable president. I would like to thank a person with a heartfelt appreciation for this matter, for this is a very important and a big concern for abroad's settlements. It may be a little rough going to mix beer into this conversation where beer is not on the table of the people of the country every morning, I hope, but most people use milk, at least ... intothegriery or the serios. However, this blessed industry is also about how sustainable it can be. In this context, I would like to mention that there is a natural tremendous opportunity to export Icelandic dairy products, e.g. Butter, cheese and snorkels. I know Irish butter is now on the table of most European countries, simply because it feels better. Icelandic butter is nothing less than Irish butter, so it is an export, for example, that is used to us because we always argue about how we can contribute to making this Icelandic American and somehow strengthen it instead of changing the attitudes we have for the market and applying for other mediums. It's as good as ready as a market for, for example, a lover of Icelandic milk; it has a good reputation. There is something that we need to support rather than argue about some means of strengthening us to collect milk, even though it is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u17	A respectable president. Like others, I would like to thank for this discussion, as we have seen, much more of the community than is the title, which is a compression in milk production. First, we are talking about the provision of public funds, which we should always take care of and always go over, whether we are turning in the right and upbuilding direction. Nevertheless, we are referring to the fact that much more is involved than just milk production, which is supported. It affects the factors mentioned here, the size of the image. Do we have a view of whether we would like to have a roof on which support is directly supported? Is this simply to be a unit against a litre, or are we going to have it in another way? Will we allow our support to affect developments in our country? Is that also what we need to examine? Little has been mentioned here as the views of eco-friendly farming. It is the viewpoint that has soared in all discussions about agriculture and food production in many parts of the world. There are factors that need to be included too. This article has brought about difficulties with regard to generation change, as well as an important point of view. I'm celebrating this discussion, and I'm counting the monologue, in view of the highest standards. Minister, the discussion of some kind of roof must be taken. The matter needs to be approached so that there can be some reasonable conclusion in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u18	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to agree with the people here who have thanked the advocate for the discussion. Of course, we need to think about how an environment we want to live in Iceland's farmers. It's a profession that is different from other professions, since it combines the field and home to one and is totally observing. One of the failings I believe are at the milk market today is the arrangement of the Eater market and the rules that apply to it. Before the top. Agricultural minister stepped in and allowed e.g. Exception of land-to-earth transport targets for those who were relocating or uniting farms below one roof, farmers were very bound, and the system meddled the whole process in another very normal production with all allowed leaves. These provisions have made it possible for newborns to carry along with them targets of soil, which have grounds other than milk production on earth, where there is a potential for operating a cow farm. Then I'd also like to take into consideration an idea of the highest. Ministers who have entered here to place some particular roof on a payment line so that they can't forever pick up a payment goal. I believe, though, that milk producers should have the opportunity and space to produce the best they can. I don't think it's the right step to start shutting off the production, but she grew immensely when it was requested that farmers start producing more. As in the general labour market, if there is room to expand his business, he will naturally seek ways to do so. The same is true of farmers who live in the commercial environment in which they live and move. Maybe it's me and the young senators here who talk about it, but at least I say we should focus on finding strength in the markets abroad. The Icelandic cows and local farmers are in so much trouble. You can produce more without walking near the animals, but it can't be healthy, for commercial purposes, to punch up food or to screw it down. Of course, there is a basis for this. I believe that we can create a brilliant environment for Icelandic farmers and meet the market environment by not allowing the subsidies of the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u19	A respectable president. This is an informative discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, if I understood him correctly, suggested that we should abandon this system. If we're going to discuss it, we need to know how much money has been bought for the last X years. And they that bought it, how are they owed for their wages? How do they plan to pay it in the next 20 years? What will we do for them, or what will happen to them, if we are to abandon this system? This, however, is worth the discussion, and it is also worth the effort. A senator suggested that we bring the support from living on law farms to cultivate the land, maintaining it in the field, living with his family, into environmental pay, to something related to sustainableness, environmental policies, remuneration, and so on, reducing or losing the emphasis on paying for producing milk. Since then, the natural impact on land has been established, i.e. what food is required to be taken. Can anything be in it? Can humans have destroyed rain forests to produce something that would be fed? Do we feel that way? All of this affects the practical requirements. I suggested that this occurred earlier, and I would like to further emphasize the fact that humans are studying the effects that have already been on the foundations of a shrinking population. We may need to start discussing where this production is to be in the country and where it is not, if at any time you trust in it. I think the sooner people dare get into such a discussion and start with it, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u20	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. I think we could get all day into it because it's very important and has many sides, and I don't think it's that far between us in this case and the others connected to agriculture, because we realize that farming is part of the regional policy and we want to make food in Iceland, I think everyone agrees on that. There was a report, the dairy report I call, which Iceland's Economic Institute worked, and it contained a lot of interesting things. Among other things, the report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ A few years ago, experts assessed that over a third of the public's public funding for agriculture to former farmers and financial institutions. This ratio is expected to grow progressively over time. This report also states that it is those who start farming, who enjoy it, and who find it hard for new parties to come in and have to buy some expensive dairy cake. You're wondering if we haven't gotten to that place today that we don't have to have a greeting system in it. But as we have also seen, how do we get out of it because we still have debts? I understand that in the European Union men have ceased to produce fertilities on milk and are becoming more focused on the size of farms, land uses, and so forth, as I am very closely attached to it. When we talk about the settlements in this, I don't think we've been doing the right thing. As we noted earlier, these are mainly two branches, sheep, and milk production. I don't agree that there was something gross about mixing beer into this, that was simply to indicate that many people can produce and industrialize without government interference. But I think we should look at the settlements in a much wider context. If we're really going to stay out of the country, it's not gonna be enough just to have some kind of agriculture policy, it takes so much, much more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u21	A respectable president. It's a nice discussion. However, I would like to make three main points. In 1991 the agricultural system so often put it into practice. It was decided to modify the old labor movement requiring decades ago, i.e. The money to pay for the price of the merchandise, and to set the forward of the land, and to send money directly to the farmers. After this change, this support has consistently been reduced in the last ten years. V.E.G. Agricultural minister partly attributed it to his above - mentioned speech. In fact, I would have thought that it would be up to 25% impairment in the past ten years. The next step was, in effect, that the employee movement that cared for people's interests in this way disappeared somewhat from that thought, and all these funds were sent directly to the farmers, thus reducing their feelings for the role of the funds. The next step was when we talked about moving the support from production or out of the quatane country and out of the country. As a result, this money becomes even less associated with people's interests and products. It's a totally independent debate. Just because the last speaker here spoke about the change in Europe, I want to spend the last part of my talk in discussing it just because I think we can learn a lot from what is going on there. It was decided in 2008 in the European Union, when global food markets were constantly increasing, disappearing from milk's greeting. Last April, the saying was dropped in the European Union. It has been a few months since then, and we see every week a higher and greater protest by the worsening yield of farmers. We can read reports on how the system change from moving support from the production sources to the country has created a larger and larger food hole for the intermediate on the way to the consumers. There are many things we can change and many things we need to reconsider, but there are also some things we have to learn from others about how we should not do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u22	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent discussion here and the answers to the highest. Minister. It was revealed in his reply that he was ready to revise the livestock contract to place a roof on support. I think it's urgent. The minister mentioned earlier that factory farms did not exist in Iceland, but I believe that this is the case when more than a million gallons of production is produced and if it is normal to have comparable support for the producers and others. I also believe that it is necessary to look into ways that support the article will be most useful to generation change in this article and to keep farming on good farms. I find that very interesting. paritaprevir The tough son of Ríkharðsson mentioned earlier, who may be forgotten in this discussion, how important it is to keep the country in place, and what happens if so much uncool compression becomes in the milk industry that we may live within 800 to 200. There would be huge changes in the area, and this would have resulted in enormous social consequences. We've seen what has been done to the fishing business. Will we see that the same happens in the countryside without responding in time? I think there's a lot of responsibility on the shoulders. Agrienvironment schemes in these areas must be considered in the light of the overall impact. I think it's very important, like the cot. paritaprevir Ríkharðsson stated that this will be carefully evaluated by the university community and that it is time to do so. If you don't, I thank you very much. Ministers and others for good discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u23	A respectable president. There was one question, What was the objective and purpose of subsidies? It has been said in the matter of the day. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, how they have evolved. Of course, the purpose was to provide certain products for those less involved in our community. In fact, a few species depend on public prices. All other products are competitive. So as a result, prices are being kept low, and the report of the Economics Agency showed this. I can agree with the people here that it is important for us that supporting the agriculture is also a concept of national support. It is also important for us to ensure that he or she will thrive, as conditions in this country vary, lost farms, etc. This needs to be taken into consideration. This is a number of factors that need to be carried out in the domestic agreement. We also need to make sure that all the exports that are truly available for Icelandic export equipment will be new. In this way, I do not have the same concern as some members of the council here, that the development that someone has developed will continue to grow as has been in 20, 30, 40 years. I don't have the same concerns because by increasing production and increasing production, we also strengthen the foundation that people can live on these things and have normal living resources, as well as producing goods and promoting economic growth and employment in the country that I consider to be very positive. So I believe that during this entire agricultural contract, it is important to avoid any of the nods. We can learn from the mistakes of others. The European Union has moved the quota, the bouncy of the quatans, to land, to become a possession there as well. It's not where we're going. So there are things to think about. I thank you for the discussion and the voter for starting it, that this was an unusually perfunctory debate on the environmental issues of agriculture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u24	A respectable president. We will discuss a Synod proposal for emergency operations to ensure that all facilities can be afforded, which is one of the priorities of the United States Parliament at the beginning of Council 145. We're gonna go for a second. The minister of the matter, Árni Páll Árnason, had a word exchange before noon, and I have considered taking my time to stop the part we discussed in that exchange of words. In general, I'd like to say this suggestion that I think it's useful and sensible, and I think it's important to look for solutions to the position in Iceland, but I would like to stop specifically at the sixth point which has a tendency to reevaluate a building order. In the relations of several members of the Environment and Transport Committee and other members of Parliaments with the MND Society and the Micronetic Community due to bioavailability, the following appeared by email from the Chairman of the MND Association in a discussion of the building regulations and access, by permission of the President: To give a discount on the bioavailability of a building is nothing more than peeing in its shoe. Imagine a few years ahead of time when the elderly and the sick will be much more numerous than now, building a nursing home with hundreds of spaces for 10 million. In addition to running these institutions for billions of years each year? Is it not better to have a house - to - house and house service available to these people than at home? Today's discount is a disaster in the near future. The microsystems and organizations within it have fought long and strict struggles for improving access to public space, public space, and public buildings as well as housing for many years. This fight is not isolated from Iceland, it is part of a global battle between disabled people and is part of the requirement that barriers be removed so that people can share fully in the community and all its parts. I've had some concerns and thoughts about having to communicate with another good partner in the United States about such a small matter. It was already during the last term when the one present signed a new building order, which was prepared in full agreement with the Emerald Community of Iceland, where great demands for access to an apartment building and not just for them, or for those in it, but for people who will then be able to offer to them parents, siblings, relatives who live with immobilisation and even more so that the person can survive in his apartment, that I don't now speak of us as here and stand at the end of our seminars will sometimes be very short between living and losing her physical health. The building system is enormously large and large, and there are certainly some things that can be better. For word's Páll. Árnason However, I would like to note that that that work came with an enormous number of people because there is a need for a great variety of expertise in the construction arrangement. We're talking about burns, sound, isolation, bioavailability issues, etc. Therefore, a special group was appointed to write each chapter of the Regulation in its own time. This work was under way because the one present was very aware that there are strong voices that will always claim that it is important to build cheap as well as to be able to profit from cheap buildings and sell them at high prices. That was the problem we faced and saw in the face. A fine man who has contacted me, a man who worked at the construction office in Reykjavík, the Organization, the Environment Ministry, and elsewhere, has pointed out that some aspects of the building principle can truly be fixed and the costs being reduced, but we are talking about a relatively small amount of what the contractors have calculated at the cost of making a profit. Most of the innovations in the Regulation were thought of as responding to the tendency of contractors to build inexpensive and sell expensive. This was very clear in the economic outbreak of the crash, so it was possible to sell almost anything if there was a roof and four walls. Have we not seen enough examples of the quality of the table? We've seen molds, not using adequate building materials, etc. As soon as the Regulation came up, some of the firms of industry and other stakeholders came along and claimed from one account that the construction cost in Iceland increased by 20% in signing a building rule. What happens then? The microengineering alliance talked very clearly about the need for no discount on these requirements. We at the Ministry of Environment and Human Rights examined all the evidence, especially the factors involved in isolation and, in some respects, were rooted in communities where fossil fuels are used to warm apartment buildings and found that the requirements for isolation could be properly reduced, although it would certainly be expected that we would have arrangements for the next 50 years or so, i.e. that if we have a new residence, we need to be able to survive for the next 50 years. If so, may we give a discount on the idea that in the future, including ours, we may give a witness. In the near future, do all of us need to use our energy with caution, including those of us who have the privilege of enjoying much more renewable energy? But this was done. The Agency agreed that because of the changes we made in the Regulation and lay ahead at the end of the 2013 season, we may be talking about a 2% increase in housing in general when designers, architects, and others are attacked by drawing up walls, space, etc. ... hadoutofhim. I agree with it. paritaprevir Hörður Ríkharðsson's son said earlier when we were talking about milk, because it always applies, even though it's not talking about milk and even less beer, it is important that the facts make the basis for what we say. It is important to maintain deep research and discussion in all that is said. Therefore, I have been disappointed that many of the rural communities and now the Group of the United States agree with these views. I hoped to do that in my verbal exchange with what I said. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason that it was about details, some points smaller, and perhaps more about changing space, or not so stiff as to be here, rooms here, kitchen kitchens here, etc., but sadly it made no mistake. A senator felt that he should weigh the interests of those who need increased access to public interests, as he put it. I was disappointed, but I believe that, a respectable president, it is important to maintain these views in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u25	V.E.G. President. I wondered if I should give an answer to a talk. The senator here speaks of our proposals as well as our officers for the campaign of housing at an manageable rate. I'm going to do it, but only in a general way, which is involved in this by law. You're right about what you're doing. A senator has studied a building order made in her time as environmental minister during the last term. You see, I was one of those who came out, including at the General Assembly, and criticize some of the things that were then in the process of making changes. I make it clear that there were compensations, adjustments that enabled me to feel backwards and even better. I'll take one example in this short answer. In the original motions, and now I'm trying to recall all that architects and designers said to a man when they arrived at a meeting o.f., stood among other things to increase isolation from 8 inches to 12 inches per house. I know of people who were about to start building at the time, and if they had come under it, the cost of building would have increased considerably, but the calculated cost of saving the house was measured for tens of years, that it would come back in a very long time. Of course, it's all mixed up here. A senator said that we live in Iceland with enough and very cheap energy to use our home. This is one of the critical examples then, and I was among them. I do not hesitate to argue that the discussion back then made it a suggestion. This would surely have increased the cost of building if people had been stressing this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u26	President. The last thing I am to avoid is the discussion that arose at the council. In fact, I remember that it wasn't common for a person to get an unprepared inquiry from a member of the government department but why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller didn't spare me anything about building regulations. We had a word exchange here, at least once if not twice, about these exact matters, and I agree that it was important to have a discussion about the approach involved in isolation. It was important that this involved the one outstanding factor that caused the greatest increase in construction costs. As soon as that change was taken back, a great deal had happened. The discussion today is as if nothing has changed since the first issue of Regulation in the last terms. That's what I want to say and act. Like what? A senator says, and I wholeheartedly agree with the discussion, but in the same way, I would like to maintain the levels of access. I allow myself to agree with the words of the director of the Competent Agency who attended a meeting that was being discussed. They were worried that there were too much demand for access, and he said in a somewhat ironic tone: I ask people to calm down, there are still plenty of places in Iceland where people will never ever get into a wheelchair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u27	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer and that we would again take a quick discussion about the building order, as we did. It is true that it will have been in a special discussion that the person standing here made up a bit of the subject and would ride a little steep in it, as I do now, and make my way of doing it. I appreciate that answer from the highest. A former minister in solitary confinement was an example in which things had gone too far. Of course, it can be a real pain in our discussion of the very things we want to do and take care of, i.e. about the availability of disabled and only adult people, motorists, they don't have to be disabled. Without going to go down on it or to talk about it, I say for my part that I feel -- I make clear that I didn't prepare or recall it, but I've often taken an example in the speaker of an apartment that one comes to the outside of Scandinavia, small and thin apartments, thinking as the first apartment for a young couple to start, or because of individuals. They're clearly missing their place in this market. My information from architects and other designers is that it is now part of a building program where we went beyond our neighbors, which makes building so little apartments difficult. Whether there were any storage laws inside the apartment or what it was, I don't remember exactly, but this I wanted to say because it's where I think it was too far gone. But I'll also admit that I haven't studied in the past month or last year what changes have been made in that subject because experience often shows that things can be changed when it comes to politics. When designers and market workers are included, not only government officials, they sometimes go too far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u28	President. Just so that the work was done, not just with officials, but with those best - known in the hidden places. It is true, though, that at the end of this process, there were strong criticisms from architects and designers. This may have been primarily because they thought the Regulation was somewhat old - fashioned, i.e. There was expected for a couple's room, room, bathroom, kitchen, etc. but perhaps not the flexibility that modern times ask and ask for, especially in the matter of marriage, other and young people. A senator talks about it. Or they may live together with fellow students, or they may be a completely different species of living together. But the traditional nuclear family may be the basic unit on which the idea of building is based. They were useful tips, and they focused on this professional conversation with architects and designers, that they were fully capable of making room available, so that we would not subsist on quality, sound, or other factors. It was important to give them much more flexibility than was in the original issue of the Regulation. In accordance with the current Regulation or as it was from my own hand, you can build very small apartments, I think of a 42 square foot [42 square m] apartment. I say like what? Senator that I'm not quite ready to trace the details, but let's go over it. In addition, the building program has a specific chapter on student apartments because we thought they were a type of apartment for a specific lifetime, and therefore it could be reasoned that it had special rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u29	V.E.G. President. Here is a proposal for a synoptic resolution from a council of officers at the General Assembly, which is no less than a series of emergency measures to ensure that housing is affordable. There are big, great, ambitious plans made. Another key issue is the proposal, as it were, of the General Assembly. The rest is about 300 yards. K. The minimum wage, as we know, that would be valid from May 1, i.e. Like the workers in the labour market, but the government is going to cheat on the elderly and the micropunchers and take them through the months that go by this year. So that's a suggestion number two, and she's on the roof. 15, 15. Here's the list of nine what we want to be specifically looked at, as the proposal says, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government from taking action to act as quickly as possible to the serious conditions that arise in a housing market where security is not guaranteed. In fact, most of this applies to the capital area, but I would also like to think that this applies in many places in the country as well. Fortunately, there are several areas in which there is still no housing and which need to be addressed, so I say in my own part due to an anti-sponsored response earlier that this suggestion takes into account the needs of the capital area and the national capital area. Twice I've listened to the mayor of Reykjavík, Dagur Eggertsson Elegtsson, explain the direction of the more part of Reykjavík on housing, and I'm glad to be able to say that I'm very pleased with the direction it presents. She's very ambitious, and hopefully she'll succeed. There are some things that have been accomplished, one that remains, but there are some very ambitious plans. However, they depend on the establishment of the State, such as our list of articles in this synonym, e.g. to provide stock companies, coffee cheaper weights, stock prices, and so we can imagine that the state on land in many parts of the country gives them to a partner who wants to build less expensive stores for sale or rent without having some super marketing plan, but of course, natural yielding of his money. As one might say, and I think it was attributed to the late Jóhannes of Bronson, there is a very big difference between profit and greed. What I find most interesting about Reykjavík's plans are the planning of a construction site where construction contractors can build small apartments, 50 square feet [50 square meters] in apartments, 100 square feet [100 square meters] in apartments, or something in between. This is the most missing apartment size on the market. Young people who are coming out of school, their family are not growing with children, why should they not just rent small and cheap homes, such as those who go to Scandinavia, rent small, and networked living quarters? This, of course, makes the construction cost much less difficult, so buying becomes much easier if you go into it. If we take an example of a 50 - square - foot [50 square m] apartment and say that the cost of building is about 300 of you, we are impressed. K. on a square foot today. It's probably a little higher, 51⁄2-10% higher, maybe it's up to 320 you. K. ... butI'll let myself work out of 300 you. K. on square meters. That's a 50 square foot apartment in a building of 15 million. K. If people plan to buy it, they have to, based on this 20% rule, not to lean forward to 3 billion. K. Realize that a person needs a substantial amount of pay in order to have 3 billion. K. in payment, but this suggestion also discusses additional loans to split it. It also speaks of housing savings, which I think is very important to promote and record. However, back to the size of the building blocks such as the city of Reykjavík, where there are more than 100 square feet [100 square m] in apartments and a child in the family could move to an apartment but continue this low price. Of course, rent prices will be calculated from the cost of construction and natural interest, but there is a small difference or whether renting up to 150 square feet [150 square meters] from the same formula would cost 45 million. K. It's just a magical thing, and that's what I find so exciting in the plans of more part of Reykjavík to build now. Then I reiterate that I hope that Reykjavíkurburg can maintain this programme, and I say that because I believe and trust in it, I hope that the government will make its suggestion that it will make this easier. Even if I talk about Reykjavíkurburg, I can go through this to a number of places in the country. There is also a problem where very old homes can be rented and too large, which are more expensive to burn, etc. If we enable construction workers to build smaller stores and to have a more varied choice for buyers or tenants, it will work immediately. This is the most important project I think of in housing matters, no matter where the country is. Here in this body of Congress proposals, we also discuss growth improvements and housing improvements that we feel need to expand and improve. I'm going to make a special visit to what they say here on the bounds of housing bills that give tax discounts to buy at the first apartment or residence rights. A respectable president now seated on the platform may not know the old brands of old. I know them, taking it as an example that I'm a little older than a sitting chief. President, the one who was president before being replaced, no doubt knew the brands. You see, I started working relatively early, a young man, but, fortunately, there were no limits to when you could start working, and I remember when you opened the pay layer in which you would then have money in, both shearing and chink, that there were also the brands that you carefully taped into a book, provided and then got to take out when you bought your first apartment. Although this is not to be done with brands or stamps, we should record it, and I do not hesitate to say that we should meet those who want to provide and save, because it is always best to deposit on bank accounts, that when the money is taken out to buy at the first apartment, it should be completely tax-free. This is the cheapest way to meet young people in the country and encourage saving, encouraging people not to spend all their resources. It may be good to store, but it takes abundant fruitage to make it possible for people to contribute when they buy. A respectable president. As I said before, I think these plans are good. They can be exported to other locations in the country, and I mention recent reports that have been in Castry and elsewhere, interviews with young people who are insecurity of having rent houses and renting and raising, and they give up on rent and have to go out. I'm just gonna say one thing. Imagine what happens to the children of these families who may be in some neighborhood, into nursery and/or elementary school, and suddenly you have to move, move because they can't afford it, try to get into some other neighborhood, and your children may have to get used to it, and new schools, new partners, etc. It is an extraordinary injustice that the government is working against in every civilized society and society that we prefer to compare with and have a powerful housing system, housing partnerships, or what it is called, perhaps creditors available to young people, to rent to those who are unable or unwilling to buy an apartment for themselves. [[The president calls.]] I hope that we at the Council will be left alone for a year ago to make a wide deal of peace among all groups of these ideas because I think it is possible to do so in this very important interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u30	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller before his speech, and I want to agree with him that it is very important to take emergency measures to ensure that all facilities are affordable and for me, I fully agree with the fundamentals. There may be some of the finest noodles I need to keep in mind that I'm coming up in this counter-sponsored speech. What I want to ask you is why. A senator comes out of his mouth and mouth. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir. You see, I liked it a little bit. A senator said that access issues not only meant access to disabled people or motorists but also that the availability of adults or older ones has become apparent. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council to see if this is not a factor we need to keep ever more in mind when planning or building apartments. We see that the national demographics are changing, the elderly are increasing, and we have had a lot of discussions about the construction and cost of nursing homes. So I would like to ask, Is it not wise to think of these matters through before starting to build and consider the access issues, since we all know that it is even more expensive to change when living apartments are built? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this answer, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir and to address some of the points I made here as a subject. I thank her for agreeing with us that this is an emergency. It's just that the market and implementation of the collapse of the banking system and the economic breakdowns were in place. Not much was built and a hole was formed, and it's coming into our head now. Mr. President. As I said at the end of my talk, I do not hesitate to argue that one of the most important matters here at the General of this fall council is trying to form a solidarity of every category on the major housing procedures. I think it's possible if you put yourself through it. Hv. A senator made the subject of my exchange of opinions and the highest. The former environmental minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for building rules, such a memory of moderns as she called it, and what I said about the need for people to remember that the nation is getting older and that elderly need to be taken into account. There's something to consider, and I think a lot of what was done in the building order will meet this. But there were things like I had here a word exchange about what. A senator earlier, like the increased demand for isolation of apartments, made this discussion begin. As a result, there were other developments, and I agree with them. A senator said earlier. I was not prepared to recall what else the designers made comments to, but I believe that it is always best for those who work and design and organize apartments and apartments etc. I have to work on the Regulation as well, but I can find it better in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u32	Mr. President. I think it's really important that the bioavailability issues are always discussed, and we in politics keep them up. The situation in disabled human rights is simply the means by which they have to rely on the fact that we in this room are their advocates and that we constantly remind them that there are things that need to be maintained and that include the bioavailability issues. Of course, the same applies to older people. That's one of the things I've done to me that I'm going to do here while I'm at the General. This needs to be internalized into general awareness because it occurs all too often that the bioavailability issues will become follow-up and then things will be so much more expensive than if considered at baseline. Of course, there are all the professionals, architects, and those who are supposed to have this in mind. We also need to remind them of it, and this is what I think we can do together as a community. Finally, one thing I can't find in this list of points. That's about how. A senator would be pleased to take action to strengthen already active tenants who are not motivated by profit, but on some sort of social basis, such as the student's Social Institute or Braun, the Housekeeping Fund, whether it should also be thought of as a strength to allow them to continue building houses for their customers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u33	V.E.G. President. Hv. In his concluding remarks, a senator wrote about what I may not have done enough to talk about in my talk earlier, to meet the groups that are on the market today, and to care for certain groups. We can name the School Department of Social Services and the Quantum Association with their magnificent houses these communities have and rent out at a fair price without having to figure out something intense. Social clubs are called Reykjavík, if I've just noticed, Bústi and some others. This action really needs to be that way because my lord is an animal, I am not a spokesman for the state's building of some houses or houses or things like that to go to the lease, except perhaps a camp loan agency, perhaps a project for a camp loan fund. You see, I don't think there's too much work at a camp loan today, but lots of money because people look for loans. Of course, if it is noted that biofuels are immediately designed, it is the best way to do so and should not be taken into account in 2015. [[Up front.]] Sadly, though, this is still happening, and it is just a trip to the local community to accept such a home. A respectable president. May I just remind you of one thing, I don't know how many years since rural communities started flogging sidewalks, so these giant sidewalkmen were not made at the corners of the road. This was done for the benefit of the disabled, was it not, but are not all who enjoy it? Cars, baby carriages, and we who believe we are are, we can still walk freely. It's much better than walking by those toads. The fact that all these factors are being cared for must be handled more effectively by the prototype.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u34	V.E.G. President. We'll talk to the Senate about a proposal. paritaprevir Páll the son of Árnason and the other members of the United States. The proposal for emergency measures to ensure that housing is manageable. Once again, we'll make a suggestion on this matter. This is the third winter of the season, and it has not happened in housing. In the female paper today, you can read this article by Guðmundur Guðmundsson, who says about government housing policy that the emperor is not wearing any clothes. It shows that, in fact, there was no real step from collapse to change the composition of the housing market from an overwhelming proportion of property to an increase in rent - size ratio. Indeed, a lot of tenants have grown in Iceland. In fact, we still do not have sufficient statistics about the housing market, but in the country, about 30% of homes are rented, i.e. on markets that are not clear enough to establish an individual market. Pétur's renting Páll for some month is a matter of a lot, as the Guðmundsson's article says. Thus, those in a rented market in Iceland do not have real security. We worked very hard in modeling housing policy in the last term together with other political parties and in consultation with the European Union, which is far more visible in the area of housing than the state of state. Farming, such as the capital of Reykjavík, has taken up and done construction work in harmony with the Union's policies. This policy involves an increase in commercial rent-offs, which are camped within a real - estate partner working in the interests of the public. This must be the goal, but it is difficult to achieve such a system change. It requires money from the government and from public funds from the local communities as well. So I have to talk about it here, chief. President, that it is heavier than tears, notices that after more than two years of additional work in the present government, where housing policy has been kept up and down and down and down but shown at the same conclusion, it is the one that should be placed in the rented part of the market this year 1.5 billion, which is, in fact, not additional funds, since it replaces the funds that have been offered to subsidise the growth of social housing. The current government is saying: The funding of the social system is to be changed, but it is not supposed to be a real option for a home in Iceland about whether they're buying or renting. In our nine - number suggestions, five of them are especially in the tenet. I'm going through them a few words. On the one hand, the induction of housing will result in comparable support for those who have and those who rent. V.E.G. The Minister of Homes for Eygló Harðardóttir gave us a bill for housing benefits, which would not have had to change a name, since it is only the rent - rent system with a slight change. What a fine price it is to pay unless there are individuals who contribute far to the initial contribution! This is a technical issue, but by reducing the costs for calculating benefits, these contributes to the number of homes and so on, saving Ministers, and thus adding less to the system than was actually put in place. The financial office's comments on this matter were on the way that the bill actually did not reach its targets, which were especially supporting the wealthier housing markets, we're talking about people with mediums and belows. I'm afraid the budget office is right because the sponsors were changed. Of course, what would be a first step - you do not have to take an entire bill through the council - simply raising your rent. This can be done as a compromise to meet rent - rent homes. They haven't gone up since last term, and that's unacceptable. They were to be raised by 400 million this year. K. anything as counterimprovement in induction of increase in food tax, which was betrayed. They never went up. That counterimportant action was never to be carried out. It was fake. This, of course, is what needs to be done. In order to obtain a rent price, there is a need to increase the supply of rent houses. We want the ruined property of the State to be served in rural areas to build at my rented apartments. In the 7th suggestion, we would like to facilitate the purchase of social housing by changing the rules for the debt of rural society so that social dwellings do not fall under that debt, as it can be said that it is a prerequisite, since local dwellers are easily sold and therefore should be relatively free of money, and it is preconceivable to buy and raise housing from that rule. Then we want the rural communities building houses to get subsidies on interest money, regardless of where the loan comes from, and we want it to develop a real build-up framework for long-term management, rent companies on the public market for those who want it, and it won't become a social system, as suggested in the developers' ideals. The secretary of the house, rather, will be a general system. Of course, there is the basis for having a real estate market that big and stationed companies are expelled without a profit plan but with the goal of running and renting houses for citizens in the country. It is known that for modern society, rent - rent is a reasonable way. It takes flexibility in society so that people can live in rented homes. Young people who have completed their studies and who may be on the way somewhere else to further study but who want to stay home and work for two or three years may then be on the rent. Similarly, a foreign labor force needs to be able to live in security, whether people are here a year or five or come here to live. Besides, it's supposed to be a normal choice for people not to have to put all their money in concrete. It seems that it is difficult for governments to step into the 21st century and recognize that specialism has passed away as the only option for home in Iceland. These suggestions aim to take us off that path and create a real market. I think that experience has shown us that this government is not about to do anything. I encourage them to be supportive of these suggestions, and we try to move on in their housing activities in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u35	A respectable president. I just want to come up here for a second about it. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir was talking about her views on the change of building order. I'd like to read a few of the things that are in a building order that I think are an enormous challenge when we are going to deal with the great challenges of today's housing market, especially for this large group of young people. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there are two groups, young people, and older people who want to reduce their size and live in a smaller home so that they can move into the same market. A building rule says that the kitchen can be only about seven square feet [7 square meters], although there is plenty of kitchen jars in the apartment, an apartment less than 50 square feet [50 square meters]. Special storage should be more than 6 square metres in an apartment over 80 square metres. Each apartment should have a bathroom that is not less than 5 square metres, and each apartment should have at least one room greater than 18 square metres. Each apartment is to have a baked and space for a washing machine. What housing area should follow for children on land. It's just some of the things that obviously call for high costs and an apartment that should be small or medium-sized, you ask yourself, " Is it really necessary for one room of 18 square feet? ' Several of these things certainly contribute to the cost. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament, whether of the Continent's ideas, is presented in some konkoret proposals for what to do, e.g. convert to structural rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u36	V.E.G. President. Since the release of this structure, it has been for constant discussion. I may not be one of the members of the United States of America who has any desire to reexamine a building order. I'm not an expert on construction regulations, but I know that according to the current building order, the new one, there is a chance of building less apartments than there was in a previous building. Maybe I'm gonna let go a little bit of a little bit when I say that Iceland's housing problem isn't in the interest of building rules. If we live in one of the world's richest societys in the coldness of the world and spend most of our homes in the large part of the year, we can not build adequate housing afforded by ordinary people to live in them, they do not tell us that building order is the problem but that it is a serious economic gullible. One of them is the Icelandic currency. Hv. A senator has to see through his fingers to this answer, but I'm just not the person who's down to figure out what the space is supposed to be big, 18 square feet is, of course, pretty big, but people are big in their homes. [[The president calls.]] We do not live in Granada or Rome.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u37	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I didn't expect her to be an expert on a building policy, but what I'd like to say is that many of these ideas I'd be referring to are similar to what I've read in the bills I've read from the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. We are here with a lot of high - sounding ideas, all of which are very good, but there is something that inhibits. Maybe it's just that bit of talk that the senator mentioned about the financial cost of building, that's the big, serious picture, and that makes these plans not come true because I don't think they don't want it to be. What we also see is that if all of these plans are to be carried out, there is a tremendous labor force to do this work. We need professionals, carpenters, plumbers, all kinds of industrialized people we don't have ourselves, and they're also a big problem. I say there's some legal issue and one part of it is a building policy, but it's also this economic crisis. It is that we are few, and we do not have the advantage of choosing the right option now to engage in what needs to be done in conjunction with the hotel structure and other activities. There is also an enormous part of this problem, for especially in the capital area, many of the apartments that would otherwise be rented in public rent to tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u38	V.E.G. President. Yes, that's right, ahead of you is a workforce. A labour agency points out that in the coming years, we will have to import a lot of work force, and then we can imagine the situation that we were in before the collapse of the Great Good News when thousands of people came to work and many of them lived in terrible circumstances. I think there's every reason for us to fear that this situation can come back as soon as we can be glad that labor can come here when it's necessary. Of course, no matter what the cause, we should treat everyone well. I wanted to say about the apartments that these are not very high - sounding ideas. These are just thoughts of having a comfortable storage place or of having room for daily activities, where the walls do not become too tight for people in everyday life. I think it's very easy to argue why we should set those criteria. A student's Social Services, one of the most progressive real estate companies in Iceland, has built a whole lot of fancy small apartments and I don't know if they'll ever get an exception from a building rule, but they've been able to do a lot of things in this capacity. I also know that they have made several comments. I think we need to play this game so that we're guided by reason, but we're supposed to take pride in it and we're supposed to expect everyone to have a place in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingga Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir for her speech, she agrees that certain groups of people, such as earners or young people, want to cover their heads with a complete mind. They need action to help, and I want to agree with it. A senator that even though we're having a deeper discussion about this later in the winter, I have certain doubts, so I don't take any deeper in the years, about the avenues to the highest. The social and housing minister has suggested the prime signs submitted to the last council. Still, I look forward to that discussion, and it will be very important. It may be a bit harsh to the General Assembly that there are only two people who can take part in an argument from time to time, for I would have so much wanted to blend in with the discussion that was before and about the building order and the access issues that I would not be tired of talking about. We are deeply concerned about the need to build accessible homes from scratch. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator and an Chairman of what? The welfare committee whether we have an ally for each other. The head of the welfare committee when it comes to remembering and maintaining these views.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a most loving answer. Yes, she certainly has an ally in the head of the welfare committee in terms of the bioavailability issues. I told them last year that I may not be one of my classes who put the most emphasis on the 6th, a review of a building rule. It has been revised since its appointment and has been tailored to any of the neglects that all agreed to be unnecessary requirements and that would result in overexploitation of construction costs. But all of us know from our everyday lives the importance of access. A bioavailability isn't just about motorized people, though it was a valid reason, but, of course, a lot of people in Iceland live with motor impairment and it's important what the access is and if you're in a wheelchair, you don't have to be able to get in your home. We want these people to be able to associate with others as well as even come into other people's homes, if we allow ourselves to be so radical, we might consider them human rights in modern travel. But in Iceland there are also 40 thousand senior citizens, many of them in good health, but that group will just increase. Now that the '68 generation is getting more old in age, this will be a much higher percentage, we become older people, and they are relevant to bioavailability, and they are also important for young families with a lot of small children, then simple availability of daily activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is that he feels that he is aggressive approach. A senator brought in the bioavailability issue of enormous importance. It is precisely so that access to one's own home is not just a matter of having access to one's own home but of being able to visit each other, whether to parents, children, or friends. Everyone wants to be able to come to a party, and everybody wants to go to the bathroom at the party. It's just about such simple and everyday things for us that most of us can make it, but unfortunately, it's not, as shown in the discussion just earlier today, where someone hadn't. A senator noted that there is no shortage of inaccessible housing. Unfortunately, it is only to this day that housing is being built where the bioavailability issues are actually messed up in some way. So I think that it's so important that we talk about it and we control it, that everywhere we can remind us of it, we'll pick it up, and we'll take care of it so that all those who come to build or design the building house, whether it's the architect or the engineer or whatever it is, will be reminded of it. It is vital that I do so, and therefore I loved to hear that I have in this great battle my allies in the foreman. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to tell a little story for this reason. I lived in Sweden for a long time, in the happy state of the socipheral Eshcota, and I hope it's on the way again. Its availability is widely available, and it has been considered longer than elsewhere. There I was visited by a little girl from the family who was raised in Paris. What caught her attention, and she said to me at some point: There are so many disabled people here in Sweden. Then I pointed out that there are now simply no more disabled people in Sweden than there are in Paris, but it would be easier for them to participate in public access activities. Bioavailability is a matter of community involvement. It is a matter of participation for all who, to some extent, have to travel in a more favorable way than we, who can use two as quickly as possible. That's what matters. We have to have a vision, for the population in Iceland will increase the number of people who need more access in order to participate in society. When you take away people from your social activities in an easy way and prevent them from activities of daily life, they also reduce the health and strength of people, and we become a larger group of elderly ones who will thus be helpless. No one, either individuals or others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u43	Mr. President. We'll discuss a fine case here, a proposal for a hearing of emergency operations to ensure that all facilities are affordable. It's the Group of the United Nations with her chairman in the lead, okay? paritaprevir Páll the Árnason of Arna, who brings up this matter. It is very good to have this discussion about the facilities that have been burned on the people of this country for a long time; expectations have been made, based on the way the secretary of housing, the Supreme Minister. Social Affairs Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir has talked about something going on in this regard. The lack of expression in this series is disappointing. The budget bill refers to stock contributions and rent support. It refers to only 400 social apartments, but it is known that at least That's twice as much. The next three years are expected to include 2.6 billion for housing. There are not large sums of money in this total market, and there is no money in the general rent market, but there is expected to be a lower tax rate for renters without knowing how it will return to tenants. The budget bill has no support for the construction of apartments in the country where housing is scarce; employment life has taken over, but individuals and rural society have not yet supported themselves. As I mentioned earlier, in answer to what. paritaprevir Since Páll Árnason's years are spent, as soon as the real-estate assessment is done, I feel very strongly about strengthening apartment buildings where market planning is not available, as is the case here in the capital area. I agree with what is stated in this council resolution to ensure that tenants will need comparable support and will be given to those who have their own home with interest. In this discussion, I would like to look to the country and to the circumstances in which people live in the country. It is now that people who were thinking about living in the country have left because of lack of housing. The people who have been interested in buying older homes in smaller parts of the country have had little access to money. The private banks we have here have not trusted in taking mortgages outside the so-called market areas, and the same is true of our bank, the Bank of America, owned by the state; neither has he wanted to mortgage a number of places in the country. It is very difficult to get funds to buy older housing in many of these places. Actually, it has become a vicious circle. What about the government's plans to split up a camp loan fund? What is the result when people in the country are able to finance housing? It is certainly of great concern that people do not have access to money to buy older housing in these scattered areas across the country. It's just impossible. Here in the capital area, we know that much of the house - to - house care is being rented for tourists. Those who are looking for accommodations have been deeply affected. There's been an explosion in rent markets, and housing is very difficult for people to obtain. Sadly, you always hear more and more of young people who decide to leave the country because they do not see the safety and future of the facility. What a concern it is when young people, whether educated or uneducated, move abroad because of the great uncertainty of rent - rent markets and because of the small potential for young people to buy their first apartments! It is this way today that those who are unable to make 20% of apartment prices, even though there are apartments that may cost about 20 million. K. They can hardly afford less money than that in the capital area, although the environment is completely out of the country; either these people are on their parents, they borrow and repay them themselves, or they are in trouble, and they have to pay the same amount of money as they would have had to pay if the person acquired similar housing. Of course, this does not go anywhere. I would also like to draw attention to the changes that have been made in the high school system, that people over 25 years of age do not have access to book studies in high school, as well as to housing issues. It is that young people in the country - who can no longer study after they are 25 years old - have not finished a student's test - in a private school and are here in the capital area for some reason. There's no place to live unless there's a high price. Then you ask yourself, " Why don't the state invite them to boarding homes, in a similar way, to where they used to be in high schools out of the country, e.g. in a smoke hole, on Lake Lavain, and in other places, in Rhojanes and in Núpi, for those young people who do not have much money and who think to go back to their homes, who don't have the right to rent in the capital area, and who are, in fact, completely banned? Granted, there is a great deal of effort to make with the land's housing arrangements. The present government has taken too long in its means to offer practical suggestions and provide financial support. I think this party's mixed-up council proposal is a very good entry into that matter. This refers to emergency operations, and they are certainly needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u44	Mr. President. There's been a fine discussion on some aspects of housing in connection with this proposal for action as an arrangement for emergency action to ensure that all facilities at the manageable markets brought by members of the United States Congress are available. Surely, there is reason to take up the accommodations here and discuss them. We may have had too little experience in this regard since collapse, and a special concern that despite much committee work and suggestions in 2011-2013, these materials have not yet been exposed to any changes in the real estate market, potential to build, rent, or pay off housing. The actions of the present government have returned to the past, as shown by the famous so - called correction of debt, but less has been done to cope with the situation as it is in the real estate market today. Of course, most of the figures listed here have been discussed and examined in recent years. A lot of work has come to the fore, e.g. There are new integrated housing reform systems in which tenants and those who are trying to own their housing are more like it, but we are still waiting for the development of plans for that improvement. There is also a suggestion that you will be spared the income of individuals'income due to renting one apartment. It is in itself not a crazy idea to draw the line there. Now, the current government has proclaimed a step toward changing the population discount for rent rent income as a basis for financing tax from 70% to 50%. Of course, it is a step in the same direction. I can agree with the ideological difference between renting one apartment, saying that people have an apartment in a bigger house or are temporarily away and they want to rent one apartment, and then another member of the business of renting out houses on a large scale. It's a completely different matter, and it would be out of my opinion to treat the capital interests of such parties, lawyers or such persons, in ways that are not generally going to work, although it means the same as others, that they would only be 70% or the next year 50% stock to pay a fiscal tax. A third figure is out to take action in particular for those who are buying an apartment or in the first place. Of course, I think it's part of man's natural nature to look very hard, how he turns people's streets into the first-pass housing market. It may also be necessary to consider an equal situation between those who are simply moving away from home and rent for the first time because this is a big step for young people who have lived in homes and are on a full journey through school, trying to earn money during the summer or even in the field of study, and perhaps to get only a little while together as we may know many people who live without charge in homes. It is a very large barrier to try to enter the rented market for e.g. A young couple. Why should they not be able to meet the cost of living as if of others who were buying homes or apartments? There I think we would have done better and long before to support young people as they take this first big step. It is not quite new under the sun, as in so many other countries, there have been reviews of the brands and measures that were somehow diluted out and destroyed by us. In fact, it's quite adventurous when you review in your mind how we went backwards in these subjects in one field after another in years. It was nothing more than a new liberalism and right humanism when they convinced themselves that the market would solve all these matters and put down a social section of the housing system, the construction fund of workers, and the deportation was a special support or tax returns for young people to prepare for their living arrangements and so forth. Me and the Icelanders are naturally burned with bitter experiences because of our mistakes in this group, and it's not just connected to the collapse and what happened there. It is enough to remind us of the 1980's and the failure of our times, the Sigtunns, and all that so that we have been late learning and improving our counsel on these topics. When you look at our fine Icelandic community, we usually do well in many areas, we have managed to build an excellent welfare and prosperity society, and we are proud of many of its factors, but the truth is, of course, one group of proverbs in which we have been extremely misinvolved, perhaps two, i.e. Economic, economic, economic, and housing, apartment affairs. Therefore, this group of subjects certainly deserves his attention. Just a few words about the building order that has actually been discussed here. I've been concerned about her discussions, and we were discussing yesterday with the elderly and with nurses who handled the elderly and the housing matters there very quickly. I must say, just as it is, I find it strange what this discussion has been given to me to be one - sided often in times where people have run down a new building order, felt it all to the fore, blamed it for all creations, and used it as a scapegoat and a scavenger. What is the condition of such a person? They're very small. They forget completely the other side, how important it is to design and build long - term housing that this is done in accordance with normal requirements, that housing is generally accessible to all. I can agree that if you live in a student apartment, you may be able to change from each of them to meet these requirements because you have a place for young people in school and, fortunately, the most large part of them, without any restraint or disability, is being moved out of your home. Of course, there must be a sufficient amount of apartments available in that facility, too, so that disabled students are not discriminated against in this regard. But when it's based on a public market, whether it's an apartment for reselling or a condo for rent, we have to think long into the future. Let us bear in mind the fact that the elderly in Iceland today are over 40 thousand, 67 years of age and older. They are about 12% of the people today, becoming 50,000 thousand and 70 thousand and 80 thousand and 100 thousand before a very long time passes. They go to 15% and 20%, and then 20% or more of the population of the country, compared to predicted demographic development and this time is not creatively far ahead. Now the so-called bababby boom-bond, if you may sophisticate here, a respectable president, I promise I won't do it again, i.e. the great baby generation, getting to retirement age, some of the largest years of Iceland's history. It will increase rapidly in that group, and it is extremely important that we keep it in mind and also the person who deals with some type of disability and housing designed to be available and acceptable to everyone. Otherwise, what situation arises? It will then be much more tighter in the market with the facilities thus designed. What are we talking about today? For example, we will discuss the blocks built three and four stories without an elevator. Isn't that a problem today? Yeah. Is it not possible to adjust the size of a facility to a Swedish model by building an elevator shaft on the outside because it does not meet the demands of time? So, today, in 2015, we are going to give a marvelous discount on the fact that our house meets today's demands, let alone the future? To be honest, I don't know how a man gets so carried away sometimes because he's getting ahead of himself. It was noted that these requirements may be calculated to be an additional 152% of the construction cost. I think it's incredibly small, and I'm sure it's a big deal to do that. I was going to step aside only from housing in the country, but my time is up for some strange reason, so I'm entitled to discuss my situation there, but it certainly deserves a discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u45	A respectable president. As we have seen, we'll discuss a proposal for a hearing on the granting of play-schools and birthorlofs, which is proposed by the Council of the Left Motion of Green. The proposal is a continuation of a previous proposal when the members of the Left Motion ◯ Green Proposition proposed both in 142 and in 143 C.E. the Court's Council on Law School after delivery, and the wonders and wonders were performed in the majority of Iceland's budgets that the proposal was adopted at 143th Council as a Senate resolution of No. 5/143. Consuming it included the appointment of a group who had the responsibility of evaluating the benefits of attending a nursery at the end of the maternity school, i.e. At the age of 12 months, such as the birthmark was then performed and still remains. In May 2015, the staff returned a fine report called The Report of the Service Group on Law School Reconclusion after delivery. In fact, it is hardly clear that the results of the work group report were that it was very important for children to have access to preschooled school, and that it was in a clear way for each child regardless of where he lived, whether being a preschooler or not was possible to be a preschooler, i.e. the importance of equalizing the bioavailability. This report also showed that it was considered to be an unambiguous national benefit for children to be able to attend preschool. In 2013, there were 257 preschools in the country, and they had within their walls at that point about 20 of you. children. In fact, the vast majority of children each year who have reached a two - year - old, until elementary school, go to school until basic school, as it were, for the most well - educated children until basic school. The situation is now that the end of the maternity school and until the school comes, we really have an unsolved gap. It has been in the discussion for a long time that this interval is unwieldy, and parents have been saving this period in various ways, by switching, by attending a day - to - day service of parents, whom some rural communities offer or have within their own ranks. There are some child - playing schools and some private schools that receive children very young but that have not yet been a whole system that has been accepted by children after the completion of maternity vacations in order to be acceptable. A quoted report in May 2015 is excellent in many ways and is very well aware of these issues. It presents a very strong view of those coming, i.e. Both the academic authorities and the community, that it is time to take the next steps in these areas. Of course, the will alone is not enough, and there are three specific subjects that need to be handled. First, the cost. Second, the need for housing varies from country to country. Third, there is a teaching school teacher who is now a part of the program. If we begin by referring to the first item in the report as a subject, if I allow myself to call it that, at any given time, it is appropriate to mention in this discussion that on the part of the left movement a ◯ green supply has been viewed as being so since the formation of the party - the panel at any given time has presented a number of cases, inquiries and initiatives, in the subject that the level of the nursery was free of charge. We also have at a level of government to discuss the importance of this, that it was the first level, and that all children could enjoy it regardless of the economy. When at the 130th legislature, a synopsis proposal was presented that the school be free of charge. It was not approved as we may be aware, but for the present time, the overall contribution of the guardians of children, if the situation in the whole country, is taken by an average of 18%, i.e. Parents pay about 18%, but the community or the answer is 82 percent. Of course, running the school has high costs and costs, but we believe that the benefits of more powerful, professional, and strong play - school activities are quite desirable. In the proposal as we presented it in 2013 and, indeed, as we present it, we expect the future acting school to be free of charge. Of course, it is clear that this has brought us to the complex and complex interaction between countries and rural society in terms of society. We've discussed the issues here under various subscriptions, we've discussed them in terms of the presence of the rural society to the possibility of earnings associated with travel services and the building of popular tourist attractions. It is fun to remember the transfer of projects related to the disabled, we can talk about issues that have been discussed in the matter of the music school, or just the transfer of the elementary school in its time and financial resources, and later doubts that the funds were satisfactory in relation to the requirements we have since made for the elementary school. That was first of all. Our goal is that the school is free basic services, and we feel that it is actually worth considering that in 2015 we need a special protection that the elementary school is free of charge. Sadly, there are considerable expenses that the family needs to make for high school. There are paper, pens, pastries, folders, and various items in addition to school meals that should also be part of a conditional service. There's a lot of work ahead of us as far as we are concerned with our nursery education. It is the only place to pause is to point to an ideal nursery teacher and the importance of specifically encouraging young people to study preschool. Then you might wonder, " Is it possible to use a temporary special program through the Icelandic loan fund or something to stimulate young people to study preschool? ' I've been here primarily at the nursery school, but in our opinion it is important that a child's nursery can begin when a parent's maternity ends so that it never breaks down. In fact, it is the subject of the European Commission if the decision must be made to implement this policy of the Generals. In the Senate arrangement we set here for discussion, we are talking about the prolongation of the birthworm up to 18 months from the nine that it now lasts. However, the child's death at the age of 12 months may begin, i.e. There's some flexible understanding in there, and there's an update. Some find it a bit complicated to make such a statement, but we felt that putting it forward would not in themselves be harmful to the suggestion that this understanding might be flexible in terms of different circumstances and different traits of children. Children are people, and at least people who have all kinds of needs, vision, and will, but the same is suggested in the spirit of one who has been increasing in the discussion. Unfortunately, this debate may not have reached the Education Ministry under the Illugi Gunnarsson, which is about the importance of emphasising the flexibility between schools, i.e. that there will be room for room room, teaching method and the ideologies of the elementary school, and that will not be what is sometimes called literature, i.e. There'll always be text and lock pressure into the nursery, and maybe even less so the other way, that the kindergarten is not going to make the way into the elementary school. Basic and high school must be interconnected, as well as high school and college. Sadly, as is now being handled, divorce is made even more clearly, and now the last one with any probable rating at the beginning of high school that puts high school in a totally new place for middle school. I pray that people not attach too much of the numbers mentioned here, i.e. 18 months or 12, rather, we will look at this primarily with the view that there is room for compromise, but the suggestion may also be about their being sharper in the spirit of what is now. The proposal is three-way, and we expect seven members of a staff who continue to be led by the Ministry of Education and Culture as was about the work force based on the previous Congress hearing proposal, which also represents the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Ministry, Internal Affairs, the Union of Social Studies, the Association of Players, and then the Labour Office, held by the Department of Birth Orcation. The staff shall make three suggestions on, first of all, how to prolong the birthworm for 18 months and its funding, secondly, the cut off of the period of time given by rural society in order to extend the level of play so that the school of all rural society can invite all year-old children to a restricted school and to its funding. Third, what was pointed out in the report requires adjustment to strengthen the state of the nursery as the first class of education in the country. The authors noted that the role and work of the rural society were lacking in the legislation. The proposal assumes that the Minister will then submit the proposal of the Group for the Council no later than May 1, 2016. So here it is, in fact, a suggestion directly followed by a previous proposal that received professional cross - political support, and it has also received tremendous support from the rural communities. I think it's very important that we put an end to this. This proposal may be said to be related to the various other suggestions presented here, a proposal for improvement in housing, and many more. It's all about making Iceland a real choice for young families, for young people living, young people looking beyond Iceland as a possible place to take root, raise their children, learn, work and enjoy life. We need to dress up for a book about all the child-friendship equipment, including the playroom, the birthworm, the credit store of Icelandic students, housing, public transportation, and whatever else we have to do better in order for Iceland to be a really good and powerful tool for young people, especially for children. I would also like to mention, in this regard, a communication network that is an enormously important factor, especially in the country where they are in the lamoid area, and directly preventing certain areas in Iceland from being a practical alternative for young families to start their farming, let alone continue. President. I have completed a review of the Council's Conspiracy Directive and suggest that it be referred to by the General and Education Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u46	A respectable president. This is one of the big well - beings discussed here. In the past, we discussed emergency housing operations, and now we're talking about our council proposals, a platoon of left greens, where there is a problem. paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir is a 1st missionary, about the scholarship of the nursery and the birthmark. Indeed, it is a vital work that we need to do. This program has discussed reducing taxes, but then I would like to point out that such lawsuits, whether in the case of housing or in the strength of a nursery and birth vacation, are an insufficient amount of money. They turn to our young people, their future in Iceland, whether they choose to live here and raise their children in the welfare systems we have for them at one time or whether young people will compare, for example, with situations in the North countries and choose by their feet, if we can say so, and move abroad. It's just that it's no more complicated than that. Hence, it is sad that in the two years of its reign, this government has relinquished its income of over 40 billion. The task is a well - rounded problem, and it also brings us closer to the welfare community we want to offer and live in the North countries. I believe that extending your birth certificate to 18 months and that preschools can take over children at the age of 12 months is also a major equality issue. This is important to the parents'involvement in the workforce. We know that it is more often than not the woman who is at home who cannot continue her job if the child is not able to go to school. Of course, many parents do this in various ways, as do parents of day. Much insecurity and uncertainty are involved, none is available, and the cost is high. It is necessary to ensure good management and security for young children when it comes to caring for them. I'd like to call attention to one friend in this matter. Often, children of foreign origin who live in Iceland, have lived here, and intend to live here, are not in school. For example, grandmothers often come from abroad and look after these children in a home. They are not at school, and they do not enjoy the development and education available there, and they do not interact with other children who should, do less learning the language, and when it comes to school in elementary school, they are not in the same place as their peers. I believe this case needs to be examined much further, i.e. how children of foreign origin have been treated in Iceland and how the school system handles their needs. Therefore, as indicated in this suggestion, I feel very important to make legal adjustments that will strengthen the state of the nursery school as a primary school education system, confirming the duties of the local community to pursue preschool, and it is actually a pay - and - term school school that encourages the children of a foreign population to have the opportunity of going to a nursery school at the same age as other children. True, there are many aspects of this matter, and it is urgent that as a modern society, we face both parents and children in a manner that prolongs the birthmark and that we would expect children to be taken in at least 12 months of age. Granted, in many parts of the country, school schools have made it possible for children to be invited to a nursery school much younger than in the capital area. It is good that they are available, and fortunately, there are positive things to do about living in my settlements in the country. This is one of them. The high cost of this assignment is always pointed to. Of course, there are large sums of money, and as a nation we must do this in some way. I think it's reality, but I still want to say that there has to be a flow between nursery and elementary school, that it's offered that the oldest children in nurserys, five years old, get into elementary school sooner. Of course, this would happen on its own if we went into the legal adjustment to make the nursery the first level, and there would be a flow between them. It is said that if this is to be done, there will be so much increase in housing. I think there are also ways of making better use of elementary school, so maybe five - year - olds go to high school or high school. I think that makes it easier to flow in between. In several places out in the country, in my settlements, there are school and elementary school under the same roof. I'll mention, for example, spray Louis, but there are, of course, other places. A great meeting two weeks ago or so ago, we and I went to the Coastal Club of the United States, Aarneshrepp, where a beautiful school is fired. Everything is under the same roof and is exemplary in how it has been accomplished. This is certainly possible in many communities, although I am aware that in the capital area, housing would initially be returned. I believe, though, that it could be solved in cooperation between state and rural society. This is a big progress in my opinion, a lot of equality and welfare for us as a society, if we are to offer young children good equipment here in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u47	A respectable president. When you think back and review the evolutionary history of a school in Iceland, name, physics, and occupational changes that have occurred there, we'll see that high school has become a completely different institution than it was in the beginning. In today's world, everyone needs and wants to be in a job market and have an equal and clear opportunity to do so. In order to have children as well as to have a meaningful share in the workforce, it is necessary to be a secure organisation where there is a community reconciliation to meet all the possible conditions for reaching all to develop and educate. It's just how we look at it today, although for a long time the view was that it was a bad necessity and a storage point. Happily, the past has passed. Part of this development process was e.g. When the job title of high school students changed from being a nurse to being a nursery teacher, and not everyone had an understanding of it at the time of which they were born, felt unnecessary, felt that it was premature, and did not understand how important it really is, but hopefully everyone today does. That's why we're looking at a nursery school today. What is the contribution of this educational institution to the shape, values, morals, and attitudes of the people in our community? I saw it right here in the first few days of my visit that there are many problems in the adult world. For example, this morning I attended a meeting where a social minister spoke of the need to counteract sexual violence. She spoke of equality and related other matters. Where do we begin to shape the attitudes and conduct of individuals in such areas? It's already in the child's care. The school is ideal for this, and it is the institution that teaches equality to individuals and speaks against discrimination on the grounds of sex, for the use of violence, of course, in any kind of violence, through the acting that takes place in high school and may be done to a greater degree in elementary school. There we media and create and build the moral code and the attitude for all new generations that equality and democracy are a fundamental approach in all our human activities. Of course, school is the most important organization that has this role already in place. Of course, it should be for everyone. I want to use this opportunity to brag about a little bit of being in my community at the Metose, we can deliver all the children six months and older, and if at all possible, we can. I point out that there's a basic model at playmates. The game and the work done there can shape values, attitudes, and the basis for the morals we are dealing with in adults. The basic school needs to continue to do so. In fact, it is not long since high school was introduced that we should have the goals of equality, democracy, and human rights to guide all the school work. A year ago, for the district elections, I gave much thought to what we could do at a local level to improve the interest of people and where we needed the most. After wondering this back and forth and forth again and after going through all kinds of analyses of this and even my own experience of no longer bringing children, i.e. My children have all reached 18 years of age, are now in my 20's, and I asked myself, " Why does life get so much easier financially? ' I feel that it has happened, but I haven't had much money that way. Then I said, "Wait! We have too many burdens on the children." I thought, " What's the way in that? Should I start arguing with the state of taxes and all sorts of transfers within the tax system where cases are brought into different complex solutions that I don't see at the end, thus turning the case away from me as part of a local government? As I thought about it more, I saw in my hand that all the children in my region used the nursery. The most simple would be to improve the standard of living, if I could lower or cancel my high school fees. It's an overexhaustible operation that finds its way directly into the pocket of a child's pocket. There is no one who accepts the payment to go out and buy the goodbye, the land, or the good things. It's fine to take the initiative out of here. This is where we need a lay-up. There will be discussions about farm income and then on the streets. I believe this is a goal that we should set up and begin a journey toward it, implementing the school for all children. It may mean starting with a year or a year old, parents without cost. Everyone was then informed and aware that we were preparing the nursery to share the baselines we would have been assigned to study files, that all our work was to be based on equality, respect for human rights, democracy, so that all play-school work would take into account basic factors. It is a matter of education, training, culture, and a major matter of life for those who are often at the same time buying homes, or starting a life course that is so heavy on their feet, as shown in the address given here, over and over and over again. This is closely related to what is fundamental to young people's standard of living. I think it's a very simple way to get by these people. I'm not gonna keep this for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u48	Mr. President. Only a few words on this important matter. paritaprevir This was the story of Svavarsdóttir's life. It's almost an afterlife from a previous matter, and it's about a tremendously important factor. It was all right. A senator who spoke before, this is in terms of education, social matters, and choiceliness, and is about how we can better fit in with young people in our community but also better equipped with children in our community. Since the school was formally recognized as a first class, there has been a marked water rush, and since high school, it has been a major part of the school program. It was in 1994 that they were recognized as a first degree, and the main curriculum came in 1999. Then, in 2007, when law was set on playing, elementary and high school at the same time, which took effect in 2008, we were working on a common primary course for all schools with a common introduction that shows that we view preschool as the first part of the education of young children. The majority of children in Iceland go to preschool, even though many may consider preschooling to be a peculiar term, for it is, of course, not the traditional sense that children sit and learn, but it learns a lot of things. I would like to say that, a mother of three children, all of whom have been enrolled in preschool, is very grateful to me for the rich share I have had in raising my children. For example, I would likely have been nervous every time my children climbed to a jungle gym if they had not learned these things at play. There are a lot of motor, speech, and social development in which it is so important to be with professional people and to be with other children and to enjoy needed stimulation. It's nice to also say that parents are very happy with the school job, at least where I know, perhaps because this school level is still relatively young compared with other school levels in the country and has been molded into considerable space and professional freedoms. There is a wide variety of activities in preschools in this country, different methods are used, different methods of teaching, and many different subjects. I think it's all a good example. But you can do better than that, that's what this synopsis is all about. First, it is about making the necessary legal adjustments to strengthen the state of the nursery as the first school, to become legalized parts of the local community, and thus to have their obligation to run a preschool, which also means that it is important to plan a game plan to become free of charge. We have ten years of schooling in Iceland where education is free of charge, although, of course, we are charged for school meals and leisure work, which is an unbreakable part of that education for the majority of children, but since we have already formally accepted the level of preschool as a first level, we should aim to make the school free. Since 2003 there has been a focus of the left movement ▪ green supply, which I believe will be the full conclusion that we accept the school level as first level, that it is free of charge, and that we view it as a normal part of the basic service. It is also an enormous improvement for parents who pay 30 fars. K. month for one child in high school. Sure there is brother and sister's discount but I think that such a dresser would remember a lot for families all over the country. Then there is the proposal to extend the birthmark to 18 months, as suggested here, and to ensure that children will get a full-year period directly after delivery. It is no secret that this is probably one of the most stressful times in many of the young children's families, the time when the hysteria escapes, and the uncertainty of what takes place. This is something that almost everyone is going through, uncertainty as the gap is being bridged in one way or another. By ensuring that a school education will take place after the completion of the maternity school course, apart from the need to extend the hysteria, for of course, nine months of birth canal is not sufficient if we want to e.g. To make sure that the first year a child can enjoy the company of both parents, I think we will ensure a much greater conjunction in the lives of a child's family, children, and their parents. We're going to be working to make the interests of children's families and young people in Iceland better, who could be helped on the basis of agricultural development here in a country where we see the recent move in which more people move from the country, young college students, on the losses there. That's a worry. We should be wondering, " How can I better live with these generations? ' It is not only the facilities discussed earlier that are of utmost importance but also how we are involved in securing this basic service. So it's a long time. I hope, in view of the fact that this was the best way to agree with the predecessors of this proposal, where members of the community and the public were called to review them, that we will be fortunate to achieve a solidarity on this proposal as well. This suggests that representatives of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of State, together with representatives of the European Union's Union's Department of Education and Education, which will, of course, bring up a stock of maternity, ship for this task force and will offer proposals for Education and Culture, which offer proposals for the General Assembly no later than May 1, 2016. We know that timing may at times be flexible on such issues, but this is an enormous interest both in promoting national education and in improving the ideal family. I have no doubt that if this were to be the case, that we were seeing free schools, it would be a hell of a better choice than the usual correction for the young people in the country. If we look at what they would be doing for this group every month, I have no doubt that this would be much more useful to that group at the very time where people are getting on. If we really want to accept such compensation, surely we should look to that matter. Then I mention the extension of the birthworm, which I believe is long-term. Although the 2000 maternity law has been important and a good step - I hope that the year is correct when I say 2000, yes, I'm doing the right number, I'm getting a nod from the hall - so it's been 15 years since then and at that time we've more likely seen that our birthorlof has been extending to our neighbors than we're still sitting here for nine months. There is no doubt, then, that this has become a long time period of action to take place here and must take action on the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u49	President. I just want to come up after two last speakers and say that I find it interesting to hear how high - school views have changed in a few decades. It would be an unmistakably respectable president that people's attitude toward more things in society had changed in that way. I remember the time when high school was mostly to protect my children so that someone would watch the children while Mom and Dad were out working. It'll wake you up. paritaprevir But Ríkharðsson's tough son, in good speech, notices that it's just what kids learn about habits and social skills of all kinds, which is good for all kids to learn. And what? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that she was grateful that her kids had been in nursery school. I remember when I moved, not very old but not young, to Belgium with a five - year - old boy. It was rather worse when he came to school, that he had not been in high school, because it was obligatory that all kids come to nursery school at three years of age; and it was a natural currency if it was obligatory. They could be half the day, but if the children didn't come, the parents called and said, " Shouldn't these kids be sent to school? ' They were so impressed that they would be accustomed to associating with children and being in a group when they arrived in high school and were to enter their standard of education. I have no particular question, just wanted to make this happen, and maybe stress that we need to raise our payments again. [[The president calls.]] It is as important as extending it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. Valgerður This comment was Bjarnadóttir by Bjarnadótttir. Of course, the degree of high school has changed dramatically with increasing education, research, and professional knowledge, which along with the recognition of the primary school phase. Of course, there was a lot of knowledge and experience, but it could be said that by this procedure, the educational part and the research section were given a certain Šspusst, so I use such a disrespectful expression on this. This has had a positive effect. On the other hand, I'd like to say that there is a concern, as a result, in a report with this suggestion that there is a shortage of professional playschool teachers. Some effort is needed there. I would have chosen to see this done in the cooperation of law - enforcement teachers, rural society, and the government, something like what has been done in some places where I know about it, in Britain, for example, to be taken for a marketing campaign, so you are changing capitalist methods, in order to get more people for high school. That market campaign proved to be a fine success. Motives can also be used, e.g. The loan fund of Icelandic students, to obtain more people from preschool schools, and to apply some of the rewards of the loan system. There is a need for us to continue to build up this fine work that is of great pleasure to parents, as I learned from my talk, that is vital. A six-year-old isn't what he was, like a boy. A senator mentioned, because almost most children now go to nursery school. Today, a six - year - old class is dealing with a completely different subject than it is for filming when I joined a six - year - old class. [[The president calls.]] It's natural because the foundation has become completely different.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u51	Mr. President. I just want to get involved in this important matter and thank you for many excellent talks that have been given here, including. have been well reasoned on the importance of the nursery. In my mind, this is a very urgent and ambitious social issue that is on the agenda and will follow the emphasis we have as a class, left green, put in the nursery from our agency and from the moment we started the struggle and the free play-school discussion in Iceland first and one class long ago. In the days of the day, there was a significant debate about reimbursement in the elementary school, which would have slipped behind men, and loud voices were saying that they had to come off the edge of this trend because the elementary school should be free of charge. Of course, the school should be the same as the first class, so here are three important issues below. It's that the school will be free, closing the hole between the hysteria and the nursery and ensuring adequate funding for both. I'm mainly going to make the last show on financing. I'd like to say, though, that if you really want to change your words into activities, I think they're going through a lot less fortunate than making it a huge effort to improve the birthworm system or build it again by lifting the roofs that are right, you don't want to accept the trend that, in the growing order of fathers, they don't have to, and then extend the birth lagoon. It must be arranged somewhere to meet for its part in cooperation with the State, making the effort needed to handle the nursery so that, in general, they can take the children after parents are born. Sadly, we have not progressed on these topics in the past three years since the first government took the first step in rebuilding the birthworm again after it had certainly been severed, primarily in the form of the loss of the roof during its most difficult years. I asked you a question last year to the highest level. Financial Minister on the provision of remuneration-related remuneration, i.e. The insurance bill and its treatment. It is the birth stock and has been provided since 2000 by law 0.85% of the country's entire deposit system. From 2000◯2005 this proportion remained maintained, which was added again to the maternity oral stock, and the object of the stock was raised to 1.08% of this same stock, which was thus maintained until 2012 when the previous government of the left green and Conspiracies decided to support the financial status of the breeding stock on the one hand to rebuild his finances to a new game, which he had been driven to or below zero in years, and on the other hand, to build the foundation for a new birthworm rights. Then, in 2013, the first step was taken. But what did the present government do when it came to power? She divided the income stock of a stock stock of stock and the proportion to which it flowed, 1.28% went down to 0.65%, and so it remains. This, of course, led to almost collapse of income stocks, almost halved, though the tax stock has now taken over. They were 1,22.7 billion in 2012 and 2013 with the increase I quoted earlier, but they crashed to 6.7 billion in 2014 and now release 7 billion. It's the lowest number, the least income ever made since 2001. Less money is now set aside for real life in the birthed ordinary treasure, but it has never been done since he began working in the present form on the basis of a new law on the stocks of stocks. This has led to, if we look at the financial status of the fund or the funds, that the fund's own funds were collected to build the foundation of both the roof and the extension of the birth serpent, as legally established in the past government is eating up. In 2011, the birth reserve of 2.5 billion in 2012 and 6.7 billion in 2013 was reduced from negative status to 1.5 billion. As a result, he was well along, and the fund was built so that he could cope with further expenses in the future, which would result in lifting the roof and extending his maternity. But what does a blessing to the present government, Mr. President? She is so ambitious in these matters that she halves the income and transfers it to the State. She does not use the opportunity to maintain a strong position as a stock fund and build it up with part of her insurance deposit stock in times of unemployment decline, so it could have been possible to cut down the entire insurance fee, even though a stock fund had been allowed to keep its share. Thus, in 2013 the situation of nearly 6.8 billion falls down to 5 billion in 2014 and down to 3 billion this year. Similarly, the fund will be reduced to 1 billion or even more in 2016 because in the budget we are being proclaimed the same state, with no ambition at all. Governments in these matters. I don't believe that this government's plan is to have it totally finished in this regard, is not going to do anything, not lift the roof, not extend the birthmarks, let alone starting to lay the foundation for the future such as the one we're talking about, that the maternity will be strengthened along with the fact that the school will be strengthened, so that we will finally be able to build a gap between maternity and nurserys, and safe to the young children's futures well - being, without having to have special concern for the children, rely on it. In my view, taking this issue into consideration brings untold social benefits, but it also brings tremendous benefits to the industry and to the whole community. To tell you the truth, I think some of its most intense supporters should be members of the workforce, and I have no doubt that they would be willing to join in that process along with countries and rural society to build this system like this. Whether the employer is public or private, what does it matter when you compete for qualified young people in an ambitious job structure? It's this environment that really matters. It shows all the tests. It often outweighs when families are asked what determines their decision to live here or to work here, and the circumstances of the family are usually high, very normal, because that is what responsible parents think of. There are other factors beyond the pay level alone. This has been experienced by prospective rulers many times, knowing that it is in the interests of the whole community and, especially, the commercial world that these infrastructure are present, that they are strong, and the environment of the families is good in this regard. We Icelanders must simply do better. We cannot offer our young people the fact that the birthworm is much shorter than anywhere else, and of course, it is less demeaning because the roofs lie too low today and there are nonsense uncertainty even for a period of six months with the many problems between the parents'right to delivery and the children's opening up. Of course, the situation is different, and in some places very good, as we heard in the past from the use of cocktails, and individual communities have taken the step to the finish and have free nurserys. I don't know if Sylvester was the first group to do that, but at least I can remember visiting there 10 to 15 years ago and how much I was so happy that it was a small community that had made a decision and made the school go free. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u52	V.E.G. President. I come up here to express the great pleasure of this council resolution made by a council of greens and challenge the government to accept it and work progressively to improve the position of our youngest children in the community. I feel, and it was shown in the presentation of the last speaker, w. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, that there is far too much ambition in this society in which children are concerned, and so it has been too long. In fact, the last government took a big step toward extending the birthworm to a level of 18 months. I think it would be very good to go up to 12 months at level one. As the report shows, school is a child's first grade. The report also shows, and we all know that the cost of rural society is going to be substantially increased by taking children into nurserys at this age, changing schools and people better, and it all costs a lot more money. Although I may be irresponsible, I do not wonder how much things cost when it comes to education. Of course, we should try to do things in the most practical way, but when our children's education and the community are at stake, we should not be talking about expenses, it's an investment. We're investing in the future, and we're investing for society everything. I would like to read a very good paragraph in the report, by permission of the president: ▪ The content of the nursery schools, the emphasis on their importance and justice, which includes the fact that all preschoolers have opportunity for playschoolers regardless of the financial interests of their guardians, has been an important part of the battle of the left movement ▪ green supply for better society from the establishment of the political party, and the subject is designed to improve and trust the interests of children in educational and social interests, to reduce the financial burden of smaller families, to improve the majority of the nation's majority, and to promote racial equality. This is a very good description of why we should do this. Now I have my own experience, being married to a head of law school, how important this institution is, and how important it is for children to get into such institutions - or not institutions, that's a bad word, into such an educational environment. That's where the education of children begins. In fact, children's education begins right away in the home, and you see yourself as a grandfather for the first time how he develops and how important it is to live in a safe and good environment where he is taught to live in the community. I have often quoted the others and these men, and for example, by permission of a president, Gunnar, a Hersveinn who has given much attention to such matters: ▪ Childhood is a fairy tale, and raising a child is an adventure. Childhood is precious and sensitive, and it requires consideration and respect. In order to assess circumstances and make married decisions, the child needs a enthusiast, advice, and guidance. The task is the same as in all adventures: Learning to distinguish between good and evil and to show courage and strength. That's exactly what you see in the kind of work that takes place at the theatre school today. The work is designed to teach children right away how to associate with one another and how to live in human society. It has been established in recent debates and in recent years the situation of former carriers has changed dramatically. It was the last time that housing and emergency work were being done to them. I often wondered, " Why are we in this position today regarding the housing of young people and the state of families that are starting life, starting to live, and setting up a home? ' Why is the situation so extreme in Iceland? And why are we always so far behind? I also wondered why the current government withdrew the action that was started during the last term. I don't understand. We're talking about children, and we're talking about the future. The children are the most precious possession of this nation. How well we think about them from the beginning affects the way they get out in society after school. It's so important that it's a continuous process. I'm happy if it turns out that children will be taken into nursery school at 12 months of age, we can start with that. Of course, it's always a small argument, we live in a community like that. For example, I met an older man on my journey in the district, and he said: "You have to stop this damned child worship in Iceland. I asked him what he meant by it, and he replied: "Just this child worship, it's supposed to be all for children and young people. There are still voices like this in Iceland, people who are stuck in some difficult way and do not realize that it is in 2015. We live in a vastly fast society that has become diverse, multicultural society, a variety of human life beings. We must be ready to accept and participate in the diversity. You can see this at the studios, for example. In my community. I dare not name a number, but there are many members of various ethnic groups in families that favor different religions. It tells me how important the first phase is, the children learn at the early stages of association, showing respect for different religions, culture, and learning culture. I think the whole nation will be happy if it becomes clear that the birthworm will be 12 months, and children will be able to get directly into nursery after that. There are probably some who disagree, that's always the case. As mentioned earlier, I feel that the pride of the government is crying in these matters. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir has taken over the government since her sale of 40 billion and taxes are being taken down. You wonder how we're going to run the community. I don't think it's too bright when it's done. We need to strengthen our community, strengthen it. If it is not the children who are to be top priority, what should be done? It is always like talking about children and the interests of children and how we should associate with them, and this subject can be dealt with with. I was one of those appointed to advocate children at the General Assembly and have worked hard to be their spokesman here and will continue to do so because you always see better and better the tremendous importance of society in caring well for children and their circumstances. As it turns out, if we could keep the nursery free, it'd be great. I feel that because it's accepted the first grade of the children, we shouldn't let people pay, any more than they did in high school, high school, or college. Then, as shown in the report, we have a real problem getting a nursery teacher. It has become a five - year study, but the terms and purchases have become a disgrace. You wonder, though, why the pay of preschool teachers is terriblely low, but the pay of high school students and university students is so high that they deserve it, not that they deserve it altogether, but they are preschooled children who are the most sensitive and most important class of their life, since they are born and until they go to elementary school. So I'm just celebrating this suggestion, hoping that she'll get a good walk and we'll be able to talk about it. I hope the government is dressed up in a book, as someone said before, and is getting birthday orcs and play-school issues so it's time to do it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's just that way. V.E.G. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u53	A respectable president. I like this synopsis proposal, and I hope it gets started here. I think children and particularly young children are missing interest groups, a group that doesn't have some strong interest group that fits e-mailing to members of Congress and promoting their interests. Regarding the system in Iceland, I have found that we have a very good school, but to this end parents rely on a day - to - day parents. I learned about 15, 20 years ago in Denmark, it was so long ago that there was a system, so that there were five parents of day parents, and if the day parents became ill or the children of a day parents who became ill, the children were divided into the day - to - day parents. As a result, I had a job and never missed a day. Yet, there is enough time for children to get sick, often and frequently ill. But when this is so, they need to be with their child at home because the day - old is sick or because the child of a day - to - day parent is ill, it can be quite many days and very little security in this system. I don't understand that we're here in Iceland, 2015, still having so bad a service for young parents. That is why it is important that we not only fix it but also make sure that children get into preschool sooner. The same thing I say about the birthworm, it's important to strengthen it. We can be proud in Iceland to have established a system where fathers were actually shot up in holiday, but hopefully most of them willingly and freely, but it's very important that there's enough money in a stock store. Of course, it would be great if the school was free. I think it may be in most countries that way, but it must never be burdensome. It is right now better to have a child in preschool than a day - old parent with the money you have to pay. Of course, that would be very good. And then I'm totally up for the discussion about it some other time, maybe she doesn't belong here, if it's really realistic that all play-school personnel have five years of college education. I've been very skeptical about it, and I don't really know how it happened, and I've been doing it for the best. I don't think so. I feel that we have gone into college in many ways. I think re-education and a good basic study can do a lot of good. I don't think it's necessarily national practical. I'm not going to belittle college education, but it's a delicate discussion that I still think we need to take, because it can also help us clean up that we can lower our nursery age and even reduce our school fees. Other than that, I am very positive about this or just completely positive. In fact, I think it's very important to get some merit on this. We've actually been, I think, to lose people abroad because of this. I felt it on my own when I was outside what it was like to put on a whole other planet about having children, with child support, access to play schools and ladies, never shutting down the nursery, which I thought was really good, you could take your summer vacation in the summer, and when the kids were sick, and so on. So even if there's some expense involved in this, I think we owe it to young children, because that's far too little to be done for in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u54	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill on the Secret and True Minister's Information and Truth. The bill's forwarders, along with me, are why. Senators Birgitta Jónsdóttir and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. In 1st. The bill is submitted to the conversion of the 50th paragraph. Congress and suggest that it be added to a new sentence, as follows: On violation of the required information minister. 1.mg. Applys the law on the right to the minister's responsibility. Two. The bill is specified for addition to Article 10. The law on the right of the Minister's office, of which it is recommended to administer the punishment of the minister. The bill suggests that the law is added to the new letter: if it [i.e. The minister] deliberately or wonderfully negligently provides misinformation or secret information in a case handled by the General and made a significant difference to the council's assessment of the matter. A respectable president. Prior to any change in knowledge and truth minister's viewpoint since the introduction of a matter on the subject was first made, the bills with similar material have been submitted several times. In a discussion of a bill proposed by Páll Pétursson at 116 C.E., it was to form the view that the matter was political, and it would be best for the council to settle political differences by discussing rather than to attract a minister of legal responsibility. Regarding this subject, the 2009 Ásmundur Helgason, then the world's chief legalist, Generalis, who appeared in the legal magazine of the lawyers, says: ▪ The political arrangement that includes Congress does not guarantee [...] enough that governments will take care to inform the council of relevant issues. The danger is that the government considers itself to be only a committed part of the government that supports it. She trusts in him, and at the risk of making problems for her when cases arise, she is less likely to do so. This may result in the granting of all necessary information to members of the Commission but neglect to provide information to the General Assembly, including members of the administrative body. That can't be viewed as normal in democratic terms. The Parliament is designed to operate as a single stage, reflecting the differences between political views in the community. It is the General Assembly that handles the legal authority and the financial authority and inferences on other matters, not the administrative part, and there is open talk that makes the voters possible. For any information to rest on a minister, whether political or legal, it must be at the General General, not to some members, or to part of them. So it will contribute to greater rights of the minority in case such a thing is given legal value, as it is less on political grounds. In his article, Ásmundur also points out the fact that a misdirected, misleading, or inadequate information to the Allegis can influence the outcome and thus undermine the democratic conditions on which the administration is based. Therefore, [meg] argues that the order which the Minister forbids to implement his information to the Council in this way is an important moral and political protocol supported by the universal demands for democratic government. However, in order for it to be counted as a legal law, it is likely to have a firm standing by law or by law. Ásmundur further points out that rules on information and truth have a wide range of laws to form in cases where fraud is used for the benefit of others. Such behavior is to form a penalty under the various legal requirements of the general penal law and the laws for contracting, commissioning, and invalid legalities. Then the false information given to the court would also be punishable. In recent years, there has been a number of awakenings on the surveillance role of the Generals to the European Commission. This change of attitude is seen, among other things, in recent reports that have been published by members of the Council and in particular the report of Bryndís Hlöðversdóttir report on the Commission's activities, the results of the Commission's research committee, the conclusions and proposals of the Parliament's Committee to review the report on the issues responsible for a response to the General General Assembly. The above reports and suggestions highlight the importance of providing best information and truth ministers and suggest four major changes. First of all, it is suggested that information and truth be measured in the constitution and up to 54th paragraph. it will be changed to state that a minister is obliged to respond to requests and requests of the general council. For this obligation it is not recommended in the current regulations of the Constitution, but it may be possible that in the bill of the Board of Directors, information and truth may be proposed to be established in a constitution and emphasis on the fact that information provided by the Minister should be properly, appropriately and satisfactory. Second, each of the above reports considers whether a violation of an information minister should be punished by the Minister's Qualification Act, as in the Danish Court. Third, it is suggested that the Council's right to information and information from the administration will be explained in Congress laws. Fourth, it is suggested that Congress laws be explained to the extent to which the information on the activities of partial or complete members of the State is considered to be official issues. A respectable president. In 2011, changes were made in the Congress to support the Agency's surveillance role with the Commission and to lay down the surveillance work in the specific section of the law. The chapter specifically states that a minister should provide information that can be of significant significance to the Parliament's assessment of the matter, whether the minister's initiative, the initiative, or the council's committee, and also that a minority of members of the committee can make such a request. Moreover, a minister is obliged to grant such a request as soon as possible and no later than seven days after receiving a request. It is then permitted to provide a panel of data and information that is otherwise forbidden to comply with the rules of confidentiality, and the senator should be discreet there. Thus, the decision is to explain the rules of the Council Court, especially those of the Council Committee, to information and information from the administration. At the transition, members of Parliament were able to access data beyond the public's rights according to information law, and thus the maintenance and monitoring role of regular committees is established. Individual members of Parliament can still seek the position and explanation of a minister with inquiries and with discussions about matters at council meetings. 54th. Congress is now advised that a committee or more of it can request a report from a minister on official issues. The chief aim is to strengthen the surveillance role of the General Assembly and the Senate Enlightenment rather than to promote the intelligence of the Minister, mentioned in the 50th chapter. Parliament after 2011 change There's a bit of a variability between the two. Their right to request information from a minister refers to their right to the council. On the other hand, the information - related minister is referring to his duty to provide sufficient and correct information to the General regardless of whether a minister takes the initiative or a member calls for it. It is the objective of this bill to put in force information ministers to the General for the better of the Ministers in charge of the General Assembly. The minister's responsibility is twofold, one of which is a legal responsibility, which involves a judicial and responsibilities minister for their duties of office, and the other is the political responsibility based on the Council of Congress. It means that the Council may feel that a minister's office or approves of him with distrust, leading to his disfellowshipping. In accordance with local laws on ministerial responsibility, it is not recommended that a minister's responsibilities be distinguished from the Allied Council, gives misleading information, or conceals it when dealing with a case. Therefore, the Ministers do not have the necessary resources and may be tempted to give misinformation or misinformation to the Allied Council. This can lead to unsurpassed treatment at the General Assembly and cause complete confidentiality between the Generals and the Minister. If this bill is legal, it will be punishable for Ministers to vacate the Allied or grand nobility of false or misleading information that has a significant significance in the treatment of a case at the General Assembly. In the adjustment of the law on the rights of Ministerhood, there are two rules. The first rule deals with the accuracy of the information required by members of the Parliament or members of the Parliament with a minister and can protect any official subject without being bound to a matter for the treatment of the General Assembly. The latter rule provides information that a minister should take his own initiative and have a significant significance in the handling of a case at the General Assembly. A respectable president. Because of a violation of the clearness of penalties, the bill specifically seeks to have laws that can be explained and that are the main terms that can be explained in the report. It is important to note that the law includes only deliberate violations and offenses committed by gross inadequacy. Discriminatoryly, a minister gave information that was deliberately designed to mislead or hide the facts from members of the council. An act of extreme inadequacy led a minister to assume that he would have sufficient information and would fail to obtain enough information or to examine the truthfulness of the information he provided. The law points to false, misleading information. Clearly, what information is considered wrong. Error information is designed to give the wrong impression of events or facts, but it may not be allegory, but it may be misleading. Unquestionably, misinformation have fallen to convince a person of something other than the truth without directly agreeing to being wrong. In that case, the presentation of information can be misleading, as the source of information can determine the way it is provided. It is vital to insist that information provided to the Generals and generals is presented in a clear and meaningful way. Finally, it is decreed that the Council is to conceal information that has a significant significance in the treatment of a case at the General Assembly. In this case it is not only information that has been called after members of the Parliament or members of the Parliament but also information to be given to the Minister by his own initiative, while the information has a significant significance to the management of the Council. For this to be a violation, a minister must hide information he has access to and influence a case for the treatment of the Council. This is a violation of a voluntary minister's initiative to provide information regardless of whether or not they were requested. A respectable president. It is this bill's assessment that its materials are urgent, and it has been emphasized that the information- and truth-related Ministers will be ensured by law in a number of legal reports of improved management practices that have been developed in recent years. So I suggest the bill goes to 2nd. ... andwhat. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u55	President. That's a very interesting bill. Now, a man has viewed it as a matter of duty as a minister to distinguish matters correctly. If a minister is answering questions to the council, or if he is reporting to the council for which he is asking, then it is both reasonable and normal, right and duty, that the minister should answer correctly. There's information here. It seems to me that these wood layers are broken or not immediately may be discovered. Or is it not until later? A minister is asked for information and he or she gives it, and what? When did they reveal whether they were adequate or wrong? Now we often ask for information in unprepared queries and ask questions. I think of it as information, and it's quite common for a man to turn out and turn away from answering. Does that make you feel better? It is naturally very serious to resist. [[The president calls.]] I'm trying to figure out where this is on the scale.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate that question. Senator. If I understand why. A member of the council would ask if information was sufficient or correct. It is natural to evaluate on a case by case basis. I don't think there's any magic solution to it. This is natural thinking as a highly conservative instrument, if the bill is legal, before the council because it is being introduced as a minister responsible for giving the council false information or not good enough information. It is natural to cover unprepared queries, prepare question times, and so on. The accuracy of the information and the ability to evaluate it must then be considered at each visit. Something may have to be revealed, both by means of protection from the media, by courts, and by the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u57	A respectable president. I'm just trying to figure out where this is right. When we talk about information in this case, are we just talking about any information? I'll ask a minister for a housing matter or some bill that is in preparation and the minister will come and answer in some way. Then, when a bill is asked that this reply, given two or three months before or three weeks earlier, or that I don't know when, was wrong, because the bill has changed or something like that. I suppose we're not talking about that kind of information. We're rather talking about some information that is in the system, e.g. to provide incorrect information on housing conditions, or what? I'm trying to figure out where we came to this penalty point because it's a natural big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u58	A respectable president. I appreciate the fine depressions that we have here. There is a delay in sufficiency by the law. It would probably be the role of the Commission and the Commission to determine when to file charges and when to start an investigation. What kind of information are we talking about? Actually, it's all the information that the Parliament formally asks for, whether it's in the Senate or with a file request. It is also a question of these two rules that we made. The first rule involves the information the members ask for, for example, in a talk chair, and that can be any information. So it can be about whether the sky is blue or not. The second rule involves information to be given by the Minister on its own. So the voluntary minister is also drawn into this. Now I don't know if I'm clear enough, but this applies to all the information requests that are formally proposed, no matter what form it is, within the council after a formal session, as is the case when a secretary neglects to give any information to the council on his own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u59	President. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. I want to thank you. A senator for the historical record of this bill, which is clearly a lot of thought and hard work involved. I'd like to allow me to go to a few basics with a question to the point. A senator asking about the need for this legislation. I think it's always important for us to consider when we're measuring for Congress, whether it's a prime or a Senate proposal, that we wonder what it is that requires change. What is it in the present system that makes Porta's council come first? Well, maybe in the first place. What is the real need? What rights are there? How would we be looking at a better community? I think we're gonna do what. A senator shares interest in people's well - being of power and that it is so that we do not confide in our clients by receiving power, whether they are legal or executive authority or what power they are. How, then, are we, in this way, putting our trust in the position and right of the public before power?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Svavardótti Svavarsdóttir for good questions. Hv. A senator asks who the need is. It has been recommended in various research reports and that this is a necessary change, whether we are referring to the General's investigation report or the WHO surveillance report. This is something that is missing in Icelandic legislation, but it is comparable in Danish legislation and in various other countries that Congress may require correct and true answers. At present, it is only possible to suggest that it is in the current law. It's good work to tell the truth, and I believe most ministers are usually telling the truth in their own time, but the natural situation has come to question whether a minister has told the truth. You're right. A senator tells us that we want to exercise power well. How do we contribute to this better society? It's about balance of power. As the situation is today, we cannot hold a minister responsible if he came and lied even though we know better. Then we will need some means, both to make it inaccessible, simply to punish it, and in order that if such a case comes, we might do something about it, which is the natural basis for having a good democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u61	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I feel it in my heart that I would like to have a much, much longer conversation with what. A senator on this matter. But I'll pause at the debate, the political debate that's going on in Iceland when people who are elected agents and people who are in political battle say very much: well, I just put my work in the voters' court, I don't have to understand the truth and when and what. And those of you who are around say, "I believe the senator, or minister, has provided adequate explanations of his behavior. " We know this. There are many examples of this. It is so unusual for the Icelandic ruler to have nothing to do with one or no one, whether judgment or anything, until his own day. I'd like to pray. A senator is just pulling outside the subject of the bill. I was very interested in wondering how such a matter would affect the political debate in Iceland or on this tradition, which almost looks to you as the authority and authority of a day, and then you don't have to ask one or any questions until the next election, you put your work in the court of voters, as it is usually said in a Icelandic political debate. If the senator wanted to wonder about it with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-13.u62	A respectable president. I think this is the first step or one of the steps we have to take to get this old Iceland off my back. A senator spoke of us putting these in the court of voters and praising all beautiful things. The time has passed when it is considered acceptable. It's time to take this step. This is an essential step to improve the quality of ministers and others in their language and actions. I think this can also help prevent ministers from participating in the firing warfare that has marked Icelandic politics. But more than anything else, I think this is a step to say goodbye to the old U.S. Chiefs Association, which at times seems to be ruling in the Council, so that it was published for this blessed New Iceland, which we were promised after election in 2009. The truth of the minister is, in my opinion, an essential step to creating a better Icelandic society, simply because it has shown that the present arrangement is not strong or good enough and does not provide enough support.
