ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u1	A respectable president. I come up here to discuss the work of the Generals and to express deep concern for the situation that I feel is involved in the matter of Congress. I was here last night at a meeting with a development team and a senior bill. Secretary of State to put down the Development Agency and import it into the Ministry of State. Here, repeated comments were made. Councilmen of the clans who make positions of government contrary but swift. The members of the board of directors did not comment. Some of them were at the discussion, but we made no film to hear from them. The members of the Independence Party and the Superintendent, appointing the Foreign Affairs Committee. They were not interested in answering our talks in an effort to have a conversation, to answer criticism, to reason, to ask questions. I wondered, a respected president, in view of the fact that the Council is supposed to be a seminar where we have a conversation, where we are expected to exchange opinions to reach some goal. We've done it, we've done it all too late in the course of a case, and I don't know if it's a man's opinion of 1st. just don't talk about them, so that they don't go over them. I just don't remember, for instance, during the last term, saying things without some conversation being done unless it was a big difference. This is not the case. A respectable president. I now recommend that this be taken up on the Presidency Committee. There is no doubt that the General conference will continue until the evening, with members of the European Parliament discussing matters among themselves and discussing the more part of this council will not begin until long afterward. I'm afraid things are often in crisis because they don't start with the board members until it's too late in the process. I present it, a respectable president, a concern for the state of the council and the failure of the members of the greater body here in discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u2	V.E.G. President. In the wake of the Continental Conference of the United Nations, Rannveig Guðmundsdóttir, former General, was commissioned to lead a committee within the category on the residence of older people, The Committee returned a report and proposal for a national meeting and had performed a very ambitious and in the spirit of the future vision of the United States that Iceland should be a place where all can live when they grow up without regard to economic or cultural background. Since retirement persons will increase by 70% until 2030, it is necessary to plan how we are going to ensure a good life for all. In our suggestions, we focus on the fact that people should be able to live at home. It must be set in a law definition of services, different services of different types of the services provided, which are gradually adjusted as needed. Then we put much emphasis on rehabilitation, for by rehabilitation, people are much easier to stay at home and cope with their daily activities. We want home service to be userd and fixed on individual needs, and we want older people to be able to choose apartments for older citizens or service apartments at affordable prices, farms, or rents, and to provide low - income housing. In addition, we would like to have a yearly study of the will of people between 55 and and 75 years of age, in order to make practical plans for construction of property, rent and home estate apartments. These are goals and ways that people can live at home and have a good life, while the number of nurses needs to be increased by 160 for the next 15 years and they are not overrated, since there is already a great lack of such space. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u3	V.E.G. President. Since the reign of Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, she has done almost everything in the opposite direction to what is stated in its beautiful declaration of policy, and it can be said that she has thrown the work of thousands of Icelands into the garbage heaps of history. It's a new release law on the state radio fuuku. Investment plan for 2013 Protocol 20/20, national parishion Program for member member society, nature protection Act, frameworks are in a state of agitation and commitment to national pay on continuing discussions with the EU frauds. There is no consultation for anything. There's still a capital master around here. It's still insurance here. Homing, nursing and health matters are very uncertain. People are discriminated against because of their dwellings in various services. Long - term tours for tourism have made it clear that there is a big problem that will not be responded quickly. The situation of the country's roads is a fine testimony to this fact. The subject of older citizens, children, disabled people, cripples, and young people is ignored. The small amount of money spent in this series of cases makes it possible for waiting lists to grow, and the problems of these groups are growing and increasing. The road system is actually breaking down. There's been a war market situation here. As never before, the strikes and strikes have struck. Today, in the spring months, there is a bitter conflict in which the society of the most difficult jobs are being carried out, and it has been mentioned among the hands to bear the burden of a state of stability, stability for rich people. 300 up. K. The minimum wage is required. To me, this is a quiet little amount, in view of the monthly rationing of job drivers by the middle managers and employers. V.E.G. President. Here come the senators in a pit and complain about the people in the country's lack of appreciation, basking for their polls, and that here is not a dominant character mood because of the correction. I urge these senators to come down to the earth to the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u4	A respectable president. I'm going to have a conversation with the employees' salary in aluminium. Recently, Aranesp's Work People's Office in Northern Europe wrote a very favourable labour agreement for workers in the Northern Aluminium on Grundartanga. The contract that takes into account the increase in salary is special in this respect for this date since January 1. and that's when employees received a 6% raise, plus 300,000 dollars. private payment, but these 600 workers are thereby creating rural areas in the area around the 28 to 30 million in the increase in pay. In this context, there is a beginner's fee at the North wing branch at less than 500,000 k. per month. Those with ten years of experience are fighting at 600,000 bucks. per month. Behind this salary there are 182 hours at work. In addition to this, North African employees receive a suspect in holiday and December improvements total of 340,000. each year, but at the general labour market, except for these payments of 113,100 dollars. I'm projecting this because, today, Silicor was signing a contract to buy equipment of 70 billion in a new factory that rises on a suspect where 450 people get jobs, varied, and well - paying jobs. In Helguík, we create nearly 300 jobs in building two silicone factorys where 300 well paid jobs will be created. That's what we're looking at, the sum of our electricity he's showing to the people in the country like this. It is reflected in a fine reward and the well - being of these people. It is vital that we continue to protect that structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u5	Mr. President. Hv. A senator who spoke before me spoke of the big industry. I'm going to talk about something else, as was made fun of us left greens in the past. But what else is there? Is it not the country's tourism that has become the largest export sector in the country? Yesterday, the Lands Bank met with a conference on the state and outlook of tourism. The Bank of Economics predicts that 2017 will have 430 tourists on every 100 inhabitants. There's a huge increase ahead of us. This year's increase is expected to be about 20%. Since 2011, the number of new jobs in tourism has increased by about 4 thousand, which is about 40% of the new jobs that have developed. As I mentioned, tourism has become more common in exporting income than in fishing roads and industry. The spirit of this article is on the rise. U.S. Traveller Doug Lansky called attention to the fact that this vast number of tourists certainly meant a lot of challenges for Icelandic society, how we managed to maintain the attraction of the country, which, of course, is chiefly Icelandic nature. The main reasons why tourist attractions in other parts of the world sometimes deteriorate would be overpopulated. Also, tourism would have to offer up new destinations, new destinations, and the structure of society's infrastructure. At this point, we have not yet decided how we will fund a tourist position, and we must take decisive action. The government can't pull its legs anymore. I also think it is extremely important that we increase the appeal of tourist attraction throughout the country, so it will not be just one large bubble in the capital area that explodes, that's the project ahead. [[The president calls.]] But there's something else that's in the country for tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u6	Mr. President. I find it important, in view of the joy that existed here among some of the candidates yesterday, to return to our debt of debt, to think that it was presented as a subsidence on the price of a mortgage. It's very strange to me that a large percentage of the subsidies in some people go on cheating loans. I don't think it was what people were expecting, but the evidence is that it's higher than the prices of the house, that's why they're going in. It's worth the effort that it was shown yesterday that it was at the expense of a vulture, but it's not like that, it's at the expense of a government fund. What I wanted to say today is that we're reading about older citizens and desperate people who are deprived of their pension money because they have to stay in medical institutions for a certain time. There is something that we need to fix and stick to together. Yesterday's progress was here in the East, where a coffin was placed, where disability were elected and that they did not have the right to strike, and considered it to be both an anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - death regime. At the same time that all of this is taking place, and the workers and the general paymen are proclaiming strikes here, for example, the main meeting of HB Granda to take a position on interest rates of less than 3 billion. The country's company doesn't think they can offer 300 you to their employees. K. a salary over the next three years, says it's going to be all over. What hypocrisy, a respectable president. And not only that, at the same time, the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnugson intends to increase the number of bank managers to three. It is the runoff of the government at the cost of the government. What's with the priorities? Physicists say it's totally unnecessary and it smells like politics. There are not many people who meet the conditions that we need, and that's three times the trouble. [[The president calls.]] The government needs to start thinking about what she wants to put high priority on her resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u7	Mr. President. We in the United States are pleased with the step-in-the-way income tax system of individuals. We are happy that the income tax thus plays a two - sided role in earning money for the state's funds and contributing to the equalizing of society. When reimbursement of the income tax system, we would like to see if there is a reason to increase the gap between taxes and to increase the number of them, and thus the highest level will definitely be a high income tax instead of a tax. We want to make sure that a fair contribution made by more money-wise groups and big-tempered people goes to the community through the tax system. The Supreme Declaration. Governments say about taxes, by permission of Presidents: The evaluation of the tax system and the tax system changes will be done in the past few years and offer suggestions for improvement... In this regard, it is said that the tax system should be simplified and income binding reduced. So we may expect to have proposals for change sooner than later, but the terms are almost halfway through. So I'd like to ask the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, what? paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, if he agrees to dissociate a stepwise income tax system. If so, does he feel that a single - step income tax system is more just than that? If there is a change in the tax system, how do you feel? For example, a senator proposes that a government fund can be bridged because of changes or demands. A senator that the increase in income tax pay and the decrease in income taxes that the highest income has will have returned the same amount of money and the gradual tax system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u8	A respectable president. I thank you for the privilege of being asked such profound and interesting questions about the tax system. I have to admit, I haven't quite made up my mind yet in these matters. I'm still with the beginner, and I'm interested in all the views. But in general, I haven't heard that the government is actually trying to defuse the tax system, I haven't seen it in the government contract. I know the Secretary of finance has already spoken for it. I am interested in hearing all the evidence with and against it. In general, I think we all agree that the tax system is normally being used in some way for income balance and to contribute more to the community, I think everyone agrees on it in Iceland, whether it's right or left class or middle class. Then the question is, How far can we go before it starts to discourage those who work at that time, such as. hard work and perhaps hard work. For example, you heard stories from some of the northern countries where dentists went home by morning. 12 and no one had a dental repair because by then 90% of the total income tax was in addition. Then what we'd like to achieve is to have turned up in the opposite direction. I just agree with what. There's a senator here who's scolding, and he's got to be careful that the tax system is a means of earning money to promote shared projects, so we can do the work we would like to do together. It is natural for those with more loads and, of course, to pay much more taxes, whether the system is step - by - step or not. Then there's a question about how the steps are set up, what's a big personal discount, and other things. I am very interested in studying thoroughly all these ideas and viewpoints and discussing at the council. I hope the changes, if they do, will benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u9	President. During the last assembly, there was trouble. paritaprevir Dr. Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdóttir's Honour for a health minister for the beauty and plastic surgery of the female genitals. Its answer was so far and precise, but the fact was that there was no information about this in Iceland because plastic surgeons refused to give it and felt that they needed to give more information than their coal in the North countries. That is, in fact, the answer to that question. Now, my attention and others have been brought to the attention of Iceland's midwife partner and Iceland's Society of Early delivery and gynaecologists that they are deeply concerned about the development of cases in this field and that these measures are hardly ever necessary for medical reasons but are being performed only as a sign of beauty. The short-term and long-term effects of these actions are not known and need to be further investigated. A respectable president. It is very serious that often when it comes to council members, such as the rest of them. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir did here at last council, offering inquiries, in fact, we don't get any answers. It is often as if we have no advice, but people in the country believe that it is important to be in the General and that the people of the council can have answers that matter. So now, by drawing attention to this here, I want to encourage us who are in this room to consider how we can get those answers to this big question that we need about how many so-called plastic surgery, i.e. beauty surgery is performed on the female genitals, unnecessary, and that plastic surgeons answer that question. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u10	V.E.G. President. I was going to talk about everything else, but I'm going to end up talking about the fact that the conversation has been so much fun that I have to participate in it. I'm so happy that this place stands up. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, VG, is talking about a travel service that VG wanted taxpins to die last year. I'm so happy with this transition that I just have to come up here and express my happiness. Other than that, I meant, too, because I'm now on this happy mood. paritaprevir Dr. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir spoke of earlier, saying that, of course, we adverts are proud, proud, and contented that our achievements in the correction of the debt have come about, that nearly 100,000 persons who applied for us, with more than 500 except who refused at the last minute and have probably good reasons for doing so, are now prepared for their actions, 60,000 homes. Of course it is a great achievement, and of course we are proud of it. We will continue to be proud of this because we find it and we will see and hear how this action is important to people throughout the country. Many have been corrected by 1 to 3 million. Their debts have dropped. The monthly pay load may have dropped between 15,000 and 25,000. which, at least, is 180,000 to 300,000. every year. If the loan is 10 years from your life, it's between 1.8 and 3 million in 10 years. Who doesn't remember this, Mr. President? Who doesn't remember this? Then we must also state that 80% of this amount was paid by people who had less than 8 million in annual income, i.e. Like two BSRBs. I guess that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u11	V.E.G. President. In my speech last night with regard to the Senate's work, I discussed the new daylight statistics of the Habitat on child life and the serious fact that about a tenth of children are living under a low standard of living and their participation in organized youth and leisure activities. Most of this problem is related to income and housing problems, including High rent and cost of housing funding. We can improve this situation, and we certainly need to improve the standard of living for those with the lowest incomes and solutions to housing. I can quote family policy and child contracts, commitments to ensure the right of all children to protect, care, and participate in society. A respectable president. With all due respect for all the matters we deal with and are on the agenda of the council, there are agreements and housing agreements, and in my mind the absolute priority when it comes to collective agreements is running out of time, we all suffer with pain. [[Hear, hear.]] It is obvious that the lowest paid value is right. It's clear. It's understandable. The parties are hard to deal with, and their passwords are the same; prices, production, and buying. Production is essential, stable, and buyerpower is maintained, which is a general call for equations, for improvement in rates and a significant increase in the lowest salary. There is no doubt in my mind that we should listen, that we should increase the equation, that we should raise the lowest wage ever, and that we should do most of it. The government has the means to bring in which to solve this dispute. We can stand at the council when the mortgages come in, and the government can do this, and all of us are able to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u12	A respectable president. I'm just gonna talk about the housing. Sadly, in recent decades we have had the goal of encouraging people to be in debt instead of helping them find housing. This has happened with growth reforms and high credit rates. In recent years, improvements from government funds are like the sum of money, and the debt is on less than a year's count, and there is little discussion about it. But on top of that, we have a very special position that we have had here a bank, a special mortgage loan bank, which is stately responsible. The responsibility now, a respected president, is 900 billion dollars. It's one and a half U.S. budget, for example. Nationalization is responsible for 250 million. The situation is now that no one wants to do business with this bank. The entire budget of the apartment loan budget in 2014 was about 6%, if we assume that no one other borrows than the business banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u13	Speak down the banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u14	The loss of a driver is about the same as the cost of operating, 3 billion. And of every cent you borrow, there's five bucks. paid because people don't want their loans at the bank. What we've put in tax dollars since 2009 is 55 billion, exactly in this bank. According to the latest plan of 51 billion, a new Landspike costs. We've put 4 billion more in an apartment loan fund. The saddest part of all this is that we could stop this from happening. We don't have to do this. They have been examined, and there are suggestions and opinions on this. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This is a large amount of money. We need to set priorities, and we need to stop the work of the camp loans. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u15	V.E.G. President. I'm here to make a subject of reviews of the Constitution, which was a great deal of work during the last term. We will remember this magnificent career all along, a national meeting, chosen to be a administrative body, which, unfortunately, was now condemned for technical reasons, to remind me of the fact that the paper was too thin, and then continued working on it after the Council had chosen a new administrative committee. This is followed by a review of Parliamentary Constitutions and others, and that is what I want to do to talk about, along with my opinion of what is one of the greatest vices of the Generals operation, i.e. The long, long, long - term time that can be used to discuss matters, and that it is not possible to schedule the work that is being done in a particular matter, thus creating a plan, as it were. Then I come to what I want to do to make the main subject, i.e. that in the Constitution there may be a law, as do Dan, that a third of the senators can refer to a case that has come in here, and there is a great controversy for the due of the people. I am quite convinced that if this were used in a constitution, this would not often be used, but it would be the problem of a very difficult business with a prime project on a controversial case between government and government position, it will be a solid agreement to make it available because otherwise the case can always be referred to national law. I believe this is one of the most important items of the Board of Directors now. Therefore, when Prime Minister declares that the resource directive is also under way, I am very happy to set the rules that resources are shared. I believe it is very important that this, along with the choice of one third of the senators, enter a legal case. [[The president calls.]] I would like to use this opportunity to encourage members of the board to reflect on this matter and to discuss it with them in their councils so that they can achieve it during this ideal period. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u16	Mr. President. I think it's the highest. The president agrees with me when I say that I don't often cry out, hear me when the forward party has ended. I already did. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson finished his fine talk earlier. I completely agree with him that the most important thing in today's world is to solve the severe damage to our community's housing problem. I encourage the advance party to impress on that matter, and I will support it for fine works there. Never before have we lived in a place where people, especially young people, have found it so difficult to get their feet in the market and rented as they do today. For the first time, it has been difficult for a family whose two earners have low wages but still have loyal jobs that make it difficult to get through payment. I don't think that it has happened before that young people who have received a good education and who are coming out of the educational system will also find themselves at a housing market. So I say, it's the big lesion in society today. We need to put ourselves together to remedy this situation. A few months ago, the president of the Federal Republic of America, Gylfi Arnbjörnsson, said that the government would have to make a strong breach in the housing market. I believe that now that we face more civil unrest than ever before, it is called. There are two things to be done in this community, the government has to deal with housing, and there is the seven suggestions adopted at the Community meeting, as well as I and I give support to the ASI and the labor movement by 300 you. K. Minimum wage. This is a perfect requirement for regrouping with the most and to those who are remembered to be at least the result of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u17	V.E.G. President. Because I haven't had that part in this program many times, about the activities of the council, I decided to use this one space that was empty now and leave it back to me. I wanted this as an explanation for why I would come back here in a speech chair. Now I want to make it part of the labour market, i.e. I'm reminded of a four-day strike. The situation is very difficult in the labour market, there's a big gap between parties. The labor movement has normal requirements for a high increase in minimum wage, up to 300 of you. K, which is large due to the minimum wage today, i.e. 2101⁄220 you're talking about. K. But it is, in my opinion, one of the greatest shames in this society, i.e. The lowest wage that, of course, will also be paid to a pensioner and a pensioner. This morning, I read about the government's finally preparing something to play in the labour agreements to the labour market partners to help with collective agreements. To me, it's very necessary. In such a difficult situation, the government needs to appear. There's been talk of rent payments, and it reminds me of improvements in interest. What I'm going to do as a subject and encourage the members of the government is to agree with the viewpoint expressed by the U.S. chairman of the Continental Ministry, the Age of Árnason, at our recent national meeting, and that I'm reminded of, too, that, i.e. That the state would consider tax wills to those of today's lowest wage. So some years of sunset can be used to meet the job in order to raise the lowest wage in the 300. K. as the employee movement demands. [[The president calls.]] This is what I wanted to promote here in my second speech about the Senate because this is one of the most urgent problems we have to solve today's society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u18	Mr. President. In the beginning of my speech, I want to answer here for me and my party. I'm not known for wanting somebody to have something in my room. There was a strong criticism that the left green had intended to tax the tourism service into killing during the last terms, of course, far from normal. That tourism does not rise under a valuable tax system, as the article does today, is an increase of value to 11% by bickering and the present government. There was a plan to increase the value tax to 14% during the last terms of a lower number than the average job road in the country. But okay, here we are talking about a bill to legalize the law on international development teamwork in Iceland, Iceland. This matter was discussed here all day long, and it goes on to bring Iceland's Development Research Institute to the Ministry of State. The discussion has raised questions about what causes, the purpose of this service, and the purpose of what is considered to be the change to take this institution for many years into the Ministry. It's like the highest. A minister has spoken is not his plan that there will be savings. It should not reduce your activity or reduce your number of people. That was shown in the highest court interview. Minister of State Radio recently felt that development is being promoted. He says, with President's permission: There have been a number of reports on how to carry on developing cooperation. They have all come to the conclusion that it is right to unite this into the Ministry. What I think we're getting out of it is a stronger development team, or such a development team that we're going to join in the Ministry where a multi-sided and two-sided team is working even better than they do today, although that's a good partnership. - So he adds that there will be better use of staff in this office. It is not true that the results of all reports were that it would be right to bring a developing research agency into the Ministry of State. This has been quoted from the 2008 Sigurbourgesdóttir's Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir that leads to the opposite conclusion on these topics and that I will only enter that report in my case. This issue today is based primarily on a report won by Þórir Guðmundsson, director of the Red Cross. I also ask: " Why could this report not be discussed before the General Assembly so far that it would be placed before and even the report Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, even though she was several years old? Why was it not appropriate to include these reports at the General Assembly and enter the National Affairs Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee? Then, after the discussion of these reports, the Council would come to a conclusion and give a reputation. As a result, a minister would weigh the steps to take. I think it would have been a lot more democratic and more people would be able to come up with this case because it's not a personal matter at all. Instead, it is such a matter that we should try to proselytize ourselves and find a parapolitic conclusion in it. It's not long since we had a discussion at the General Report on sea cables, took it into a business committee, and passed it on. A minister has not made a decision about what he will do in the following case. I just thought it would be a very professional practice to work this way and let the General arrange for a job to look into and reevaluate the best way to have a developing working agency in the future, whether it's good to carry it on the way it is, or to take it into the Ministry, or to do what people would like to do. What is stated on page 16? 8 The bill supports the role of this institution, as follows: THESSI has done a very good job in the field, so it is noted, and it has made many changes in independent assessments. In this context, however, it should be noted that the YSSI methodology and the role of the Agency in the implementation of development projects have made several changes over the years. Thus, the implementation has increasingly been shifted to national parties in Iceland's cooperation countries, such as national governments. Is this change in terms of international declarations of the success of developing cohesion focusing on the establishment of the natives in the development sector. In view of the kind of food presented here, people ought to beat this institution, defend it, and allow it to continue to grow and flourish as it has been developing. We are aware of the major cuts that occurred at the Ministry of State in 2013 and are now being heard in many lands by the great cutting. Is it really true that men are trying to gain capital support in the Ministry to put down the pain that resulted from the major cuts? You cannot help but ask yourself, " Why do I not see enough evidence to bring this great institution into the Ministry of State? ' We also know the conference of operations for development, and speaking in this way is a disgrace to us. Fortunately, much less think. This is the case with members of Congress, but these attitudes still exist, and we must do everything we can to achieve the objective that Iceland will become a nation of nations and reach 0.7% of its national product for development support. Today, more than 4 billion are being joined by this group, and it was observed by the DAC committee, known as OECD, that the largest weakness is that there is a lack of surveillance of the operation. I think it's right to agree, of course, we need to be careful to monitor this operation to make the best use of these funds. But would it be good for the operation to go under the Ministry, to be carried out, and on the same hand as policy, implementation and surveillance? I don't think it's a good thing, and I don't think it's the same with the modern administrations to bring it in that way. It has also been shown during the discussion that there is a delay in the implementation of the Commission for the National Reexamination and the report of the Development Committee and OECD, i.e. It's an equal circulation. I think this case is so growing that we are not so angry at beating it through. I think there must be a bigger issue on top of it. Although I may not agree with many matters that the government has planned to pass, the project is still there. Of course, you hope that you will begin to take part in urgent matters that are relevant to the public in the country but are not struggling with institutions that have shown that you have worked very professionally, developed their activities, and been within the budget. As they say, somewhere in a good way, there's nothing to tell, sober every day, but there's probably another way. I looked into SigurbourgeirdSigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir on these matters, why she felt that the Bureau should not be put down or brought into the Ministry. I'm going to quote the report, which says, with the permission of the president: There has been a long history of problems with the use of two - sided and multi - sided development policies. To solve the problem, the proposal has been made to intervene in the Ministry of State. This would result in the unity and unity of the international development team and in one hand within the Ministry. Here in these suggestions for a minister, this way is contrary. This is in view of the fact that a number of general management and management projects involved in the implementation of two- sided cooperation are not compatible with the role and work environment of recruitment, but especially with the effects such partners can have on policy working in the media. I think this is a good reason not to submit this institution to the State Department. The writer goes on to propose, with permission of the president: The Iceland Development Agency will continue as an independent agency. Her role as a professional agency under the Ministry of State will be enhanced. I agree to watch this from the viewpoint of advancing the way it is today. It says: THESSI would still be on the subject of management and management, a special institution heard under the Ministry of State. However, there would be a change in the relationship between TheSSI and the Ministry that the Director of TheSSI now bore a professional responsibility for the implementation of two - side development cooperation with the Ministry's Directorship. I'd get them as an institution of greater professional importance to the Ministry. I would be very interested in knowing if it's the highest. This report was passed by a minister when he decided to make such a decision. I think it's too much flumbrush to the highest level. Minister when he drives it through so hard. Today's staff of the Development Agency have been very afraid to step forward and express themselves on this subject, which may not be strange. It is said that this should not cost anything and that the current staff will be offered comparable jobs at the Ministry. But I'm also asking myself, " Is that what I'm saying? People with their rights and comparable jobs are not always comparable. I'm afraid there's something going to be heard there when it comes time to collect this institution in a drawer at the State Department. Then there must be some differences, and people have rights beyond the fact that they can only be patched into the Ministry without having the right to correct their terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. There was a problem. A senator to find professional evidence that it should be a way to install a development research agency into the Ministry. Hv. A senator was struggling to find that evidence, and he argued that it was not advisable to do so. Has a what? A senator wondered if there is absolutely no professional basis for such a course. Rather, is it financial? First of all, the Ministry of State has cut down a lot. In 2014, the department's office, there was a lot more than other departments, so getting together at the Ministry and covering its assigned tasks, has had to be dealt with. In addition, one of these 111 proposals is just to examine the development community and the connection to the Ministry. After this discussion here yesterday, I agree that there are financial reasons, that this way has gone before the Ministry, but that it is not professional. I'm asking why. A senator will agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u20	Mr. President. Yes, it's the big question whether you're trying to develop a professional function of such an important organisation. Or are men just thinking over debet and Crevices how can a better puzzle be combined with the money that goes over the top of the foreign service? I'm beginning to think that this is the main purpose of this, unfortunately, because I feel that there is no evidence to support this institution for itself and for the projects it's supposed to be doing. I don't feel that there's enough logic to back it up, so I'm afraid that's what it is. One member of the government's economy requirement stated that there was something involved in the pursuit and healing of much damage for the Ministry of State in 2013. It would be possible to make better use of this funds within the Ministry. I'm afraid it will not be, but it will be, contrary to the kind of work that such an end, I believe the administrative community is inconsistency that it's all under one hat. The administration is not to be drawn up institutions that are supposed to be independent, surveillance and otherwise. In this case, who should be in charge of self-monitoring? Will it ever be trustworthy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. There's something else I find interesting in this bill, there's a lot of talk about parapolitic cooperation, and historically, it's a tradition for cross - lattice cooperation, and, fortunately, it's been that way. It will be discussed in Article 3. The bill, then offered only five members of the committee, mentioned in Article 3. This is clearly not expected to come from any political party because there are six members of the General Assembly. What does it want? A senator says about this so - called cross - political approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u22	Mr. President. Yeah, 3rd. The bill tells us that five members of the General Assembly should be appointed and elected by the Council. I couldn't agree more. A senator, this makes you wonder what democracy is going on there. Is it not true to have it open to you that it is certain that it will be represented by any political party in the Council? Would it not be so much normal to specify this number? Of course, this may change from time to time, sometimes five political parties are members of the General Assembly and sometimes fewer or more. If we senators cannot unite in these matters, we are beyond our reach. I feel like the highest. The minister of foreign affairs should set a good example in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u23	Mr. President. I was very interested in listening to the exchange of opinions that took place between two senators earlier. It was reported that at the beginning there had been 111 economist provisions from the notorious and multiplicity of the management team that the link between the Development Agency and the Ministry of State should be specifically considered. After this discussion, I am pretty convinced that then, at the time, the decision was made to settle the Agency in this group. This could not be said, for there was to be some sort of logical basis for it. He wasn't strong, but he came out, and I know he's been shredded in this discussion. At the beginning of the government, however, it was decided that it was an institution that could easily be taken off. I think that's the point. That's why it's coming to the highest level. A minister of state who was taken a bit thoroughly into the carat exactly by the cutting committee earlier in his career here and finds it difficult to defend this evil cause. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. That's my opinion. Hv. A senator made a publicity check. Of course, people have wondered who should supervise the Ministry if all is involved. Well, that's not been a problem. V.E.G. The minister of state is rolling in his face today against two possibilities, not one but two, which shows that it has not been a problem for the Ministry. He also spoke of a special office within the Ministry, which should be self-investigated by the Ministry. Then I'd like to ask. A member of the council to see if she has read Article 8. this bill for monitoring. There's not much to say. What do members of the Parliament do when they read such an incomprehensible and unexplored arrangement? Well, they go to the report, and what does it say? It says: The article does not need an explanation. So they don't know where the surveillance is, have not thought of it, and bring the bill where one of the most important things is completely out of the air. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. This is exactly what I did earlier on the professional team called OECD Committee, which said that the biggest weakness is the lack of control of the operation. There's a lot of money, and, of course, it's very important that the monitoring factor is okay, even as if this should move into the Ministry, where policy, implementation, and monitoring should be on the same hand. I can't see that that's in accordance with existing administrative law. Hv. A senator pointed to 8 paragraph. which reads: ▪ The government's policy on international development cooperation, as illustrated by 5. g., should be subject to regular follow-up and assessment by an independent person. Who are these independents? Like what? A senator explains that this article does not need an explanation. But we demand that this article be explained, to the highest level. A minister will explain this article if, for some reason, it has fallen between a ship and a dock to do so with the contract of this case. It is extremely serious to intend to take this institution in one piece, put it in place, and then simply refer to the blank who should be monitored for the operation. It doesn't have an opinion, and it can't be acceptable. I think it's just this, and I can see that it's not ready. V.E.G. The minister should pull this matter back, lie under the coat, and think the whole thing over again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u25	Mr. President. I'm going to underline one of the key points of the confusion found in this bill, and that's, "Histv." Ministers under the bill should be responsible for the implementation of policy within their Ministry. And who is to be held accountable and under surveillance? He's his underboss. Do you need anything more to say? Because of this, the government felt that it was necessary to submit the administrative assessment of the State Re-evaluation of these plans. Why? Because it has been published for 25 years that policies should be understood as being carried out and under follow-up. Hence, over 25 years people have been taking agencies or institutions out of their budget. There's no example of an institution being accepted into the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] This is contrary to all the principles presented by the State Accounting. What kind of management is this, and what kind of nonsense is it of the fine Presidentship not to stop this discussion and wait until the Kingdom Accounting Report? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u26	Mr. President. Sadly, the nonsense has many brothers and many sisters, and we know it. This alone is reason enough to accept the case again, for it is neglected. Of course, you are to wait for the administration to be undertaken by Government Accounting. Each of us knows that this is impossible. Did they assume that the road was taken into the Ministry of Homeland or that agencies were usually taken into the Ministry of State? Would it not be possible to back up a number of other factors in the same way, that money, human power, and everything would be much more useful? But we are in the 21st century, the highest. Secretary of state, and that's not what people do today. You're supposed to be working professionally, and it doesn't make any sense. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u27	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion as far as it gets, but there's no way that you'll be half-headed about the state of foreign affairs and how they're doing this week after week at the council. It must be said as it is that there is no great waste or great dignity over that lawsuit for the second time in a very short time. Unfortunately, we've been allowed to observe over the past few weeks how the government's inexperience of experience, especially the highest. Secretary of State, has led men to take letters of literature to the foreign countries, which were without condemnation to the general sovereignty of the people, quite amazingly made in reality in the foreign affairs of the nation, and to the fact that there was no understanding of what was being done in our fellow workers, no understanding of it, but in the government, or in the government, and so much less at the government's position in the council. In fact, there was no support for the foreign minister's actions on the case. He simply seemed to be left alone on the flow cutter by his companions after receiving some sort of yellow light, to send a letter that he did not understand himself; the recipient understood it less, and the other government ministers did not support in any way. That expedition became a natural cause for laughter and wonder at international matters, did nothing materially, and gave us nothing but mistrust between the council and the government after the tragic marches in that case. Then, we can see directly following just another expedition, which truly is no serious mission to the General, which is, of course, a administrative bill to legalize the adjustment of the law that enters the council and be treated as a matter of course. While it is not an attempt to substantiate development as a paper from the Ministry of State, it seems equally clear that the proposals are on the same basis, perhaps primarily a lack of experience, which leads to the issue of action at the General Assembly. There have been repeated efforts to convince several foreign ministers to present this matter, the highest. The current minister of foreign affairs who is forced to bring this into the council, as bad as it is in all places. I can discuss it better later in my talk. What follows is that, as in the letter letter, foreign minister is absolutely alone in the matter. Although he was permitted by the government to make such a project, it seems that there is no support for these purposes. No ministers have given support to the expedition. The president of the State Department is either absent or does not want to express any support for the matter, and it is difficult to see that the majority of support is involved. The State Department, however, violates the good solid solidarity that was stressed, including the U.S. when the current maximum is present. Financial and economic minister, president of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, sat on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and we gained a good crosspolitan solidarity as to the order of those matters. Of course, the same is true of an ambitious plan for increased contributions to development working here that we did not achieve over many years ago, but the economic collapse was, unfortunately, a failure to support us. It is, in fact, amazing that such a problem can be screwed up, such as Iceland's development team with other countries with the enmunds at its highest level. Minister has succeeded. In itself, developing cooperation should be a positive matter. This is our decision to make it happen to assist other nations. This is not a matter of public service or legal obligation to perform a certain service or in any way that may be disputed in internal politics. It's a group of paintings that are approaching a miracle that will allow one minister to have less than half of the terms of failure. But the mark of the advance party in this subject is, in fact, not very expansive. After meeting all categories for ambitious plans to increase contributions to development cooperation, it is the chairman of the financial committee, the senator of the Agency, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who makes contributions that these expenses should be reduced, i.e. that we should not, though, contribute to the poorest nations in the world, where the financial resources of doing enormous things for many people can greatly increase. Despite the economic pressures we face, however, we still have enormous natural resources and are blessed among the most prosperous nations in the world. We hunt nearly ten pounds [10 kg] of fish for every human child in the country every day of the week, round the year. As long as we maintain that great advantage, it is certain that we enjoy so much prosperity that we must emphasize evolutionary cooperation, evaporation, and mediating of what we have also learned. in the fields of the seafront, in environmental energy, and in other ways that can contribute to the peace and advancement of the world. Though we are a small nation, we are required to be large in these matters. Even more tragic is the case when it reaches the highest level. Secretary of State has the greatest ideas in developing cooperation to bring down the European Development Agency. If this is what the Agency would like to do in this category, to reduce donations to these deserving cases, and to put down the Agency that concentrates on them, it may not be strange at all. The secretary of state is quite alone in this matter, as is the letter written earlier in the month. This is not a policy that anyone would particularly like to support or policy that is likely to be able to achieve a transnational harmony. It is quite amazing that a minister who is at peace with a group of lawsuits, such as evolutionism, which are not quarreling, a minister who sits with this sect disorganized under the circumstances, but in the government that is relevant to the framework, he is in a state of great unpopularness and has had to take many blows in a short period of time, and most merits, in fact, should have the initiative to contribute to the debate of evolutionary cooperation. Then you might ask, " Is there no limit to the extent of the peace of litigation in the land of this government? ' Is it not even possible to work on bread for the hungry world in relative peace here on earth for that government? Or what runs the highest. A minister of foreign affairs to treat this issue? Why does he want to break free from the peace that was able to create this activity and the broad solid solidarity that was able to produce in it? Of course, it is very important for the jury that in spite of the great and intense debate that has taken place, at least in the wake of the economic breakdown, there are at least all as one group on this vital issue party. This alone is important for developing cooperation, and for this reason it is against the entire group of people that the minister of this proposal damages the good solid solidarity of the union. This suggestion is bad for many other reasons. We have been through quite recent trials. Perhaps we have not been able to learn all the things that are possible, but we are to be commended for one thing; I think we can almost all agree that the General Report was a good initiative on the part of the council. There she was moved by our most skilled experts to settle over how we should have handled matters better in politics, administration, legal matters, business affairs, and international ties. We received a report of great agreements, a report of the Nine - Investigation Committee of the World Council of II, both that went through what had been severed and also through what we needed to correct. And what was it that we needed to do? I'd like to mention two of the most aggressive features that the World Council's Research Committee emphasized that we needed to fix. We had to reduce Ministerial Training, and we were to promote a surveillance role because we were overcrowded by the Ministers of Ministers, the general authority of their case, the one on the other and the other, the lack of control and maintenance of the administration was the main defect in us that caused us to lose control and that this was a disaster. What is being done with this issue after we have agreed here on 63: 10, with 63 joint votes, with a resolution to the proposals and emphasis laid out in the General Commission report, and this is a cover - up here? Yeah, it's coming to the top. The minister of the State of State, after signing a vote on the Council of Congress that was based on a report by the Generalist Commission, suggests that his power will be greatly enhanced by just importing this institution into the Ministry, the European Development Organization of Iceland, thus increasing its authority and the Ministry, and immediately, as well. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson shaved well earlier, by the same procedure, reduces the vital monitoring needed to carry out all functions, and most certainly development cooperation. It really needs to monitor development cooperation, for it is important in the way money is devoted, how policy is used, how plans are made, because in developing cooperation, even more than in other areas of activity, it can become a big deal from the money we put into it, and it can become extremely small and even less than nothing. Whether they are at fault, they can do more harm than good. All of us know of a project that has gone too far for management costs and costs but that is far too little for those who are actually going to receive it. Taking it into the Ministry no longer has the ability to monitor this activity. This is changing according to the strong tradition we have had, and it has been mainly to reduce the number of Ministers in the Icelandic community, i.e. Strong independent organizations outside the council. It is not wise to unite every government agency in its Ministry of Education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I can agree with much of what it said. What I ask myself is that in connection with this bill, the professional basis for the decision remains. We certainly have the report by Þórir Guðmundsson as quoted here, but we also have earlier reports, such as Sigurgeirsdóttir Beautirirdirdóttir. Hence, it is up to us Parliamentaries to make a decision out of reason and understanding. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar about two things: Does he remember some examples of this union with the Ministry? That certainly is quite an unusual arrangement as far as I can get next, considering the general development of a administrative agency. Like what? A senator pointed out that we have a single hand in meeting for observation. I know what you're doing. A senator of some sort, or does he have a similar experience in mind? The other question I'd like to ask you. A senator in a short period of time will deal with the council, for as I have sensed the discussion, which is, in fact, a fairly uniform, as it were. Government officials have chosen not to participate in it, agreeing that it is important to strengthen the assembly's entrance to the seminary. How can you tell? A senator for the better part of the council? Does this seem to be the right way to be suggested in the bill, where it is suggested that the Committee of Meetings be at least twice a year with members of the industry, colleges, or that they see other ways to improve the arrival of the council? At any rate, they are the driving force. Councilmen here have agreed that there is a need for improvement. It would be exciting to know what the members of the board think, but I ask why. Senator on this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u29	A respectable president. Now, as to the second question, the coming of the council, I think there must be much more settled there, and the coming of the council needs to be stronger. It would be possible to cooperate with it on the Council Committee even if the council itself had to be replaced. But that's the first question. A senator who actually exposes the matter, for the professional basis just doesn't exist. This case is so lacking that the minister is not looking for the results of the report requested by the General and is not following the report National Review, which, though, would be a natural professional basis for decision making. I think the problem is precisely in the absence of the administrative element here in the debate, because the minister's only finding that there is no need for all professional discussion about the matter, not just to create some solidarity in the community and between categories, it just seems to be a total discrepancy between the administrations and the members of the administrations, because there seems to be no senator, neither the forward or the independent party, to be a party of the highest rank. Minister of this matter, or speak here for the case. Since the minister has not achieved the matter in his own body of Congress, not in the administrative part, it is more natural that he has created the cross - political solidarity and the professional basis and reconciliation in the general community and in the groups that are involved in these matters that are necessary for my knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u30	Mr. President. Yeah, I think we're gonna do it. A senator hit that nail on his head. It is the professional basis you have considered, for although the aims are in themselves, to improve these policies and effectiveness and so forth, there are no examples that have been mentioned in this discussion in order to be lacking in the effectiveness of the development network. Of course, you will wonder: " If the situation is good, why make big changes? Hv. A candidate also mentioned a need for interpolitic agreement on issues such as this, and the last time these issues were revised, a considerable work was put to achieve that cross - political reconciliation. I'd like to ask you what. Finally, a senator: How does he react? A senator realizes that this case will continue here at the council when 1st. End? What changes does he consider necessary? Is it simply best to drop out of the matter at some point, wait for the inspection, or see how some adjustments could be made to correct the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u31	A respectable president. I now cannot imagine that in the few days that remain of the spring council, it is possible to work with this incomplete case to be useful. It would have been best not to spend the time of the Council in 1st. of this, but since it is started, it may be worth completing, allowing the case to go to a committee and send it out to get a response to it. But I think that no more should the matter be spoken of than at any time. The minister may then examine the procedure and consider whether he is willing to try again to throw such a bomb into this group of subjects of good solidarity. I think that if he thinks more about it next time and tries to learn from experience, this case will not come back to the council, it will be a bad thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u32	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. I've been reading only the review that comes from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. It says, by permission of the president: The aim of the bill is to promote increased efficiency and efficiency in the management of Iceland's international development team and to improve the policy of the seminary. Moreover, it says: The change is that by achieving a better overall view of the problem party, it will be easier to shape Iceland's policies and priorities and to implement its policy more targeted and practical policies. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with that diagnosis and if not, why?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. It also gives me the opportunity to respond to that part of questions. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, whom I couldn't cope with earlier and find hard to tell if I know any example of this being done, that an independent agency was accepted into the Ministry of Education. I don't know if there's any way to say that it was the case when the Defense Department was laid down, but I think that either of these arguments are valid. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen was taking care of in general or not relevant. I don't think they mean anything. Is it appropriate for them to accept the office of the tax investigator into the Ministry of finance, as the source of this report? Is it appropriate for them to import the government tax manager into the Ministry of finance? Do they apply to the development of the road into the Ministry of Internal Affairs? Land hospital, his administration into the Ministry of Health? Of course, you might try to reason with them in the same way that this would be the government in one place, but obviously it's not a good organization because it means that they are being brought together. We need strong surveillance. It's supposed to be in the plot. Then we need strong independent institutions who have the means to set a policy that will make the best of our money because good policy can save so much money and make so much money, much better. That is why we should cultivate Icelandic tradition of strong independent organizations outside of recruitment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u34	Mr. President. I'm going to continue to read from this bill. The aim of the legislation shows that the purpose of Iceland's entire organization of development is to implement government policies and aims as most effective for economics. Only by moving the project into one hand, the organization is being simplified. I wonder if this is the problem, if there's any planning problem, whether they have the problem of simply not being able to plan well enough, which may be a common Icelandic problem. Could it be possible to cope with that problem in any way other than this radical operation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u35	A respectable president. The senator may mention the password in the discussion, the problem. You have to ask, "What's the problem? " Why is it coming to the top? Foreign minister on a white horse at the council with this bill and ruin all peace? Is it not some amazing problem that the minister is dealing with with with by his painter? A respectable president. There's no problem. As far as I can see, the European Development Agency has done a great job in a number of projects in a number of countries that have really enjoyed cooperation with the Development Agency. So I have no problem at all, and I think the minister is absolutely unnecessary in trying to fix things that are not right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u36	A respectable president. I would like to thank the senator for his speech and concerns. There is an extensive and excellent report under this bill, although it is of a unique nature. I would have liked to have more on my own, I think it would be best for the case, but the report will address both the organization and the content of the development team. I have joined them in the Developmental Cooperation Institute, which made comments on the report and found the lack of a so - called study question, i.e. what purpose should be applied, and what methodology should be used to answer if they had been reached. As noted in the case of all of us here, a developing cohesion agency - it has been measurable and clearly visible. I ask the senator if he agrees with them. We were talking about the human race, the people who work there, and the senator mentioned what had been learned in the field. Now, the task manager's positions will be expected to be laid down, the ones that have been in the field, and have become rather few already. There is concern that defenses against corruption and other forms of corruption will become more difficult when people drift away. I'd like to ask if the Senator agrees with me. There's an idea to further reduce the number of countries. There's now three of them. Counts 'em out. For example, if you had to close one country, would a senator feel that a further reduction could be challenging? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u37	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator what's going on with the report? I'd like to say, though, about the report that it is performed by a member who has experience in developing cooperation and has valuable experience from there, but it is only one point of view on the subject in one direction. Simply put, there are other important views that are vital, and the minister's work is, of course, to produce such views and to promote the discussions and development of different ideas, which, with hard work and hard work, may lead to oneness in the steps that can come up with as many viewpoints as possible and guarantee the best solidarity. I think it is only natural to expect ministers to work on important issues that are stressed as a good political agreement, but not just to bring them into the council, as they throw out letters abroad, apparently without considering the rest of the matter or what it will lead or over the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u38	A respectable president. One of the things I talked about last night and not everyone liked it was that I didn't find the Ministry particularly efficient, without my planning to criticize employees for advice or anything like that. The number of budgets has grown considerably and was cut off at the end of the budget, not in the past, but in the past. As a result, our numbers have grown. These are issues that need to be solved relatively quickly, but not slower, as if I were to worry about what happened when this was getting away from the scene. Last night I discussed the mission of the State Department as the primary interest center for Iceland in other countries. Here we are dealing with the interests of the poorest people in the world and with the reasons for the poor, not the poor. I think that's a little bit of a dominant in the report. I'm asking if the senator thinks so or if he's not worried about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u39	A respectable president. I'm not worried that there's no work to be done in the plot. I don't think that's what worries me but that's what's happening. A senator mentioned in his previous answer, which is already a financial donation like these, closer to political authority, closer to the minister. This, of course, increases the risk of corruption, especially in a case like this, since there is a lot of room to give money to partners, companies and individuals on a project that sometimes is difficult to assess, and sometimes it is difficult to control. When we have a recent example, in fact from a ministry other than the Council of Government, of making hundreds of millions of dollars of contracts with one of our best friends, there is a natural reason to worry that we are not a mature democratic society in order to impose such funds closer to a politically appointed minister than at present. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u40	Mr. President. We are here discussing the development of a research agency into the Ministry of State, an institution that has worked since 1981, and has made a good impression on various development projects that it has conducted. I like it like the rest of us. Senators who have spoken before try to figure out what it's like to take that institution and treat it in this way. To do that, Mr. President, I'd like to grab a report with the bill in three places because I'm trying to figure out what the Ministry's viewpoint is that has been criticized a great deal. I'm gonna start with that. On page 18. 5 of the bill says, by permission of the President: Despite changes in recent years, progress in overall development can be achieved, and it is clear that there is still considerable scope for improving coordination. A more dynamic, flexible, and cohesive approach to the media can be achieved by deportation. In the context of Iceland's Member States for the development of the National Economic and Development Committee (OECD), DEC, in 2013, a team of professional teams under the Commission took a special look at the development of Iceland's international development team showing in Iceland's transport to Member States. The results of this report were positive, and it showed that Iceland's development team is based on a solid and professional basis. The results are discussed in this analysis, although in principle they were very positive. In the following reviews and indications there were an external expert, Þórir Guðmundsson, assigned to investigate methodology, organization and procedures for the implementation of Iceland's Developmental Team. He was commissioned to give suggestions and indications of improvement and change, if needed in his view. It was noted that there was a need to establish a strategy for targeted policies, policies and implementation and to organize monitoring and internal measures. On this report, the bill is then built and the report is referred to as evidence is presented to follow the procedure recommended by the bill. Then it says on page 18. 8 In a paper with the bill, with the permission of the President: Since all development cooperation is on one hand, increasing the power of projects, improving flexibility and coordination, and preventing policy overlap and implementation. In addition, there is a reduction in successful management and long-term dual-acting management, leading to an increase in economic efficiency. A more simple and more targeted organization will increase the likelihood that Iceland's goals and priorities in international development cooperation will be achieved and will result in more efficient development cooperation. A respectable president. I think it's very important that we deliver all government activities, so it's efficient and that there's no biplication, etc. At first glance, you feel that this is such a reasonable goal, but when you begin to consider how this conclusion begins to work on the two masks. When I'm at the highest. The minister of the State was announcing the arrival of the bill to the council was quoted in the media, by permission of a president: There have been a number of reports on how to carry on developing cooperation. They have all come to the conclusion that it is right to unite this into the Ministry. What I think we're getting out of it is a stronger development team, or such a development team that we're going to join in the Ministry where a multi-sided and two-sided team is working even better than they do today, although that's a good partnership. That's where the law says. Secretary of State that it's just all reports that indicate it's the best way to do this. When it is done, other voices begin to be heard. Sigurgeirsdóttir, Lóctor of the Management Board at the University of Iceland's State, says that the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is wrong regarding the evidence he gives regarding his decision to submit to the development community in the present picture. She speaks very clearly and asserts it. The 2008 Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir winner made an assessment of the work of the Development Agency, which suggests that proposals are highest. Minister of state to put the Agency into the present picture is a big step back. It points out that in the administrative district, separation of various administrative practices, such as policy, implementation and monitoring, should be emphasised. That's exactly what's been discussed at 8. The bill here earlier today, as well as in yesterday's discussion but 8 par. It reads: ▪2. A sentence. Section 8. The law says it's the operation of government policy on international development, cremation. 5. g., should be subject to regular follow-up and assessment by an independent person. When we look at an explanation for each article, the explanation is paragraph 8. Pretty bad, because it says, by permission of the President: No explanation is needed. There I disagree, as do other people. Senators who have spoken earlier today, because we need to get an explanation of this. By entering the Ministry of Development, the project has entered the Ministry, which should then be monitored by the Agency, causing the situation to fail. Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir says in a media interview. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is promoting a large central management with this as well as an opacity in the administrations, which is not in the spirit of modern government, and by no means in the spirit of the team's policy of cooperation, 6.5 says Sigurbjörg in some place. So it's speechless to the changes the bill is preaching. As we have seen in the discussions about the subject today and in a paper with the bill, it is based on the highest standard. Ministers decide on the central outcome of the report by Þórir Guðmundsson on the future development process. The staff of the Development Agency made serious comments on the report saying that a minister's proposal was premature and unlikely to improve progress and unclear what goals they should meet. Of course, it is normal when such strong criticism is presented that questions are asked by many, and as a result, the chairmans of the Council of Congress have requested that the assessment of the National Review of the Development Research Institute to be better based on the professional evidence for this change or that the conclusion is unscrupulous. The representatives of all the government groups have also requested a report on the organization of development cooperation. This all happens because so many questions remain. The request that representatives of all the government groups have requested is requested in 21 teams. I don't have time to go over them, but this shows that there's still a lot of questions left. A respectable president. I've been thinking about this, listening to discussion, and listening to the highest. Minister, I'm afraid no one has a problem. The senator participated in the discussion. Asking whether the bill really has support within the council is a question. Þórir Guðmundsson is now a valued man, and he must have used his report well, but there is not enough report to support so much changes that have also been criticized with evidence from among them. Directors. Then you wonder, " Why are we doing this here? ' I've come to that conclusion, and I'd love to hear it at the top. A minister here at the end of the discussion, that, in fact, there are no professional reasons for this change, they are financial because the Ministry has had to cut down very much. After the right administration has been given in operations involving the Ministry of State, which has had to be cut down more than any other Ministry. V.E.G. In 2014, a minister arrived at a council hall when a budget bill was being discussed, protesting what was done to the Ministry at the highest level. The government had already given its blessing on funding to the Ministry, but much of the legal committee did not offer them suggestions and did not accept any suggestions from the government. That's what it says. paritaprevir On December 9, 2013, Vigdís Hauksdóttir 9, in Morning Radio Channel 2 were discussed with the government's plans to reduce expenses for child development by 600 million. K. and reduce expenses for development support, as part of winding down the nonsense being going on during the last term. ▪ It's just the beginning. A senator, chairman of the legal committee, to be brought to a new government. This is the policy, and this course will not be taken. I think it's actually a little clever at the highest. Minister, just taking the suggestion No. 24 for the eco-efficiency group, which is referred to as the Ministry and Development Group, what the eco-efficiency team suggests, will be developed for a future policy on the planning and management of foreign services and will be regarded as development of the Agency and the Ministry of Development in this regard. I think it's just the best way. Secretary of State to keep employees inside the Ministry to make it possible to support operations in the Ministry and legal projects and to adjust a bit to the economy and to a greater part of the legal committee that has decided to cut down in the Ministry beyond any other agency. I may now be wrong, but this is the only conclusion that there is to me that is based on evidence. But running an institution that has been judged so well for the 34 years she's been working into the Ministry with such weak arguments presented in the report is just not credible to me, I think there are financial reasons, not professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I was very interested in how she ended her talk. It made it appear that the reason for all of this was at the highest level. Secretary of state. So I've had experience with what? A senator says she's more than not right. She's a former senior. Secretary of finance who now knows a number of factors involved in the use of money and dollars and other sources of various decisions. I'd like to hear better from what. A senator with regard to the 24th motion of the economist group. If this is now so. So, then, a minister has actually deteriorated to the decision he has come to see as it has been, would it not have been easier just to follow this proposal and save 10 million of the report made to the Ministry, where the report did not have any democratic discussion at the council? Would it not have been possible to go straight to work, saying: "This is our will at the State Department, and my will as Minister to do this, and save all of this, because men do not employ professional practices? There is now another report that presents a very different conclusion than the report by the son of Þórir Guðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u42	A respectable president. The economic group made 111 suggestions presented on November 11, 2013. Of course, the aim of the project was to save, but also to adjust and improve the development of the government, thus allowing this to fall under the aim of the economy by diagnosis in the bill. But the 24th motion says this, with the permission of a president: ▪ Secretary of State against a future policy on the organization and the trades of foreign service. Among other things, they can look to the Department of State Association interaction, other recruitments, Iceland Institutes, Development Groups, and emissary office. The development of neighboring foreign services will be examined, looking for examples of innovation that can improve efficiency and success. Þórir Guðmundsson was taken to write the report on a second report, and it's probably worth every cent, but I did not intend to doubt it, even though it cannot live up to the adjustment proposed on the bill. However, as reported in a review from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there are now 40 employees in the Developmental Research Institute and no such procedure is expected and changes in housing are also not expected. In other words, after the change, they're supposed to become members of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u43	Mr. President. We need to ask ourselves, " Should I not have reports like this in the General Assembly?'And they enter professional committees and receive professional coverage, according to the report on the cable presented at the highest level. Prime Minister and we discussed and concluded. A minister has not yet decided how he will make that decision? Is this not the perfect choice for us generals to discuss the matter, and the professional committee to have access to the case before a minister makes such a dramatic decision? Six times in the past 20 years, an attempt has been made to bring down the development community of Iceland, six times, this good institution. Is it not always a matter of trying to get money out of this institution that should actually focus on its work? Of course, money is always at hand within counsel and everywhere. Do we not need to maintain the independence of such an institution that has so much meaning and function? Who thinks so? A senator to be the best man to monitor the operation once she's joined the Ministry of State? Is the Ministry of State supposed to be here all around, doing media dating, execution and self-monitoring? How on earth can that happen in modern government? Well, maybe. A senator answered what was once the highest. Secretary of finance? Is she going to be a former financial minister who wants to see some agency come into that office?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u44	A respectable president. First of all, we have a discussion about reports at the General Assembly. I think there's more to it than talking about large business reports, and developing teamwork is certainly one of them. Governments have endeavored to maintain cross political agreements for developing cooperation, and it has somehow succeeded, from what I understand. A paper with the bill that we will discuss is on page 18. 11 In fact, the importance of interpolitic agreements on the seminary and wide consultation with other stakeholders was expressed. It is said to gather attitudes and accept them and, as it were, actions under the seminary. However, because of the speciality of this group, the report emphasizes the importance of members of the Parliament being able to monitor the development team, according to a report of Article 3. The bill that deals with the committees in which five members of the General Assembly are expected to be elected by the Allied Council of Development Committee. But there's only five agents. Of course, I think it's important to know what it's like to think that if this is supposed to be a paradox, there should be one from every body of Congress sitting at the General Assembly. But there's only five agents there, and maybe there's supposed to be a relative selection of members of Congress, but what do we know about that? It needs to be discussed with us how this cross - political approach within the proposed committee should be when some group is left out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. At the end of that talk, I quietly asked myself, for it seemed remarkable to me. paritaprevir For example, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, a member of the Council of the United States, wondered that this arrangement may be primarily for financial reasons. This would be meeting the demands of the government economy, for it is of great interest that the proposals were presented here by a great trumpet blast. But this may have been less recent, and the government may be about to start with the process again. Part of it was, like a whisk. A senator noted, to revise the arrangements of foreign service, and it may well be true that there is someone on the verge of achieving a certain purpose - not economy, for already there has been a great deal of profit and more outdoing the human beings in both places. Of course, at the council, it must be made clear here that this is not the reason but that the reasons for what is suggested in the bill are professional, as is attributed to a report. So I think it lies upon us who are seated on the Foreign Affairs Committee to ask for an explanation. A senator has reported from the highest level. A minister did not see why he would come up here and contradict this saying, which certainly raises questions as to whether he simply cannot see the reason why it is the right theory. A senator go with you. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who serves on a financial committee, as I told you earlier, what her assessment of the status of foreign service is. She mentioned earlier that it was cut down more than it did in other parts of the administrative system. Have we gone too far - and I quote a greater portion at the Council, for this was objected to both the smaller and the highest. A minister of his time - in the cutting down of the foreign service and who can't afford to live up to what we are supposed to do there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u46	Mr. President. Of course, we've gone over it at the highest. Secretary of State and State Department officials and how the business is going. The government has taken the laws of the law as they are, and then they have tailored their activities to the laws of the law and are actually doing well in this regard. But the canal was intense and harsh. For example, in 2014 a few hundred million dollars were taken into account because an employee failed trust, and the Ministry was given it, it matters, and must have suffered the loss of the operation when it only happens directly to the Ministry. It had not been recognized that a previous act had been made, and more of the legal committees actually went against the government's laws in this regard. I find it hard to say: "Yes, now it's the situation, so we're just not doing it, it's hard to say. Those serving as foreign ministers have a very important work to do, and they are doing it well with this narrow offer. The number of staff has decreased very much, and so on. and, of course, it was in need of protection when we were defending a state's debt of fall, but then it continues after we have straightened out the cow. So I cannot help but compliment the Ministry on how we have been able to follow the laws of the law, even though I am not judgmental of whether we have gone too far in the incision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with her that foreign service has a very important role, a role that is not always popular in public discussions. It is rather popular or more popular to talk about this as something unnecessary, but, of course, we rely on contact with the foreign countries, this little nation, we've been doing it since we got here, since we've been studying the country, and we've always had a lot of contact with the world's population for as little as we are. Our position as we examine it can be said to be, and the characteristics of history, cultural history, political history, are these relationships. Therefore, let us not underestimate the need for a powerful foreign service here. I agree with what. A senator's concern is how far he has gone in surgery in that area, and I'm sure he's the highest. A minister would agree there with us in that matter, and he nodded here. This does not change the fact that I have doubts about the professional reasons for what is suggested in the bill, would rather see the way of developing cooperation increases in our expenses and see the continuation of the work that has been going on in the development community and state. A senator also came into it in his speech, i.e. assessment performed in a developing cohesion agency and in a carpentry. It's really like I've said repeatedly that this institution -- you don't see what's wrong with it and then why there's a reason to change if nothing is broken, as they say. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would see if she was the most successful person to do, whether it would be best to have the same arrangement, whether or not she would feel that some adjustments have to be made, e.g. regarding the coming of the assembly, which she specifically discussed. And if it were wise to wait on this matter to the next assembly and consider it better in a parapolitic discussion, so that I might ask some relevant questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u48	Mr. President. I can't see why this situation is so urgent unless it may be related to some financial project and how to switch jobs between members of the Ministry. I would have thought it was more sensible, and the highest. A minister should have made a good impression, to wait for the reports that have been called on, and to rejoice that there would be further evidence under the decision he would like to make. I find it important to find out that here the review of the financial and economic bill, the official financial office, shows up, as I said earlier, that in Iceland's Development Research Institute, 40 employees are now working. The review says, with the permission of a president: It is not expected that the integration will lead to changes in the number of workers, and it is not expected to change in housing, but the Ministry's and JOSI co-works already work closely together and have the same residence. So also says: ▪ It is not expected that the bill will interfere with financial expenditures for business and to be funded in this category, it will remain the same as the law, assuming that the potential benefit of matching projects will be used in other ways. I think the Department of Economics and Economics has come to realize what this is for. It lacks employees in foreign service and it's a way to increase their numbers in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u49	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill from the highest level. Secretary of State on changing the law on Iceland's international development partnership. There have been many talks, one of the highest. A minister, and then there's a smaller part in the council that seems to be more interested in these matters than in others. I would like to begin by expressing concern over government attitudes about how to associate with the administrations. There was much conflict around the southeast plans for the transport of Fishing Room. We do not yet know what the outcome will be. It was all launched in that important institution when it was being transferred between parts of the country. Here, the prime minister's bill was that a minister was self-employed to determine where the institutions should be located. There was no proper professional argument or argument over why these changes were necessary. Of course, it is unnatural for a minister to have an example of where government agencies are located. It should either be determined by the law where they should be located, or if they are being brought to the Council to make a decision there, there are a number of factors that need to be considered. The experience in Fish Service tells us that there is good reason to believe that it is the Allied Council who makes that decision, for it had no good reason to transfer an institution. Then I do not object to the policy that it is important to build up jobs in the country, and maybe nice to remind the government of the importance of it, when it has largely contributed to the reduction of them by the national cuts throughout the country. But here is only another method, it is not being moved into an institution, but it is being put down and put under the Ministry. Here, same thing. There is no good evidence to explain why this is to be done. Yes, it is better to have two - sided, multi - sided development cooperation in the same place. I'm going to take a closer look, but I'm not particularly about to argue it in a credible way. In the United States, we love developing cooperation, and during the six years that the United States was with the minister of foreign law, we used much of it. In 2008 there was a law on developing cooperation and then the Agency went through relatively great changes. It was imposed upon the modern administration in the spirit of Government Accounting for several years before. At that time, it was also decided to have a special council administration of the Agency, and it was directly submitted to the Ministry, which has made it more flexible and easier for every government to implement its direct policy in developing cooperation. So it is not a problem for the government to cooperate with this Ministry Office. This has been suggested by two interpretations of the strategy and should be submitted to five years of age, with the objective and focus of Iceland in the category. At the same time, it was decided during the last term to add ambition to double - term development work in line with the UN's objective that the nations will provide 0.7% of GDP for development and cause it, of course, because we who enjoy living in the wealthy developed things of the world must contribute to our efforts to avoid poverty and help people from poverty, since the major problems of people are not life - style disorders, but serious neglect of education, lack of birth support and health care, and similar fundamental factors that we consider to be of special interest in our country and country. This government fell from that program. The record of ambition was not as great as the first, although there had been a parapolitic agreement on this matter at the time during the council, except for one member who is sadly in a position to use himself somewhat as the head of a legal committee in the matter. It has been discussed with her statements regarding this party and further cuts, and I'm not gonna spend any more time on it. With regard to the bill itself, the sole purpose of it seems to be to put down a developing cohesion agency. In itself, there is no reference to any other changes in development cooperation and its systems in the bill. It says that this is not to be saved, but it is to prevent overlaps in policies and activities and to reduce failures and blundering in business and management. However, there is no reason for us to believe that this is necessary, since there is no problem and double action and the management of the Agency. On the contrary, it has received an excellent State Reexamination rating and is generally viewed by the members of the developing world in the international community as an exemplary organization. However, it has been pointed out in the report by the Sigurgeirsdóttir that putting evolutionary cooperation into the Ministry weakens professional policy-making policies and reduces internal maintenance of decision-making. It has been said in the matter of Ministers that a number of people have pointed out that it is good and appropriate to put the Agency down and bring the jury into the Ministry, but it is difficult to find the evidence except in the report that Þórir Guðmundsson was working for the Ministry Department. Then we come to good government and good government, and then the State Accounting has emphasized the importance of the separation of implementation and control. It is this way today, in the development community, that it has the operation, and it's being conducted by the Ministry. The executive should now be put under the Rapporteur and there is natural reason to warn against such. It also points out that this route has taken place in many other countries, but this has been an example from Italy that the development community has been transferred from the Ministry to the Agency, which is responsible for two - side cooperation. And speaking of administrative and industrial operations, the cuts have also been great. After the collapse, the administration had to be cut down. Then came a new government and had a contingency requirement for the Board of Directors, which I'm sure. However, this did not work out the further discussions of a 5% cut-off, which is 1/20 of Iceland's Management Board's management budget, a proposal for discussion. Now it may be possible that at some point there will be evidence for such an operation. But the cut-off that this one at the Iceland Board must be made in a more discreet way than to enter the Ministry without any notice. It is in the environment in which we discuss these matters, the environment in which we have only been aware of the remains and the decisions. Hence, it may not be surprising that when this bill is introduced, preparation is needed for the committee to evaluate the matter. Now it has been pointed out that, of course, the committee is addressed and sent out for review. However, there is a need for work on behalf of the Ministry for the bill, and the solution in this matter was that the minority decided to submit a report request to draw up questions left in the report. For example, there is a request for comprehensive data and experience for this to improve efficiency and management and to ask if there is a practical issue. They're asking for a professional argument. That's a 21 question. There are so many questions left. One is especially important, and it is why it is not waiting for the development of the OECD, DiaC, to complete the proposed peer output in 2016. I don't see that with a model institution as the European Development Agency, it is so urgent that it can't be submitted for such an evaluation. If so, we need to understand further. It's not a savings thing, it's not a good argument. It will be interesting to have the report in response to questions from the representatives of my section because they are completely lacking in a report. Then I would like to talk about what has been said about the increase in the assembly's arrival to the press. I am not going to belittle the fact that, of course, there must be a clear way for members of the council to get information on lawsuits. We have clear channels within the council. We have a possibility for queries, reports requests, we can call up members of the council committees from councils and institutions as well as other organisations to discuss development cooperation and a strategy for developing cooperation is submitted to the council every five years. The fact that some five members of the council sit on a committee in a town is an old - fashioned proposal and that it is supposed to increase the assembly's arrival that there is no acceptable language. A minister should think seriously about the route he's on. I reiterate that for all members of the council in their role, it is important to have the best information. But here are a number of cases where we don't have special names in a town so the conference rooms can get information over coffee. That's what we do at the council scene. We have a clear contemporaneous law and authority to get the information we want and begin the discussion that we want to begin. No one needs a Senate committee of five. I want to end this because I think it's best for us to see what kind of rearranged ideas they are and how old - fashioned they are. They don't apply today. I hope there's more ambition in developing cooperation at the highest level. Minister, but it's in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. She's just as worried as the rest of us are about this case and she said it yesterday. I don't understand, as many people have pointed out here, that if the bill is to take effect on January 1, 2016, Iceland's Development Research Institute has commitments to 2017 in these three countries, why can't you wait for over a year to take effect on January 1, or June 1, 2017, or what that is? We're waiting for the report to come, and the State Department doesn't have to do it immediately, i.e. A developing co-work agency, before it is finished. In view of the review, we will consider all of this. Then, in effect, we have the basis for making a truly informed and positive decision. I don't think much has been shown in the discussion that offices of the Development Agency have often worked as almost a foreign embassies and have taken nothing special. The district manager is an ambassador, and I believe it has a lot of savings. It would have been interesting to hear the highest. In his final speech, a minister will state whether he believes that the land is a savings for having it that way. The 2008 laws are in line with the comments of a government accountant. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does she think it should have been waiting? Does she share with me that we would have put in our hands what we need to make a truly informed and good decision in relation to what I was saying earlier? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u51	V.E.G. President. In the beginning, it may be appropriate to say that while someone may come up with a bad idea and may try to control it, this does not mean that we should obviously wait to see how foolish she is. I want to make it clear that I'm completely against this bill. This is not a good idea, and it is evident to all who have studied the subject. However, it may be a matter of defense to bring out specific information that will more clearly show how unfortunate this arrangement is because of its highest degree. It seems that a minister did not have a point of research before making the decision. Then I agree completely that of course we should wait, and perhaps we should aim for people to wonder if the multi-time cooperation should go over to the development network. Today, time changes and emphasis may change, and changes may be normal. But to take government agencies and import them into the Ministry to strengthen the councils that have been cut down in the past two years, of some kind of interest, are not a good idea, and there is no improvement in the possibility that they will be able to obtain. I think it's also important to remember that people don't get dragged into this nonsense because it's a bad bill, and it's a bad idea, and it's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u52	A respectable president. Just to correct that, I also wholeheartedly agree that the bill is bad, but the highest. Clearly, the minister of foreign affairs is eager to make that statement. As has been done in the discussion, many foreign ministers have already faced this challenge, but they have been able to take it further. It was tore up here and we talked fine last night, and I completely agree with that. But for the sake of the matter, I would have thought that if it were the best. A minister is very concerned about doing this if he should have waited. I don't think the organization, i.e. What is to be considered here will help to improve our progress in developing cooperation. I also find it very strange to be moving in a number of factors, as discussed yesterday. These are actually very different factors, and I would have liked to start by seeing all the two- sided co-operation transferred to the Development Network, since they are not all there, i.e. One is to be in the scene of a disaster or the peace guard or something, and then to assist within the country, a man like that. That is much more than what a developing cohesion agency does. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the bill because there are certain statements that I have felt were lacking support. Yesterday we discussed that there were pimps on the page. 7 and 8. There is talk of minimising failures due to bilocation and management that lead to increased efficiency in the long term. It is being suggested that today is not the case, that the Agency is really not well fired. I was reading earlier in the bill that this is actually side by side in the State Department, including the review of the Ministry of State, but it's as if you can't work closely together, but it's just thinking about looking for ways to expand your economy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is as if economics could not mean that this will continue to be an independent institution because a part of employees works side by side. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u53	V.E.G. President. I don't think there's any logic, but there's nothing to indicate that there's some kind of problem and double-work here. On the contrary, as I mentioned in my talk, the Government Accounting has expressed great satisfaction in using funds for the Developmental Research Institute. I think the bill primarily describes the attitude of this government toward developing cooperation. They may feel that evolution is a good thing to have it as a single drawer in the Ministry, and it can be handled there. It's an isolated case. It's just what we're looking for in the request. It has recently been done, in recent years, to lay down an institution and put it directly into the Ministry. Is this what we expect, that institutions must be laid down and appointed under the minister to further the Minister's office? We have recently witnessed it here at the council with the very very same letter. Minister and gave this bill where it was supposed to be said in front of the council, that although we don't quite understand it and what was to be done, we do not fully understand it. Here, not only does a Minister intend to have institutions under the Ministry but he intends to take them into the Ministry and bear some kind of practical logic contrary to the government opinion that it is the best we know, considering his statements and statements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator recognizes that there is an example for this operation in our neighboring countries and whether we are taking it from anywhere else. And if so, whether it's known how it's been going.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen counter. I just went over it earlier that I don't know that this was done in recent years, but I'm also going to admit that I don't have a personal huge memory in this field. I've only been here six years. The government I supported did not practice such a trade. But it's over at the bill, it's pointed out in Australia and Canada that I remind you that this has been done but... [[New Zealand.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u56	Denmark
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u57	V.E.G. There are several countries that have practiced this, but we have also had a few points in our language in Italy that have chosen to take a different route, and I think there are these vital reasons for understanding policy development, implementation and monitoring. Developing cooperation is a serious matter category. It is a group of subjects with enormous significance, even though we are small in the large context. And to undermine that group in this way is something we should not be able to approve, no more than we would agree that other important government agencies would be laid down and placed on some area in the plots.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u58	Mr. President. In terms of observation issues, without knowing it quite well, it seems to me that it's rather a bad idea to have the procedure and observation in the same place. But it would be interesting to know or hear from what. A senator's opinion is that it is dangerous, and so does she, who will accept this surveillance? Where will the surveillance be, and how will it affect the Ministry's work in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u59	Mr. President. Yes, it is widely accepted in administrative and general, not only in administrative matters, that conduct and surveillance should not be on the same hand. I believe the Ministry of State is a good minister. I don't know what it's like, but I have no reason to believe in anything I have but that it's a good ministry and it's a very good job. But there has been so much surgery, it is a ministry that needs everything. It has to be ensured that infrastructure is not destroyed in such important agencies as the Ministry. However, there are probably some who handle the procedure within the Ministry, and there is also some unit that supervises the operation. Why don't we have financial security inside the banks? Why don't they just have financial watch spread on them? That's a pretty clear answer. We want a wall apart. We want to make sure that there are different interests. It may become a matter of interest to the surveillance that something does not show up, as it may be unpleasant to the minister or such. I'm not lying. I'm like this in a general falsifier. For example, the Children's Protection Agency had both a surveillance and a performance role. She still has a surveillance role for the local community, but the monitoring of the welfare services of the government and the Children's Health Department is at the head of our transfer to the Ministry of Health, just to understand that right now and so that the citizens could be more confident that it was being observed that the law and regulations were being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u60	Mr. President. I come up here in my second speech, which is short, just to review the big lines, I will not extend the discussion much. But first of all, I must say, at the moment, I feel very sad, as I have said. The members of the board choose not to participate in the discussion. I find this incomprehensible in view of the fact that there have been questions raised, criticism presented, mismanagement of course, but the question has been asked very important questions that have not been discussed today in this language room that we call the Allied Council. I would like to reiterate with the President that, of course, we need to see if we are going to continue a conversation at the council, so we really have no conversation. What I pointed out in my first speech, and I'd like to reiterate it after listening here to other numbers that I feel have added to them, I feel that the most critical of all to unite the Department of Development in the Ministry of State is that there has not been enough convincing evidence to support policy management, implementation and monitoring at the same place. I think it really runs the case if the Ministry is to monitor itself and then rely on state reexamination, with a number of tasks on their own levels. It has also been suggested that there may be some comment in the position of the State Department, i.e. ... hasa sharp cutoff at the State Department. I think there's a reason why we're going over whether this might have the effect of some way the group of evolutionary cooperation will be reduced. I would be very at odds with these developments because I feel that this is such a foundation in our foreign policy. I believe that we Icelanders have done a great job. I believe we've been successful and it's not just my food, research and food to show that we've been successful. I reviewed it in my first speech, so I'm not going to repeat it. But when we are doing good things, it is important that we do nothing that can destroy that success or affect it in some way. So I still ask, "If we're okay with the results, which I don't see better than on the report that we are and that all the evidence shows that we're happy with the results, why are we changing the curve in this way? ' I have also noted that there are advantages involved in hiding such projects, and we will discuss here. It creates a fixed policy between governments. It creates a distance from the politicalist, and to some extent it has more freedom in the exchange of information to form than the Ministry. Hence, there have been significant evidence presented in the discussion of the why. Councilmen here have spoken a significant argument against this matter. Here are doubts that I think are based on good reasoning, and I miss that they were not answered. Of course, we are expecting a report from the Ministry that will answer some of these questions but that these questions may be addressed without much response, with large protests or conversations, raise questions as to whether the matter is incomplete, whether the matter is not a reason to settle down in the cross - laity field. What I want to say here in the end, because my time is getting shorter, I don't know if there's any reason for a minister, although the matter is officially made to the council, to have a conversation with a representative of different categories in order to look into people's minds on the matter. V.E.G. Actually, a minister has been sitting here for discussions, so he knows at least what he's done. Think of four classes in this case. I would like to ask, Is it not possible to create a continued transnational agreement on our organization, developing cooperation in our administrations, so that we do not pursue the good results that have been achieved in this area, the results we can all be proud of, wherever we are? So that we do not put our results at risk, we will be off to make peace, review the case, not try to drive it through the council, in greater power, but pause. That's what I'm having my last words in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u61	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the speech. It wasn't long, but best. I would like to draw attention to what I felt was shown in the case of the senator, who is now making war over the part of our foreign affairs that has always been settled. Now it cannot be said of foreign affairs in Iceland that they were very happy, and we have different opinions about them, and I think we are. A senator has had differing views about them over the years, but this aspect of foreign policy has been accepted and has been stressed as having accepted. Now that section is taken into the fire of war. Now the matter has come to the council, where all classes sit and talk in a foreign - language committee. Hv. Government party members have not participated in this discussion. Now you're sitting down. A member of the State Department of State, I don't, and I would like to ask: Does she feel that they will participate in the discussion on the Committee? Or is it just gonna get run through? I asked because during the last term, these groups were in a position of government, and then they spoke, but then they sat on committees and had no opinion there and did nothing and were just moved. Is there any reason to believe that when these people are in control and more parts of them begin to do something that really matters? [[The president calls.]] How does it work? A senator on the foreign matter committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I just want to say that I've repeatedly described the point of view. The senators of the forward party and the Independence Party. It was now going into the hall anyway. Class president of the forward party. I miss no one else's heart. A senator has seen reason to express himself in this matter. It's totally impossible for me to understand. I told you yesterday that I could not, as it were, plant passion seeds in the hearts of these senators, if they have no interest in the matter, of course, beyond my ability to make it interesting to them. However, I would have believed that it was part of normal communication at the council that members of different parties were divided into council opinion. I find this absolutely incredible, especially because the more part belongs to six members of the committee and I've seen them here, I've seen them during the discussion and then. The head of the State Department has been here to listen to us. I find it very strange, therefore, that I did not have the privilege of listening to their views. Perhaps they will merely develop their viewpoint and listen while we are very spirited. As for the work on the State Department, I have been in it only since the last fall, unable to complain about the practices of the Committee, so I trust that when a hearing is made available, I will be more talkative and ready to work on the case as well as possible. I'm just gonna trust that this is how it'll be until then. But I'm very disappointed that no matter what. Councilmen, whether to a foreign committee or to any other committee, have expressed themselves on this matter. A man would have thought so. Senators from all committees would be interested in this huge case, in which we made up the last term of development action program that all agreed on but one member of the council, but no one is interested in expressing themselves on these matters here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u63	President. One thing that follows the introduction of this institution into the Ministry is that a contribution to development will be specifically understood from the Ministry of State's finance, at least Double development aid. This also results in the absence of a special financial team called the Developmental Cooperative Organization. Clearly, then, the Ministry has more room to move between its joints and move between its functions. I'm afraid a little bit of it can mean that the money that should go there, and I think it's a bit, what I'm supposed to say, boring or not good enough, will not be as visible as before, the funds that have been involved in activities that are among political parties. Unlike other aspects of foreign service. Is it not possible for the unity that has been involved in these issues to become a little more suspicious of where the money is going and what the emphasis is? Is it not possible to make this large pot?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u64	Mr. President. There is at least no need to increase suspicion, for it is, of course, the amount of money that comes into developing cooperation that is greater than the amount of money we put directly in our schools here or in our roads, bridges, or hospitals or what they are. We are very close to the way money is spent and we here recognize it, and the public in the country usually realize how much money is spent. Well, finding out is not a big problem. When we spend money for developing cooperation in distant countries where we do not watch daily psoriasis by the exact way they are spent, it is so important that results are well-examined, that transparency is well controlled, well controlled, and that the greatest transparency is involved. What I have found tremendously positive in the European Development Agency is how it really appreciates the results of the work. That's what I did, as I came up with some counter-reference, not just by counting cents and money that are sent or counting the number of wells, but by checking whether access to clean water has affected the health of the affected area. Of course, this is important. You're right. A senator points out. If the Agency leaves at least Under the Ministry, it has become one and the same budget, although it may not be the funds that go on developing cooperation projects themselves. I suppose it must have been dislocated, even though I did not have a problem with what it will be like, based on a government bill. But in any case, I would say that such funds need to be very transparent and visible to all. There is a risk of at least what turns out that the Development Commission will be more vulnerable than if all of this is in one pot. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u65	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is now older than two winters, and although she did not sit here guessing long or much of her life, she has seen things. What's been going on here in the last two days, she's never seen before. Hv. Reflecting aloud on a talk chair, a senator wondered how no member of the management team would be involved in the discussion. I don't remember that the government has a controversial foreign case where no member of the head of state is participating, where no member of the Ministry is involved, where no member of the board is involved. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee chooses, as he has the right to thunder in his seat, not to say a word at all. What conclusion do we draw about today? A senator of that? I can tell her. I can take her away. It's all smelly at the end of the day. The members of the board have just the same opinion as the fine senator mentioned earlier. They do not trust themselves to defend the matter. We noticed that last night a considerable number of members of the government were sitting here, especially from the advance party. There haven't been many of them today. Could this be because they too are sentient creatures? They have listened to these reasonings and have heard that there is no stone upon which the reasoning was presented, i.e. it was shown that it was wrong. When it is claimed that it is being moved on the basis of the DaAC recommendation, this proves to be nonsense. I'm asking why. A senator: If I agree with her, it may be a lack of participation. The members of the government are the reason they don't believe in anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u66	Mr. President. It is true that I have sat here since 2007 with two brief breaks to raise two children. I can honestly say that you're right about what you're doing. Senator, I don't remember anything like that when it comes to big business, debated. A senator says, on the side of the members of the administrations. I remember talking about such controversial matters as Minister and receiving support from both my own and the group of members in all cases during such discussions, so it's at least mine. surprise. I've been putting out some theories, especially for my own amusement, because I don't have time to go. A member of the board to deal with them; whether or not they are interested in the matter; whether they have not studied the matter or, as a matter, have they not? A senator says, a failure of courage to arise and reason on the matter. I must say, reading the reports that have been made, reading this bill, listening to the views that have come from members of four different governmental groups, where there have been various arguments and criticisms, and realizing that no man views it as an obligation to answer the criticism or to have a conversation about them, I am starting to be convinced that they are likely to lack the courage to answer because they do not have conviction for the matter. There's something that'll probably come to our table in time. State Department. But it will not be the first constitution that will prove to be so controversial in its constitutions at the time of its discovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u67	Mr. President. Hv. A senator revealed that she had started work at the International Assembly in 2007. I suppose she'll sit at least as long as I did in the Allied Council of Iceland. Then I'm not trying to paint her darkly colored future, but it seems to me that she's sitting at least until 2037. I say, considering my experience with what? A senator at all the time that she has ahead of her in the U.S. Council of Iceland has little hope of ever seeing a case like this. I didn't take this case very badly at first. I stressed that men should wait, however, for a review, such as The State Accounting. I'd prefer to wait for OECD's peer-spector teamwork committee. What surprises me during this discussion is that none of the critical issues presented by the government have been able to refute. I'll think about it. From the beginning of the discussion, a senator was the highest. The minister asked about the issues he gave either in his speech, in his answers, or in his report. To none of those statements, he could, in effect, give strong arguments. I recall that in the report and in his talk, it was shown that this was to avoid double acts. Where's the double job? V.E.G. A minister could not point it out. It was for the same thing, according to him, to prevent conflict. V.E.G. A minister was asked: " Where have they been in conflict? He could not answer that question. V.E.G. A minister spoke of a jamming situation. They asked about it. He could not answer that question. There was little question of answers when it was noted that the DiaC report or the FAC article specifically refers to and praised the organization in Iceland in development as a result of a division between the Ministry and the Development Grouping Agency is clear. So I'm going to let me predict it. A senator will never again see as unfounded as a bill, although even here to 2070. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u68	Mr. President. I find disasters prophetic of what happened. The senator will be all black when we discuss the year 2070, 2040, now that's all right, we'll get out of it. [[40.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] A respectable president. I would like to say that she has disappointed me with the answers that have been on this important subject. A senator mentions, on suspected double acts, inconsistencies in action, incomprehensibleness that may not prove to be at the time of the review of the evidence, and there is no such misunderstanding, even though it is an independent government agency that is under the department, and we know it from other problems. We've considered countless examples of the one where professional institutions work in rhythms and in accordance with the Ministry's policy, and the Ministry observes that political and professional policy is being followed. This must be true of developing cohesion agencies, such as other professions. In view of the fact that this has been an important reason why such changes are not right, especially because the DAC Institute of Development has been proposed, I don't know what it is that is, why this case is presented before it is submitted. It is not enough to put down just a few words about increasing efficiency and reducing double pain if there is no evidence to support it by illustrating and convincing evidence. Mr. President. There's nothing in this discussion that convinces me that it's only right to wait and pause, that cross-cutting should be appropriate if you want to proceed with the case, but the first choice would likely be to wait for the coming report to be 2016. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's anything that goes wrong in the community, even if this case is requested. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u69	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the law on Iceland's international development team and more. The bill suggests a fundamental change in Iceland's development network, i.e. to put down the Development Agency and deliver the operations of the State Department. The first thing I'm gonna stop at when it comes to this bill is how much I've felt about it. When it comes to developing cooperation, a government draws its legs. That's what worries me. We are still far from the goals that we have set for ourselves here at the General Assembly with a resolution that was settled in the last Parliament by all members of the Parliament, except one where Iceland's involvement in development cooperation was decided to be increased. But as has often been observed at the General Assembly, including the U.S. in a special discussion earlier in the winter of development, as well as in the discussion of a foreign foreign state report a few days ago, we set at this point about 0.21-0.22% of GDP in the developing language while we had intended to be up to 0.35% according to the earlier synonym. Unfortunately, we are the great surviving boats of the other northern countries that set from about 0.55% of their gross domestic product in development cooperation and up to 1%. The goal of the United Nations is to develop and establish, as is thought to be Iceland, a well - developed and productive state to place at least 0.7% of its domestic production in developing cooperation. Thus, as soon as I can see how small we are involved in developing cooperation, I immediately react to a certain reaction, an alarm alarm triggers when a bill comes about just putting down a developing community organization, which, in fact, has a large part of the means of bringing in this money so that good business can be worked out. This includes very grim political messages because, despite the problems we face with regard to discrimination here at home, we are still among the richest nations in the world. Therefore, I believe we have a moral obligation to contribute to this issue. As far as I can see, and as I know, the development community has carried out its work in an impossible way. The Agency's work is well reported. It has remained within the budget, i.e. does not exceed the budget given to her, and is certainly doing important work to improve the standard of living for those in the poorest countries in the world. As others have noted during the discussion, it seems that by this bill of disintegrating the development network, to import the operation into the Ministry of State, to change something, or to suggest that something is not broken but seems to be working very well. I don't think that during the discussion, it has ever clearly identified how much better it can be done in a developing research agency and what should really be improved by moving the operation to the State Department. Yes, it has been noted that bifocals, overlaps, and uncertainty have not yet been exposed to any convincing evidence and that there is no evidence to support any two - way process and what it is therefore to improve. V.E.G. President. The fact is, then, that there are quite many questions left in this matter and when it comes to this legal bill. I notice some kind of rule, that when it's after seven o'clock, my voice always dries up in this room. [[Top of the list, speak sooner.]] I've got to put myself on the rosary, that's probably a good tip. Excuse me. I'm going to go on. Many questions remain regarding the activities of the Development Agency and what should be achieved by the legislation presented here. This is not to be seen least in requests for a report submitted by members of the government body. I just want to address a few of the questions raised there. It calls for answers to questions about the subject. If the discussion had well been answered, we would have been in a different place in the discussion instead of speaking in speculations about the future. We need to guess what the conclusion will be, but, of course, the answers should have been made. The first thing asked to report is experience and statistics. It says, by permission of the president: 1st Experience and statistics fundamental to the assessment of cohesion increase efficiency and economy and information on the availability of a more efficient basis for this assessment. 2. An excellent argument that lays the basis for a family plan. 3. Whether neutral experts have considered the current and material causes of change, in view of the fact that the current 2008 development legislation is based on an analysis that proposed a switch between the Ministry and the Agency and the political solidarity of all groups in this setting. 4. Whether the Ministry considers a principle of evolution to be different from any other set of issues in view that the general management board has developed increasingly in terms of the development of policy and monitoring of its implementation rather than the implementation of professional institutions... A respectable president. I'm not going to read up all the twenty-one questions, but they're all very important in this discussion. I would especially like to pause at the 9th question, which is called on for a report. It sounds like this, with President's permission: ▪ Information on why the assessment of FAC is not submitted and the effectiveness of development aid proposed in 2016 prior to the proposed decision to submit to the Agency by the Council. There has been quite a few debates today, and the audience explaining it is the DiaC for the Development Committee of the Economic and Development Organization, OECD. As early as the next year, the committee is expected to review the setting in Iceland. I just don't understand why it's the highest. A minister doesn't wait this year to see what results from DiaC's assessment and why we don't just keep our distance with an evolutionary research agency that, as I traced earlier, has been doing quite well, as far as I can see. This discussion of a report as a bill has also been widely discussed in this series. Secretary of state is built on. The Guðmundsson's son was assigned to investigate methodology, organization and arrangements for the implementation of development cooperation in Iceland. He wrote a rather long report on that subject. I would like to quote the contents of that report only, for although Þórir would come to a certain conclusion in his report, it is very clear that more are possible than what he finally finds and recommends. That's why I'd like to quote from the entrance. It says, by permission of the president: This report presents ideas that are referred to here as merits consideration. In some cases more than one idea of some of the main concerns involved in helping Iceland with developing countries is presented. This is to get a discussion about the pros and cons of the project. It should be noted that in some cases, some of the advantages presented here are already being met by the development team. I think it's a pretty important point because a writer puts in a number of points for discussion. That's what I think is so sad about today and yesterday's discussion that it's just the government opposition that's taking part in it. There's no serious talk. Here we go. In an effort to keep up - to - date with the failings of the bill and yet its benefits, a senator conducts up against others in an effort to keep up - to - date. The Committee to Refuse the Committee to Refuse you. I don't understand the meaning of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson's entry better than that he was actually calling for a specific discussion because he not only sets out one conclusion but also gives different points that can be used as a basis for discussion. Therefore, as my time is running out, I want to express my frustration that we have not used our time in this discussion to have a serious speech, a government, a government attitude, the pros and cons of this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to ask her about the bill, which is now quite extensive, in 14 articles. The argument for its contributions seems to be mainly that it is in line with new international emphasis on developing cooperation. The world is dealing with problems such as climate change and things that require that the international community and the Ministry also have on hand, and two - side agreements where there are cooperation with individual countries on various building projects. In other words, there is evidence that there is such a thing, but above it it is not properly done; there is somehow no hand in the firmament of the emphasis on promoting developing cooperation. It is noted that there is no savings, yet there is logical support in the bill that this is more practical and simpler and prevents double injury and something like that. There's some very weak reasoning on the bill. Does the senator agree with me that, in fact, there is only one purpose, to put down a developing research agency? I can't quite give myself the reason why there might be any other reason than that it's a big save recently in the Ministry of State and that it should be strengthened in this way. But it is difficult to know that reasoning is not good. [[The president calls.]] But is there any purpose in the bill other than putting down a developing organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. Yes, I agree with her, and as I did a little bit over in my speech, my argument is with the bill and why the Supreme Court is correct. Ministers to put down the Development Agency and transfer the operation into the Ministry very weak. Sadly, the steps caused me to panic, and that is exactly what I did in my talk to the highest extent. The government has not been adding contributions to this group, as had been decided here at the General Assembly. Therefore, it both disappoints you and causes you to be concerned about just what the vision is about in this series, and again the lack of participation. The members of the board of directors in the discussion. He also gives me a measure of concern about the group of litigation, for like a dog. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was already so optimistic that he could think that it was possible because they did not trust themselves to participate in the discussion because they really agree with us in the political opposition that has spoken the most. In fact, I am quite worried that it could just be the opposite. Congress officials do not participate in the discussion because they feel that this is the best and that it is just fine. I feel very sad if that is so, remembering that I would like to hear their voice, their point of view about it. Yeah, I'm afraid I'm not going to shut down a developing research agency to save money for that lawsuit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u72	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'm naturally going to admit that I'm not surprised. There's another thing here that I'm trying to explain that when the 2008 law is set up on developing cooperation, it is decided that the Council shall appoint a seven-man administration to allow the General for policy development of the Agency. Then, at the General General's natural access to policies through Congress resolutions on developing cooperation plans. But I wondered whether this is a large group of people who are supposed to meet at least twice a year and be aided in developing cooperation - whether the senator can provide for himself, if this is the government's idea of the arrival of various parties, that it will not be necessary to demand that members of the Parliament be elected here and there in various departments to agree with various important groups. What kind of understanding of the role of the council is presented here? Is it reflected in the understanding of the government that the Council is primarily a financial agency and that the General could have some effect on them, then they need to choose one of the clubs in town?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u73	V.E.G. President. I think these are very important questions and speculations. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir rolls up, i.e. The role of the Generals should be and how its approach is to policy development and access to litigation. Now I'm not gonna get high on a horse and pretend I'm some sort of expert on how the management board works, actually, I'm just taking my first step in getting involved in this system. But what I've noticed during this winter I've sat in the Council is the highest. Governments to enter here with an invitation, i.e. to the maximum. The government makes bills and seems to consider our role as senators to stamp them, while I've always understood the command in the wrong direction, that we are members of the council that come in with the situation and hide it. A government to execute them. As a result of my understanding, I find it very strange to select five members of the council who will meet twice a year to discuss development cooperation at the highest level. State Department. I would've thought what. The Foreign Affairs Committee as well as this hall here is the scene where we are to shape Iceland's vision of futures and modern visions in how we are going to conduct our developing work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u74	Mr. President. Iceland's Development Organization was founded in 1981 by the then Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and the president of the Future Party, Ólafur son of Jóhannesson. Since then, it has developed in various ways. As you look at similar activities in other countries, you can see that they have taken various forms according to their individual circumstances. In the opinion we have noted many times during the discussion, the OECD Development Committee, theDCC Committee, lists three models to be used in different countries. It specifically shows that the Icelandic system evolved slightly off - limits and did not fit into any of the models available. That does not mean that it has to be broken up. The Icelandic system has worked really well. There is no better authority than there is. Secretary of State has himself made it very clear in the report, that there are many other challenges to the foreign intelligence that the Agency has done well. Hence, it must be clearly stated why a system is going to work very well. There's been no evidence of that. It may be right next to you. A senator said that we should have used this discussion to discuss how best to have the system. Then I recall that the presidents of the House of Congress asked a president to get his permission to request an independent government evaluation of the Government's plans, and why? Because the main policy of the bill violates all of the guidelines given by the National Reconnaissance. It's not what. A senator agreed that in order for us to discuss this in any sense, we would need to know if this is in the spirit of the individual member of the Generals himself, an agent. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u75	V.E.G. President. Yes, I believe we've actually gone wrong into this discussion. If it hadn't been the most natural thing to start by getting State Accounting, getting answers to all that question, 21 question at any point. Senators of the European Commission have requested a report from the Foreign Minister, waiting this year for the death report to the CDC on how Iceland's Development Cooperative Agency works, thus going to a lower level, through some material, into the discussion? Once we have that goal, it may be time to discuss some adjustments, for we have something on which the system works now and what possible improvements may be needed. In fact, I'd like to say, in the end, that evolutionary cooperation can undoubtedly be accomplished by various means and with good results, and we see exactly that nations are traveling differently. It is quite clear, however, that while we don't put any money on the project, the type of model we use to get the development team on our way. Of course, even if we insist on being treated properly, it must be quite important that we employ capitals on the project. The amount of money must be extremely important in this context. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Governments don't give up the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u76	Speak 'em up. A senator in charge of women. I completely agree that the core component of the Agency's work, such as the Development of the Agency, is, of course, the budget. It has to do with this discussion. It seems that in the bill's report, but the material report on five or six pages, there are some reasons that are taken away from the findings of the DEC Committee and, of course, are found in the opinion of certain indications, but they do not refer to the position currently in terms of financing. You see, they all aim, or at least Most of the time, the future that had been decided on by the Generals, would be given much more capital for the seminary than it is today. So the reasons for them are of little importance under unsupervised circumstances. V.E.G. Minister has been proclaiming that he's bringing others, I don't know when he's going to bring them. In any case, since the schedule, about 2.3 billion dollars have been cut down. SoDC's opinion is very different from the situation today. This does not change the fact that it is likely that if there is a need to change systems and institutions, they may even lay down organizations or create new ones. In this case, the highest duty is very strong. Minister to explain if he intends to change a system that is doing well. The Ministry, the government, the highest. Ministers have not lived up to that obligation. Basically, there is a change that violates the direction of the Kingdom Accounting and is not to be saved, nor is there a problem to address. And one saith unto himself, Why go into this way in the name of the Lord, and in the name of forty?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u77	V.E.G. President. Is but hope. A senator asks what the highest question is. Minister of state is going to this expedition with contributions from the bill. I'm afraid there's a way to make it easier to save money when it comes to this case, i.e. that we Icelanders, one of the richest and bestst of the world's nations, are going to draw up to provide money for developing cooperation in order to reduce poverty and increase the prosperity of people in the poorest countries in the world. I'm afraid that's the point of a major road trip. Minister. Perhaps now no one is better qualified to answer that question than the highest. Minister himself. I hope at the end of this discussion he gave some insight into what it is he intends to achieve with the bill and answer some of the many questions that have been raised on this subject both today and yesterday. Sadly, it has to be a little bit like talking into something so sad when we discuss something as important as what we as a nation do and in what way we can reduce the world's most desperate poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u78	President. I'm gonna take advantage of being able to come up twice to talk about this important matter. The discussion has been quite long and beneficial in many respects, even though the government and its supporters failed to participate in it. You see, there's a lot of things that have come up, a respectable president, like what I want to emphasize, i.e. That it was, I'm holding on to it. paritaprevir A New Harðardóttir Daughter, Suggested No. 23 of the 111 proposals made by the so - called economist are to lay down this institution. From the very beginning, it has been clear that the chairman, who now is a boy. The head of the budget board, is against the Agency, she has repeatedly declared that it is against this institution, and she believes that we should put less money there than we have done, as shown here in the discussion and in answer to the last speaker, the expenses for the seminar are now about 2.3 billion lower, I think, but had been agreed here by all but why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and others are proving to be true during very difficult times. I remember, and I've mentioned in the past that it was a pleasure for a foreign committee to conclude that a joint decision was made to raise funding to this group in very difficult times, all of us pretended to be able to do so. Then it couldn't be done. So I wondered, " What is the minister's position and his motive? ' I'm making it clear that he is the special delegate to Vigdís, the daughter of Hauksdóttir, and he has come in her strength here to make it its important policy to reduce the contribution we make to the poorest nations of the world. And this is how the mission he went for ten days ago, or whether it was half a month ago, gave some incomprehensible letter to the European Union or to the Council of Ministers of the European Union that we'd cut out member talks, which is naturally thanks to it. So I'm just looking at something, a respectable president, to the highest level. Secretary of State, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, has become a special representative of Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It's not very pleased with me for him if I'm to say quite honestly as it is. I can't thank the Minister or any other council members for having participated in our discussion, so I might be a bit cornered here at the end. It may not be surprising, though, if people become horny when what is said here is unrecognized and does not seem to be a reason to answer. I don't know exactly, Mr. Honorable President, whether to celebrate that we're seeing any senators in the middle of nowhere or sitting in here and not putting anything to the table. Nothing. It's natural to act like that. That's all I can say about this conduct. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u79	V.E.G. President. I listened attentively to a talk. paritaprevir The Bjarnadóttir of Valgerður, who made the shoes the top. Secretary of State would be a representative of what? The chairman of the budget board, if I may say so, his coworker Hauksdóttir, who has served many times as spokesman for cutting down Iceland's donations for development. This is my question to you. A senator: Is it not clear to me that the bill available today for the change in Iceland's development organization is not designed to save money, that it is not the goal of the bill to reduce the financial expenses of the state, but is the sole concern of the internal organization of this work? Or is there other aspects of what I don't see?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u80	A respectable president. It's just what's natural, the bill is so disassembled that you can be completely confused about the purpose of it, as we were nine members of the council asking for an answer 21 before this discussion was made. The answer, however, has not been given. Certainly, the papers say not to save anything or do something like that. However, all of us know that foreign service has been cut down significantly, and since this money goes into foreign service, I fear that it will be used in ways other than development. The translucency will be much smaller, and there are all sorts of ways to bring money to which it is not while the work is in a special facility, which is one of the advantages of a special agency that the transparency is more, that is, a special financial body, with members of Congress being able to pay more attention. I'm afraid it's a secret way out. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who has shown that she is opposed to the development community, that she thought it might be possible to bring it in there, could be cut off from these things without perhaps it's as obvious how she's applied herself to those resources as to the aspects of our foreign service which have been agreed on between all classes, which is different from what is about most of the other issues we have in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u81	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Valgerður made Bjarnadóttir for that fine answer. Its main point is that with these changes, it would be possible to cut down on quieter development activities so that it would be less possible to do so. Truth be told, I think we need to look at these matters in a larger context. For example, I look at a bill held before the council on public finances that, as I understand it, and as I have read this bill and its report, the authority from the General to the execution of the Agency on a large scale. There is something that we will discuss well in the Assembly Hall. We have the case under the Commission and the Council Board, which looks primarily at the coming of the Council to monitor the budget of the European Commission. What I'm saying is, we have to look at these issues together, and of course it's very important, I'll agree with it. A senator, that the funding of the Council, which is determined here on the basis of the budget, is clear to the end. I'll buy them arguments as easy as I can. A senator has made clear what this special legal bill is all about and how Iceland's people feel about developing cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u82	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator put it right. Now there is the possibility of cutting down the development team in silence, exactly as he said. So I don't think this bill should be mentioned to legalize the law on international development cooperation in Iceland. It's a proposal of 23 for the financial rights of a government group. Vigdís the daughter of Hauksdóttir and Guðlaugur, the Þór of Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u83	V.E.G. President. I am very happy to get into this discussion. I was on behalf of the Generals at a meeting of the two committees of the European Parliament in Paris yesterday and yesterday, which included the arrival of the Icelanders in human rights. One of the things that were done there and are now at the Council of Europe is the practice of increasing human rights and democracy. There are international laws in international business agreements, i.e. actions set up in connection with international business agreements. Now I want to read from Article 1. This bill, and then you can argue why I specifically mention it. It focuses on the aims of the law, and it says, with permission of the President: the objective of Iceland's international development team is to support the efforts of the government in developing countries to eliminate poverty and hunger and to promote sustainable development, including the need for sustainable development. human rights Other things are listed then. In other words, we contribute to the scales with governments in developing countries so that they can stand on their own feet. But what is it like when they want to stand on their own feet? How, then, do the Icelanders act? Developmental cooperation should be based on mutual respect, not on passing some bites on the needy. It must be based on mutual respect. We have been accompanied by the developing nations at the International Business Agency, set up in 1995 to work together on international business contracts in services. Since then, this has been very controversial, especially since the world's poorest powers became aware of world power, and I call attention to the fineness of the words of ◆ the authority of the world, trying to access a fork through these agreements. They go to shore in 2008 after a global protest, not only in developing countries, but also on the part of the labor movement and the human rights organization in our part of the world. But then, as the richest club kicks behind the other one and secretly, and then they've been informed of what's going on there, and they're going to try to squeeze their joint outcome, these few countries are 50, all of them, on the 123 states that had come together in the GATS agreements. One of the most dramatic elements of those contracts is an international statement, and I'm back to my meeting in Paris on Tuesday. This led to their decision. I'm simply pointing out that this large context of parts has to be examined. Developing cooperation is showing respect for developing nations and asking what they want. Now their will is known in this regard, we should not act in harmony with it, especially in view of the noble objective outlined in Article 1. this song bill? I'm gonna name it real. I have reasoned with you, and called for us to withdraw from the TiSA speech and then make a special effort to accompany developing countries on international development. I would like to mention this at the outset, but then I would say that the left men had become a bit shy using the term "future," but as time has passed and were past the turn of the century, and now in our time, we all realize how beneficial this term is, to want power in the power of riches. That's what's happening with these types, that companies, the multinational business, are trying to take the legal authority of the individual states and transfer it into this form. Happily, the European Union is raising a great protest against the European Union against treaties that the European Union has had on the work surface with the United States. This bill outlines a number of organizational adjustments. I'd like to state that I don't object to such organizational changes. In fact, I think it's very good in public business that all business is regularly attacking whether the organization should be changed. I think it's a very good thing for people in general, but it has to be said that in recent years and decades, and then I'm not alone looking to this government, not at all, has been extremely unopposed in that regard. People have continued to struggle to cope with change, with the willingness of employees, and even with those who enjoy the ministry, never or rarely took enough time to prepare changes to make them feel at ease. We tried to abandon it during the last terms of various materials, but in every case we did not succeed. For example, there were changes in the Council of Control. I thought of things that came under criticism of them. We had tried to change the local and police organization, and it was always the same. It was not bound to one government, rather than to another. This was to be done on a short notice, from the next millenniums. I'm gonna brag about it a little because when I arrived at the Ministry of Justice and faced this project in 2010, I decided to put it into a more permanent course that no changes would be made until the beginning of 2015. Then everything slowed down, and they could begin talking slowly about what was at the door. That's how change should be made, I say. As to this aspect, I stress that here we all have more and less to blame than we are to learn from mistakes we have made over the years in this regard. What is clear about this bill and the organizational changes are primarily one thing: They are the rest of the world. These are suggestions that lie on the table. Then I'll say this: If anyone is going to be involved, he must be able to persuade us who are on guard for the general law that there are rich reasons to attack the change, because the responsibility rests on the converter, on the one who is running around and changing. There's no evidence in this room. She's at the highest. Minister in charge of controversial change proposals. He must have very strong reasons for resisting the genuine will of many. It has now been stated that there is a petition from members of the Parliament that presents a 21 - question to which people would like to know. There are some important questions involved in the administrative issues of the matter, the financial gate and other factors as well. Since then, a request has been made by the presidents of all the anti - administrative parties at the council that the National Reconnaissance take place in a special administrative study of the arrangement proposed here. Then I come to the most important part of this all that has to do with the foundations of our administration. I've understood it so that we've been walking on the path of construction in one place and monitoring another. That's the basic thought we're walking out of. I'm not talking about a lot of money, so it's important that we discuss between execution and follow-up. This has been the thought of most of the system changes that have been under attack in recent years, of moving factors in the scheme, and then it is the Ministry of Development, which is a kind of egglike shell that's holding on to the operation, consistent with our policy in developing cooperation. The Ministry can do this in a general way, but there's somewhere else, and then there's the surveillance, and everything plays it together. It seems to me that this show is being taken in the opposite direction. As far as I can see, in a bill report specifically stated on the European Development Research Institute, and I allow myself to witness, with the permission of President: ▪ THESSI has done a very good job in the field, so it has been taken into account, and has made many changes in the independent reviews. Then I ask for another factor. I've previously referred to the 21 questions raised by the members of Congress that are wanted, I've referred to the request of the chairman of the U.S. In this town, it has been said that in view of success, a more difficult job, this case will be evaluated on an equal basis as it will be in 2016. And then I ask, "Why not wait for it? " Why not learn from mistakes we've made, and I'll take it out of our way, i.e. as the council, Governments, governments, by being too urgent? Why don't we wait? What's the hurry? We are told that money is not being saved. There is much doubt as to how good this change is and when it comes to asking the highest question. The minister of the burden of evidence is that we are being answered in this hall. We need them. Has there been any criticism from our associates in OECD that this arrangement is bad? I'm just asking. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The president has indicated that my speech session has ended, and of course I respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u84	Mr. President. I think they're traveling at the same time. paritaprevir At the beginning of his speech to Paris, the count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson has brought him home even more knives than before. I thought why. A senator completely wrapped his mind on a crystal-colored core in this case. Hv. In effect, a senator said that if there was a legal system for which the government wanted to fall, there would be very good reasons for it. Hv. A senator put it this way: The load of evidence on the government is very rich. I totally agree with that. I might not have fallen to the top of my feet. Secretary of State if he had come up with more reasoning, but at least I would have been willing to listen. I've just been convinced that the evidence isn't there. Therefore I say, The law is as it is. A senator was here to determine what to do with a change that is only valid. It's like this, the government has to give strong reasons for change if it's a system that's worked really well. Hv. A senator knows the natural administration out and in. Before coming here as a senator, he was a victorious chairman of the labor movement of those who work within the administration. Hv. A senator pointed out what many of us have already noted, that the evolution and advice from our own agency, Our National Relations, has all been unable to move between the process and observation. Got it. A senator's saying that it's over his head slowly other than pushing down his feet against a bill that seems to go in a different direction? [[The president calls.]] And have a why. A senator understands that members of Congress have not been overly satisfied with this? [[The president calls.]] It's a comeback, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u85	V.E.G. President. I think it's perfectly normal for us to break down our feet, like a dog. A senator put it, and put this case on ice. I believe this case should be put on ice. We're supposed to take some time. We are to have direct discussions with the DEC, OECD development committee, which has been identified as a projection of these factors on an equal scale in 2016, we are to wait for this to happen. I also think it's normal for me to put this on hold because we've been convinced that we shouldn't save money on this, that's what we've been told. We have doubts about some who make a change in arrangements so that we may be less alert to cuts, but let's give ourselves the highest level. A minister does not have his pants to attack such an operation and that this is at least not one of the objectives of these changes. Then I ask, " What's it going to be like waiting on this case to just put it on ice? ' I can't see anything gets lost. What seems to be the evidence in this matter is to coordinate the activities involved in this umbrella, international development cooperation, and two - sided development teamwork. Now I ask, first the highest. Former minister of foreign affairs has answered: Does he believe that there is a lack of such coordination on the vast two factors, i.e. The international cooperation, then the prospective United Nations and other such institutions, and the two - sided development teamwork?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u86	Mr. President. I don't think so. I don't think there was anything missing about it, not in the past Minister or at all in the past. Secretary of state. It may not take my punk to confirm that. Hv. For example, a senator can pick up a report from the committee he referred to, DOC, and read what it says. It makes it clear in one place that the cooperation between the two to-dos, development teamwork, has been very successful, and it is specifically stated that the workers of these two units worked very well together. There is evidence that nothing has been missing. In itself, there has been nothing in the discussion, and it does not show up unless there is less in the report that there is nothing wrong in the bill. I think that in the discussion right now, no man has ever left a finger into what has happened in this field except one point. Of course, humans disagree with the current policy of government, and there is no change that it has reduced financial resources from what the council agreed to do. That's all there is to it. In case of a moment. A senator would ask me what changes I thought were needed to make on my behalf, not to continue on the course that the previous government started as an indicator from abroad as well as from an independent member of the country in increasing the percentage of the provision money to its independent group. I think that would be very positive. In fact, I think it will happen in the coming years, and that's why I think it would be good to have a future development community organization to share it out. It's not true today, though she's a client.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u87	V.E.G. President. A few years ago, the secretary - general of the world phone company, Philip Bowyer, arrived at the invitation of BSRB. He was talking about privatizing government phone companies. I remember him saying, "Why fix something that isn't broken? " I don't think it's Philip Bowyers's invention to say things like that, but sometimes you've heard that. But we are naturally waiting to hear from the highest. The minister of state is so desperate that even those outside the Ministry are known to be largely opposed to the bill and these changes, some of the members of the management team are also having doubts and those working on these matters, in general, are being highly critical of these changes. What's so crazy they can't wait? I'm just asking. We must get very effective reasons for attacking these changes. Therefore I repeat, the burden of evidence of controversial changes rests with those who are trying to drive them through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u88	Mr. President. It doesn't have to hurt in my opinion. This discussion has now been held for two days, and throughout the discussion it has become very clear that the main elements of this bill, which includes putting down the development community, are not on any particular basis. One candidate after another has come and asked questions, which, in effect, crystal down the nuclear debate. paritaprevir Jónasson's son surmise: How will governments live up to the burden of evidence upon them when they take the initiative to act in a radically effective system, a system that is to be judged by the Supreme Court? The minister of state is doing so well that he puts it in the text he puts forth to support his proposal that there are many other aspects of the foreign employer's work that the Agency is doing very well. Why, then, should it be laid down? There has been no evidence of that. Mr. President. I've been here a long time, and I've come up under this discussion that it seems like the board itself, which, of course, is supposed to be the base of this bill if there's ever a vote I'm beginning to think about, didn't trust to come and give the highest power. Minister for the case. It's never happened, so I remember it coming into the council a controversial bill that has been given with great strength and zeal to the minister of the profession without any support, at least From his own party. In the last two days, this has happened to you. The members of the board have at least thundered the initials in their seats. None of them have seen reason to come up, explain the matter, or express support for it. And even the most brilliant and logical person in these sales. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Birgir of the Ármannsson, has been at the top of the discussion, but he has not trusted to arise and support the highest level. Secretary of state on this matter. When you go over the evidence and try to crystallize the ones in both languages. A minister and in the report doesn't have much to do. I have already pointed out in this discussion several times that it is at the highest level. Minister mentioned from DAC report simply cannot resist. This report certainly contains some kind of tip on how to handle more important projects in the future, if at all possible. One day a minister would wake up and decide to follow what the previous government agreed on in terms of the increase of donations. It was on what they suggested, few others. But it's not, like the highest. A minister said in reply to find no indication that this was the case. There are many systems that can be identified as other nations, e.g. The other countries of the North, which have different types of people than ours, Australia, Canada, but it can also be noted that in some parts of the world, the trend has gone in a different direction, such as. correspondent in Italy The most important thing is that the development network is shaped according to its individual circumstances and the activities of this arrangement, as it were, the highest level of activity. A minister has confirmed in his speech and in the publication I referred to earlier. But none of the three groups or models that humans have eaten elsewhere are affected. On the other hand, if this is to be changed, there must be strong evidence. The evidence is extremely weak. V.E.G. Minister says this is done to prevent policy overlaps. Me and others have asked the highest. Minister: Where is that overlap? There was no answer. There was to be a reduction in the use of biphasic processes. You can't point out where the double act is. It's supposed to reduce trouble. Nor can you point that out. It is designed to ensure that communication with foreign countries is consistent and smooth. No evidence can be made that development is not the case. It's to make sure that developing cooperation is in harmony with Iceland's foreign policy. Master Faithful, does anyone think he isn't? But the most important point is that this is a review of the Guidelines for good management by comparing surveillance and implementation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u89	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, which has been possible, but not entirely. I'm going to use the time I have to answer some of the questions that have occurred, but then, of course, I suggest that the matter be addressed. The Foreign Affairs Committee, where there is a way to continue discussions and comment, etc. First, let it be said that the case has, of course, been handled by the government and members of the government, so there is no doubt about its support. In fact, there have been a number of surprises in this discussion, and in chapters I feel like a whale. Councilmen were rather ill - informed or misinformed about details they have presented. First, I'd like to say in general that developing cohesion arrangements are well organized and efficient and that this is our policy. I'd also like to say that in the group that worked on this bill was an agent of the YSSI, so the bill has truly not been worked without consultation with that institution. It should also be corrected that this is not the first time the bill of this material is presented, unlike what has been claimed here. The discussions made sure that policy, methodology, and behavior were confused with the harmony itself. Something doesn't change when we're together. Our field activity will not change either, it's the management, it's the management board we're changing. For the analysis this has been quoted, I'll be back to it later, won by Þórir Guðmundsson, she is thoroughly and professionally processed. There shall be no doubt about it. It was based on conversations with 200 people and visits around the world, and he was reviewing some of the arrangements of other so-called DAC countries. This question has been asked about the matter of speaking in one international voice. In the text we speak about the importance of speaking in one voice. It does not contain any innuendo. It is important, however, that those working in Iceland in foreign fields do so, speaking in one voice. I think there are other examples, and I suggest. Councilmen on the State Department are requesting that such cases be brought up. I don't think it's right to do that with this discussion, but there are examples. Then I'd like to mention that we have a big case in our foreign policy. Of course, there are human rights, climate issues, evolutionary goals, human rights, and other factors. All of this needs to rot, and it must work as a unit, and it must speak with one voice. THESS, of course, have greatly changed, including increasing communication and cooperation with international institutions, the most widely developed in the world. Men have also spoken here as if there is nothing to happen in evolutionary affairs except within the TSSI. It's just wrong, there's a lot of work done at the Ministry, and there's some very skilled experts, bringing people who are also involved in development and development projects. I would also like to remind you of the purpose of the current law because it was referred to as being out of place in the Ministry. The purpose of current law is to put a better grip on the party. When you go through the report and create the bill that was then submitted and accepted, it is a transvestite. What is more, and which I will come after, if I have time, is that it was being done to increase the power of the minister at that time. These suggestions are not being made today. This additive effect is completely indistinguishable. There's been some contingency that the bill has run away from its officials, having this arrangement. I don't know how it was done here in the past, maybe coming in a bit after it, but it's quite certain that it's not the case with government officials to go that way. We had an independent specialist determine if there is any reason to change because the DAC committee called suggested that the development team should be examined specifically. I haven't said anything else. I haven't said that this is the way the DOC Commission has proposed. There are also other suggestions in the review group or rather indications because they were not intended to make hard suggestions. Among other things, it is noted that policy development and the vision of how Iceland's donor states want to be in the future should be further developed. They realize that there may be an even greater need to establish priorities in cooperation countries and such. There are many things in this focus that actually strengthen the need to settle matters. I reiterate that I haven't said that they suggested that the Agency be united with the Ministry, however, that there would be an inspection. It has been claimed that it is now being won by peers. It's just wrong, nothing's working it now. That's to do it 2016, and she'd be expected to be ready for 2017 so that people can be clear too. It's not just because of the TSSI, it's all up to the peer philosophy to win. This is where it was claimed that the DEC report was being misused somehow. I've already answered that, that's simply wrong, and it's a fact that it's suggested that Iceland look at the arrangement. For one thing, it is on page 18. chapters 90 and 91. What does it mean to be sharp and sharp? There's one question that came up here. It refers, for example, to secular work and supportive service. In both places, for example, financial, publicity, and success monitoring are being carried out. There are two databases for projects and information to the DEC Committee. Communicating with international institutions is going through both TheSSI and the Ministry. This results in double - pained confusion and confusion. A critical consultation between two small units - there are nine people at the TSSI, eight members of the Ministry - both double pain and confusion and, of course, takes time from people who might be able to expand their ministry in other ways. Let us also remember that the purpose of total development is to implement government policies and goals. It was found that there was no disturbing comment on Article 8. This article is not being changed but one word. In case of a moment. A senator would have learned how the article is in the current law if it had been understood. The word is being changed in a ◯ policy. That's all the change. That article has not changed. It spoke of opposing methodology in the State Department and the TSSI. This isn't right. The exact same methodology is based on two - sided and multinational development teamwork. The only difference is that there are different people working in the field with governments and financing. The approach is just the same, so it's simply wrong. In this regard, diplomacy and development do not work together, there are other motivations involved. This included the chairman of the United States. Of course, it is not entirely true that work within the Ministry is contrary to what the TSSI is doing. We work in effect that the same projects, the same thinking and methodology, are behind all these development cooperations. It's based on a big misunderstanding. And I also want to state that I completely refuse that there is something worse than in Denmark or Finland where the methodology is used here. The presence of the Council in relation to the development committee and the changes made there are in mind that the Council should be made available for a targeted discussion in development cooperation. We are uniting the committees that are present today because this has caused confusion and in itself their goals in question. If this group needs to be different, with more members, or something like that, of course, we'll talk about it on the Foreign Affairs Committee as well as other changes in this idea. I'm not saying there have to be five members of Congress. This can be quite another way, it can be flexible. We've got to get through it. My point is that in Finland, a committee is exactly the same as the one suggested here to be established. Was there a lack of cooperation with a development team? It has been claimed. That's wrong. In addition, the report was specifically presented to a development team committee, and I met with the collaborator, where representatives from a development team committee are also serving. These persons have been well informed all the time as well as, of course, the staff of your team. In terms of success management, the TSSI has adopted the methodology of successful management, something considered to be the best and exemplary. A successful development team has also been introduced into the activities of Iceland's international institutions and is a member. This is not new for us, we will work on this forward as has been done so far. We stress professionalism and good work. There's also been a review of criticism and monitoring, including ... ofDAC. That's right, there's been some criticism from the DEC Committee at the time about the need for us to improve surveillance. This has been a failure. There have been protocols and commitment contract monitoring, etc. It's all been through and fixed, in accordance with the indications that were very good for taking proben. Of course, there is also international surveillance, so I don't go anywhere deeper into it. In this regard, people have talked about the information, just as they just disappear, as if they had stopped telling good things, stopped sharing good things in this work. I think it's a very strange discussion, I just have to say, apart from the fact that the State Department has a very good information sharing and is very good at it. With regard to external funding for projects, of course, it is out of the question to say that it cannot remain that way as this has been observed. For one thing, it was in my original case that we are going to continue our use of the English term for the European Development Cooperative Agency, ICEIDA. It is a well - known and trusted name. Of course, we will continue to use it because the field projects are very, very successful. I'm not afraid we'll have some problem with that, but on the contrary. Of course, we also stress the need for money elsewhere in the Ministry for projects carried out by the Development Research Institute or other sources. It has been discussed on the personnel matter, natural, and how the Ministry's Progress System complies with the contents of the SISSI. Both organizations have transport obligations, and both have a means of advancement. But this has to be harmonized, it is true, but I want to say it here because I've said it to your staff at all times in this discussion that emphasis is placed on the fact that the knowledge and experience inside the DSSI and in the Ministry will not be lost, that the other departments of the Ministry, or something. I strongly emphasize that those who are working on development projects today continue to do so, but neither should we forbid them if they choose to move something. That won't work, but we have to make sure that the strike sweat and knowledge remain the way it is today. Is the counsel on how to make changes in your staff being changed? It was claimed here. That's not true. In the manual that was referred to here on the basis of counseling, we follow the way 2, and then we can look up how it is. An example of fusion. We must realize that YES is a small government agency. As I said before, nine people are working here in Iceland if I remember that number correctly. We know that parts of other institutions have been moved into other institutions or agencies in the Ministry. There isn't an example I know that an entire agency has been brought into the Ministry, I don't know the example, but parts have been transferred, indeed. These issues have been discussed with the subject of evolution. During the past 20 years, the trend has been to move projects out of the budget, but this policy, which has been called grafting, has been revised everywhere in the Western world. Today it is recognized that this needs to be viewed differently, that the ministry and work need to be strengthened. These were many questions, one touching the budget. The development team is at a special budget. You don't take money to strengthen a embassy or anything like that. It's a big misunderstanding, it's not nice if the senators aren't aware of this. Of course, it cannot be changed. Did they consult the State Accounting and the DaAC Committee? Yes, it was consulted in the processing of the bill with a number of people, both domestic and foreign. These include General Accounting, Class Society, Presidency, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and a state with experience in similar organizational changes. This was done in a informal manner, so it's in the way. It was not requested for formal tips from the Government Accounting or other such. However, a public review made helpful indications. There has been much talk about one report; the minister is criticized for signing one report. It seems to me that protesters only quoted a report made on the request of a former minister. [[Foreground on: No.]] This is very clear, and if you are going to quote the Sigurbjörg of Dr. Sigurgeirsdóttir, I think it is necessary to say that because of the criticism that has established the report for the Ministry of State, Þórir Guðmundsson, independent of professional parties, the fine woman who worked for the former minister, she is, of course, a coherence. She was a member of the Constitute Committee, had a retest for the United States - and how is the report prepared? It says at its beginning that there should be no changes in your activities. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] That is not even to be done. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to look at, the only thing a writer was to do at the time was to write what the current minister ordered. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing else, and it just comes out, and it's stated in the report. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's what the file says. I don't have to carry it back, that's exactly what it says. Otherwise, I want to thank you for this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I hope that the matter will be handled very well by a foreign relations committee, including visitors, and all the opinions, both critical and positive, that have been presented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u90	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Secretary of state is in hot shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u91	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u92	I must say that I am a little shocked over this talk, especially over the extensive consultations he has made on this subject and that after all this great consultation, the bill is unsatisfactory. V.E.G. A minister was making consistent arguments about the fact that this matter is intended for ice cream. He claims that he had already spoken to all those involved, and then by day, an overwhelming majority of the concerned person is opposed. We know this from a developing research agency and from a very number of subjects who have come to these matters that they are skeptical about the matter. I realize that some people favor it, but the general mood is that they are highly critical of the bill. I'd like to say that when Icelanders become members of human rights, e.g. Now, for the last time against torture, the requirement is by the United Nations or by the human rights institutions in which we are involved, that independent members of the community care for oversight, regardless of the government. Now I'm not making shoes or suggesting that a developing cohesion agency become a state of state, an independent institution in the sense that there is no connection with policy on the part of the government, I'm not suggesting it, but I'm saying that it may be possible to have a certain distance between that and give further evidence in a different answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u93	A respectable president. Hv. The senator spoke here and spoke of the minister saying that there had been a consultation with all concerned, I think he used that word. I don't remember using that exact word. However, it was consulted with those who come directly to this matter, but it is also absolutely correct. A senator said there was no Hallelujah code at this proposal. There were many doubts, and critical voices were raised so that they were completely clear on my part and accepted. However, there have also been other voices that say that this may really be normal evolution based on how things have been common in our countries and in the people we work with, this is the trend that is taking place in most people. I'll agree and admit it, okay? A senator, that there are criticisms above the walls of this fine house, let us not doubt it. On the other hand, I think, at the end of the day, people will see that this is a way that will lead to greater and better development cooperation, will strengthen the overall development team, international and bisided, as we get that my stronger team working together on these issues. That's what I hope to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u94	V.E.G. President. I have experience with so-called consultations as former chairman of the BSRB. When governments talk about consultations with the labor movement on certain matters, that concept has been understood in a very different way. The agreement, as I understand it, has primarily been that the minister has contacted the employees, the persons involved, and has told them what he is going to do. It will be discussed. The other factor I wanted to take part in this very short answer to me is about the distance I consider more suitable for the Development Research Institute to be at the Ministry. I say that I don't feel that she should be a state in the state, I also see the suggestions on a consulting committee to be over and with ties to the council. [[The president calls.]] But the reality is that if we move inside the walls of the Ministry, where a minister is seated, the real power lies in that close.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u95	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. A senator to go through the last changes to the developing co-work Act, especially when the changes became 2008 or 2009. Only then could the minister be granted authority, and then the minister's duties were explained. I'll think about it. Senators can't see anything in that brief little bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u96	Mr. President. I had hoped to do so especially in the early part of my talk. Minister, he was able to have an intelligent discussion on this subject. But I'm not going to let him put me down on a plan he finished his talk on. I'm just going to say that I don't think the executives of the executives are questioning the professional qualifications of a person who is behind years of college because she's a fellow woman, as we have seen. I'm not gonna ask the highest. Minister of any party certificate, perhaps the adviser he has sought, has. I ask him only to read the introduction of that report, especially the addition under the name Use probe. In the talk of the Supreme Court. To me, a minister felt extremely limited. At the beginning of this discussion, and before the discussion at the council, it was the highest rate. So the minister is that all reports that would have been made to this conclusion. He got kicked back with it. V.E.G. A minister said in two answers to which he himself should read that his proposal was based, among other things, on a tip, the advice of the DaAC Committee. He was reassigned and confirmed earlier. It's time to go to the top. After being asked about double - doings and counters that there was no conflict, a minister bites his head out of his shame, saying that there was a double act in dealing with foreign organizations and that they caused confusion. I don't know what it is when I was a minister. Coming in here with these innuendos and not wanting to tell anyone but saying that the committee is supposed to check it out, I don't think it's the best thing to do. Minister, this is to the conclusion of his speech, for he in effect attacked a person from the university because she does not have the Supreme Court. Minister of the correct party cards. [[The president calls.]] How low can humans go?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u97	A respectable president. There's one thing I forgot in my speech earlier, and thank you very much. A senator for reminding me. It is absolutely true that I did not correct or misjudge myself when I spoke up in an interview that this fine professor, fine woman, had reported in her report or suggested that this should be united. You're right next door. Senator, that's not correct. This is shown in the excellent report that the report is, first of all, based on the objective of a foreign minister and is said to include, and it is one of five goals if I remember correctly, not to look at the changes to the current development programme, which is said to be somehow. In other words, it should not be considered whether it should be moved or moved. Later in that fine report, the reason why the conclusion is published on page 16 is presented. 10 in the report, you're getting it. Thank you. A senator reminds me to correct this and, at the same time, admit that I made a mistake in this interview. Regarding the term "DAC" committee, the OECD Development Committee, it is as I said, there was an indication from that committee, and they were saying that it was right for the Icelandic government to examine the organization involved in this operation. That's exactly what we did.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u98	Mr. President. In all this discussion, I don't think at least I and probably no one else I remember has filed an accusation against the Supreme Court. A minister has ordered and received orders from his adviser. I'd like to make the most of it. Minister of the past allows him to come here and withdraw his comments about Dr. Sigurbjörg so that there will be no repercussion, of course, it is necessary to pick it up when it is highest. In this way, a minister may consider a professional who cannot answer for himself here and for political reasons. I'm not going to tell you much more, Mr. President, but I'm going to review it before the council that I'm on the State Department. I know exactly what they said, and I'm not breaking any trust because the director officially said it was a bad idea. I'm not breaking anyone's confidence, even if I reveal it here. Then comes the highest. Minister to state that there will be a consultation with the YSSI. [[The president calls.]] And so was a consultation with the State Accounting, of course, he pulled a little ashore with it in the latter part of his counter-to-wour. paritaprevir Aggmme Jónasson. [[The president calls.]] But the highest. Minister will close this case, as in the beginning. He won't really skate on the ice of all the truth in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u99	A respectable president. A 2008 report prepared for the then secretary of state is on page 30. 5 with President's permission: The study has focused on the development network within the country's foreign service and aims primarily to explain the position of the seminary within the administration [...] However, at the gathering of information, the development team of other countries has been set aside only to a very small extent... Then it says on page 18. 10, with President's permission: Developing cooperation is one of the cornerstones of Icelandic foreign policy [...] at a policy conference at the State Department of State on September 21. A minister introduced his strategy for developing cohesion.◯ Step 5 says: It is assumed that Iceland's Development Cooperative Organization (SSSI) will continue to operate as an independent institution within this overall organization... A respectable president. I don't get it any other way than to the highest. A minister back then no doubt entrusted this highly educated and skilled expert to write this report, according to what is presented here. [[The president calls.]] It says that the European Development Agency is expected to continue as an independent agency. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that's what comes out of the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u100	A respectable president. This was strange reasoning with the minister, as was other aspects of his case. He says that all types of organizations were consulted, but they were all informal. None of this is shown in this report. He says: "Yes, of course not everyone felt the same way. There's no swaddling in the report. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of why this 21 question could not be answered that we asked, nine senators, before the case was discussed here. Was this because the only way the minister thinks is correct had been criticized? Is that what the Minister won't show? I'd also like to ask the minister if it's his general opinion that if there's something to look at or look at, it should be taken and broken. I ask the minister: " Why is it necessary to do what is okay, as mentioned above? How can he now at the end of his discussion say what he says, when he said at the beginning of the discussion, in his answers, that everything was okay, that there was no double - doing, there was nothing that would go wrong, everything would go very well. Now, at the end of the discussion, all of this has become impossible. Can he explain these changes to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u101	A respectable president. There's some kind of misunderstanding. A senator says that there has been a change of heart. Of the questions or reports that have been received, of course, the request to the Ministry has been received. This is a 21 question, a detailed report requested, so it is simply being involved. Then they ask why. A senator about the transition I entered into is not a change of heart. There was one more thing. A senator asked about, what was it again?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u102	That was that advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u103	Yes, the agreement. We interviewed and presented these ideas to the agencies I listed earlier, those who care for these responsibilities. I also made it quite clear that there were records of this and that, of course, they are. Regarding the institutions I referred to here, including Government Accounting, these agents were alerted to the changes. There was an informal meeting, and it's stated, with a state reexamination, where the matter was largely presented. There were very helpful indications that I believe have been responded. There is no doubt evidence that the discussion could have been more or otherwise, but in this case it was that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u104	A respectable president. I can only understand that the Minister's closing words were not consulted but that some institutions were informed what the minister thought or what the Ministry thought to do. I hear the Minister has made some comments, but we don't see them at all. There is no record of the great change here, why the indications were not heard, such as by the State Department or the Ministry of State. I'll just say what I said at the beginning of the discussion that this bill is completely neglected, and I think it's almost the highest. A minister to underestimate the extent to which it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u105	A respectable president. I can't answer much, but I can do so. A senator thinks it's a bad job. I can't do that much. However, it is quite certain that the indication was taken, because of that. A senator said that they had not been taken seriously; we listened to the comments made, as I know. I know they're going to go over it and criticize it on the Foreign Affairs Committee, I guess.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u106	Mr. President. I've come here under this team to talk about the highest comments. Foreign Minister for Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir of the administrative community at the University of Iceland's Political Sciences. V.E.G. A minister of foreign affairs says from the platform that the scribe cannot be ignored because she is a member of the union. You can't leave those words unremarkable, I will take this case up with the members of the United States on the Presidency Committee and request that the prime committee take up the call. It's totally unacceptable to the highest. A minister should talk this way about a scholar. What if she had been a member of the advance group, would that have been more important? This is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u107	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs goes off the scene and does not listen to what he is required to do. Yesterday he accused me of talking down to a scholar. I don't think I have spoken so strongly about the scholar with whom he rests his confidence on and on this report, as if at the end of his case and reason. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson went over a little earlier. I agree with what. Harðardóttir It is unacceptable for the government minister to allow himself in this way to speak down in this way and downplay the scholar of the Icelandic community, which is widely consulted in Iceland, to think that it seems only in the House of Congress's talk that the Secretary of State is saying that there is nothing to limit what is said or written by the person in some particular political group. This is not acceptable, and I agree that this must be arranged on the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-25-85.u108	Mr. President. I made this a subject in my speech earlier, but I agree with what they have to say. My fellow Witnesses at the council have said about this matter. There has been an unwritten rule in this hall that humans do not weigh people outside the council. Of course, the reason is simple; a person cannot carry his hand for his head. I see myself moved to protest. If I were the best. A president and a seat in the mighty chair behind me would have picked up the hammer, struck the bell, and made comments to words at the highest. Minister. People don't do this, they don't weigh that the job of scholars, let alone that they're political at the highest level. A minister may not like or dislike. It's completely out of the question, and I hope this case is taken up and the Committee to Presidency. A minister knows that this is not her mood. [[The president calls.]]
