ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Health asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 363, the collection of funds from Birgitta Jónsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms where request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 263, investigating a case at the Contestant Control, from Guðlaugur's pool of Þór Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u2	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote on the President's proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u3	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u4	A respectable president. There is no need to agree to a proposal to extend a meeting. We live so well at the council that this government is setting up a recordless record in this century, so there is no danger that even when issues are properly discussed in the day's light, they may not find themselves in urgent matters here. The reason for the discussion is that it has been extended to the specific part of the program that is first scheduled for today's global development team is that it is just a bad thing to do. There was no good work on a committee, it was a quick script for their treatment, and otherwise it will take a more careful discussion at the Assembly Hall. During our administrations, we have offered reasonable solutions to the administrative sector in this matter. If she wants to make such a poor move, it is only natural for her to take effect during a new term. For this reason many cases are resolved in this way. There's no need to stay until late this evening. The government assures us that no pressing issues will be held, and we can only work this case peacefully and peacefully here in daylight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u5	A respectable president. It's not the minimum. The minister of state, the traveling overseer of the matter, is there himself to call for a discussion on the subject for an evening meeting? Can we senators be confident that there can be a place to speak with the minister? It's better than anyone to say that his attitude toward the council, the institution involved here, and the source of information has extended his discussion very much, damaging the progress of the case. It's not a secret. I'll just say the word. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, it is absolutely unnecessary to take this discussion into the evening, for this is an offer of reconciliation made to us by the administrations when we have been in the government and we have made its administrations when they have been in the government on a difficult issue, that we are putting down a debate over this organizational issue, which is long - term in the way that the law will simply take effect in a new term period. Then the minister will reach beyond the present government opposition has the opportunity to accept the commission in the election to change it before it takes effect. [[The president calls.]] I think it would be different from a more mature management style to accept the classic compromise than running in tonight's meeting about nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u6	Mr. President. I'm one of them, too, who doesn't see any particular reason to have an evening meeting tonight. We were here until midnight yesterday, and it is expected that tomorrow will be a long day and a meeting on Friday so that a late-night meeting on Wednesday is not a very reasonable decision, I think, and not need it, especially if the main objective is to continue with the billing process of putting down a developing research agency. I think it might as well be out of the question if you're not going to use the time to try to talk to one another and find some surface on that matter, as this has been offered on the side of the government. V.E.G. The minister himself has taken most of his own time with his absence and the treatment of the council. In this regard, the matter is totally at the mercy and mercy of the council, showing that it is a problem for them to resolve the matter. Looks like she's not coming from the Minister or the government camp. I would think it would be more reasonable to use the evening for such negotiations and to refer them to a well-to-do, fair compromise, as to the treatment of this matter, to use the time and refer it to a committee to complete its release. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u7	A respectable president. This demand for a night meeting is likely due to the fact that the smaller part of the board feels that it is too much to talk about and that its time is bad. I once again claim that the greatest efficiency of time is the lack of communication that takes place between smaller parts and more parts. Last night a foreign minister sat here for some time listening to a discussion. It was a special request from now on. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. He asked five very clear questions to the minister. No one answered, but neither did anyone. Minister. It happens that most of my time, if not always, when the conversation is really happening, there will be a shorter discussion; then there will be some means of communication that will catch up with some solution. The problem here is not just that the smaller part talks too much, but that the more part talks too little. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u8	A respectable president. Apart from the bad language, we have been critical of how the case was handled through a committee. October 14th ran a deadline. The next day a meeting on the committee was held, and the subject was scheduled. A smaller section of the committee made comments that visitors had not been called. Then the chairman, according to the official committee meeting, said that it might be possible to have some guests, but the matter would also be settled at that meeting. It was always intended to be done, and it was then done the next day outside of the traditional meeting. The case was terminated. Is this okay for members of Congress? Do they remember offering themselves this offer if they were in my part of the council? I don't think so. The fact that the President himself participates in these tactics by planning to drive such a controversial case into the evening after the minority of the council has been exposed to another as much abuse as I am here to explain is totally unacceptable to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u9	President. I have to agree that I feel very sorry for the greater part, including members of the greater part and the highest. Secretary of State, fails to answer very clear questions from the memory of the section. This matter is very important to many people, and it is not just about laying down the Agency and moving it into the Ministry, but so much else. I think it'll help, Mr President, if we stop doing this kind of work. It is very ugly how this case was taken out of the committee, and somehow I feel that it is time we try to get out of our graves. Here's some suggestions that I think are worth the more part listening to. The most important thing to me is why. The members of the greater part share in the conversation, that's very important. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarson pointed to the formation of a conversation that often involves a much shorter discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u10	A respectable president. I did not intend to resist a night meeting, and I imagined that we would discuss important issues, such as a bill to legalize public finances. We have the budget bill and the budget, and all of this has to be done by Christmas, so I'm going to sit by this vote. I think the President and maybe the executives of the government need to be aware that we have a case here that is being resolved on a major issue. Is it not worth sitting over a cup of coffee and trying to figure out a solution? I think the council is a hostage because of this one matter. As I say, there are very important and important issues, and I would like, for example, for the public financial bill to receive a good and extensive discussion at the council - and not at the Shrewdeck Mass.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u11	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Hjörvar met the nail earlier when he spoke of the matter of organizational debate because I think the case is that a giant camel has been created from a tiny gnat. Many have been claimed to do so, talking about the absence of a foreign minister of 1st. and was here yesterday. It is said that there is no support. Then I have pointed out that this is the second time, both taken from member states, twice taken from the Foreign Affairs Committee with a greater part of the vote. It is said that men are offering a long conference meeting because the government puts so much into it. I've been feeling that the government's got a lot to talk about. I don't think it's going to limit it. Then, too, you must be ready to extend a meeting. I listened to talks last night until midnight. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to hearing the many talks that will be delivered today, and may the government speak and respond as long as she wants to in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u12	A respectable president. Camel from the swamp, I heard a lot of talk last night. In other words, when we protest the matter in a material way, we are making gnats to the point that men lead evolutionary cooperation, the support of the Icelanders to their smallest brothers in the world, into complete uncertainty. It's making camels out of gnats. In other words, when we protest, we make camels of gnats because people drive such cases through committees in opposition to the smaller part of two days after the notice ran out, without speaking to anyone who sent in the envelopes. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It's making camels out of gnats. This is nothing more than a pastime at the Council. That's exactly what's happened here. paritaprevir Inline the Þorvarðardóttir daughter, when she put it that way. That's how you experience it. The person who is supposed to be president of the council is now to participate. [[The president calls.]] Instead of trying to bring the matter to the ground, as we have invited, he intends to continue the evolutionary struggle into the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u13	A respectable president. It is fine that we, the chairman of the Parliamentary Party, agree that this is a organizational matter. The more incomprehensible it is that the members of the government, or forwarding organization, or rather one foreign minister - he is the sole sponsor of the matter at the General Assembly - choose to break up the peace that has been across all classes on this important matter for years and decades just to take effect on this matter until one year later. [[No.]] It is totally incomprehensible, giving evidence of haughtiness and bullying on the part of the carrier. For the support of other candidates, it is simply to say that no senator of the forward party has spoken to the long 2rd. on this matter to illustrate his support for it. No one but the carrier himself, for he is the only one who supports the case in the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u14	President. The speech that came from the night. The head of Congress is not helping. It doesn't help to the highest. The secretary of state repeatedly answers simple requests from members of the council. I don't think it's disrespectful to the council, I have to say just as far as it is, just like the most disrespectful of all. Minister took the job when he decided to shun the Council on Iceland's resignation letter in terms of partnerships with the EU. This is exactly the same contempt for the General. I think it's really serious. I won't put myself against night meetings, on the contrary. I feel, however, that when we're talking about something as important that has always been in common with the local people, we should be more careful how we handle these matters. We're supposed to do it in a crosspolitic way and make peace. I challenge the body of Congress, especially the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to find some way of making peace in this delicate and important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u15	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir St. Pétursdóttir's daughter, president of the Council of Bjart's Future, met the nail when she mentioned it so earlier that the council was being held hostage. This is about holding the council hostage, so this is a matter of keeping us from discussing very important issues both on the program and in the lake. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] I strongly support the highest motion. President. It is important that any members of the council who want to discuss this matter rather have the opportunity to do so during the evening and night, and so we will continue the next few days, if necessary. They are clearly more interested in this than in the general community in this case because I believe that the reviews given to the committee were four. This may reveal the interest of the public and others in this regard. It may not take much time for the committee work to cover four envelopes and arrange for visitors to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I'm sure that's the case, since I understand that there is a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. Then there is the opportunity for my body members to request visitors to meet the Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u16	A respectable president. I come back up here to draw attention to the final words of both. 3.m. Witchest. "Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son. He said that he would probably like to have a long meeting here so that the government's possession could speak till after a night in answer to itself. This illustrates exactly what the mentality is like when most part wants to have a night meeting so that the smaller part can talk more. If it worked as you expect it to work, it would be those who wanted to talk about a longer conference meeting. It's not like that. It is because this relationship between most parts and smaller parts causes trouble rather than simply talking to one another. Words go. The senator emphasizes that the viewpoint in the administrative part is not to reason on this matter or to promote his viewpoint or come here in a pita and declare support for it. The thing is, simply to tire out the opposition and ignore and ignore, and to ignore a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u17	V.E.G. President. I must correct the wrong things that came out of words. 9th. Smoke. So, Helgi Hjörvar, that no member of the board is supporting this fine matter that we are going to discuss until day and evening. I'm asking the senator to pay more attention because right away, I declared my support to it, so it's fine. I urged that it be agreed and urged to do so again, and if anything is, I regret that the case has not happened before, for it is both necessary and good. I'm asking the senator to notice that I have declared support for the case, and the minister of foreign affairs is not the only man in the Senate who supports the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u18	A respectable president. In this case, an independent institution with an important and delicate group of subjects was overreached, without the respect of the council to treat the matter properly. There is an overindulgent committee, a minister is absent on the matter during the main part of the discussion, the members of the committee are hardly seen in the discussion, and virtually no one who has spoken the language. Then it is suggested that this evening meeting should be held on Wednesday, for a recent evening meeting on Tuesday to discuss the matter well into darkness. Of course we are. It's a bad thing. There is a long time to talk about it and to argue that this important institution, which has been judged as a model, should be put down with such overages, and, of course, I object to a night meeting on that occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u19	Mr. President. I thought the council was supposed to be talking, that should be reasoning. In my opinion, it means, among other things, like majority agents today, many know who, that it is best to have it so that more things and smaller things talk together. Whether a conversation takes place from the Ponta Allis, or with the suggestion that has been made here, for the greater part of the solution to this matter, a conversation must take place. Many ministers have got this case in their hands. None of them, no matter where he has been, have decided to give up until now. Let me remind you that the reviews don't have to be many. It is about what is in them, and not all of them have recommended that the case be handled in the way that is being done here. Because of what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson spoke earlier, telling us that although he was not a man of peace every day, he took in at least the electrical laws, a system plan, and the matter was corrected in the council thereafter - through a conversation. [[The president calls.]] And I hope to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs takes it as an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u20	A respectable president. I second the President's suggestion for continued discussion on this matter. Clearly, there is a great need for this, and if necessary, we will continue to do so for the next few days and weeks. I really think we just have to face the fact that there are differences in the subject of this bill. There's been some progress, there's been in the council, and it's been in progress for the last assembly. It's absurd to talk about the whole case being somehow run through. We've talked about it in this room for 40 hours. For 40 hours we've been discussing this matter... [[Up front.]] Hey, do I have the word? [[It says: They're being won on the Committee.]] 40 hours, it has been discussed in 12 congregations of the State Department, and then try to talk about it on a foreign matter committee. At 12 meetings of the State Department, the matter has been discussed. [[Up front.]] All members of the State Department were able to request visitors to the meeting and were made available to all of them. All those who were asked to attend the committee meeting came to the Committee. There was no disagreement on the foreign matter committee when the case was run out. [[The president calls.]] It was not for any hard work but for a natural trial. I understand that the case should return to the treatment and discussion of the State Department. We will continue our discussion, but it is not about form but about the subject of the bill. So let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u21	Mr. President. I think government leaders are incredibly arrogant and arrogant: you can just talk in the evening and talk to yourselves and answer yourselves. Isn't this the General Assembly of the Icelanders, where we're supposed to take the argument? This issue is a matter of trying to achieve a broad political solidarity over it. This is the European Development Agency, an institution that has been praised from all over for good work and good business. Of course, we can continue to discuss this matter, but we call for management officials to have the courage to take this discussion, not just like that. Sæmundsson It's a good thing. It's a good thing. Why not argue with it rather than make declarations like that? There is no evidence to explain why this is better than the current arrangement, which has gained the international recognition needed. [[The president calls.]] You need to back up your own business, not just have some chloride.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u22	Mr. President. I think it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs and the one or two progressive men who have added to him and to his case, have come to remind them of an army of two, three, who are at war but have forgotten what is being fought for. It has become an obsession to get along with this matter. The tone in the discussion of these speakers is the strangest thing where both today and yesterday have been offered discussions on the subject that were in the most traditional spirit of the case when people handle this sort of thing; looking for ways to put it in a different direction, following events through changes of time, or other factors in the process. That's because I'm opposed to having this evening meeting. I don't think that's fair enough, and I won't give it back. It would be wise to use the time to discuss such topics or to discuss other matters. There's some of them. [[Up front.]] Although there was a blessed little coming from the government, there is something else to be here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u23	A respectable president. I say no to this night meeting. This is because I don't think it's fully developed that people sit down and try to discuss things together and reach some conclusion. I also say no because we were violent when the issue was torn through the committee, and it continues to go to the Hall. The president does not try to ensure our right to participate in a more careful discussion. I have to say that I have been terribly disappointed with the part of a president in the case because last night we repeatedly wished for him to give us his opinion that a case coming from a narrative was rolled almost without discussion through the committee, despite the objections of the minority part. Is it a work order that pleases president? I just want to know the answers to these questions unless the answer is on the way with the President going to take part in driving the case through the council at night meeting. I object. I must say, just as it is, the council and the President are very disappointing today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u24	A respectable president. If I thought there was a chance that there would be some conversation with the management part tonight, I'd vote for a night meeting, but I don't expect it, not after what we saw here yesterday when the highest level. Of course, the minister of state showed up at the council hall and sat here while he was still there. 4th, including That's the north side. Raised questions, they held a talk as high as possible. The minister of foreign affairs did not seem to be interested. No one answered, no one kept silent, and everyone was waiting for such a conversation to take place. But this did not occur, although it was quite clear that the purpose of having the highest power was the point. A minister of foreign affairs in the area would be having some kind of contact with him. He turned it down. Therefore, I do not believe that the administrative body will participate in the discussion, although it is a matter of extending a meeting. So I vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u25	A respectable president. I'm glad that the results are that we give the smaller parts and those interested in discussing this matter rather than the opportunity to discuss it until evening or night. I think it is very important to give them the time they think they need, but, of course, we have other important issues to consider at the council that we need to establish as soon as possible. I hope that any members of the council who are going to express themselves in this matter will make good use of that opportunity and then bring the case to the committee as soon as possible. There will be an opportunity to discuss the issues raised in this discussion, where both ministers and other guests could probably be called in to learn and discuss conflict issues and review them. The matter would then come in the suit that most of the Committee then makes for the council as a vote for the 3rd Environment. I don't see reason to delay it much longer, but I'm glad we're going to give a smaller chance to discuss this in the evening and the night. [[The president calls.]] [[For example: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u26	A respectable president. I have under the laws of the government that are not confidential but that are not official. The media are calling for this information. Can I photocopy them and hand them over to the press? [[Take it up, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u27	The president does not have any answers to the status of the documents. A senator refers to, but will obtain information on this so that the president can give a clear answer to the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u28	Mr. President. This week I've raised a conversation with an older citizen and a poorer person, and for good reason. I have come to realize that the situation of these groups has not been acceptable in any way, but I shall admit that in the past few weeks my eyes have become more open to the poor conditions that are far too many people in these groups. My eyes have been opened to that last Saturday at the open meeting of the Institute of Micromanism at the Grand Hotel. What was revealed about the ideal disability made me very sad, thinking about where our community is going. Do we really want a community without separation, where our children and adults have the opportunity to share, enjoy life, and do their part in spite of any inborn impairment or impairment due to accidents or diseases? May we never forget that we can all suffer an accident today or tomorrow, or suffer health damage that affects our ability to work and thus the opportunity to participate. Do we want a community to adapt to our needs, to our circumstances and children, and to share with them what we can and will? Or do we want a society that rejects us and our children, judging us to an end, and much less quality of life than there is a reason? Mr. President. Our choice is ours, and our responsibility is ours. A community without separation where there is an opportunity for all to be included is not an initial job with a specified start date and a fixed expiration date. It is our subject every day of the year, not only to us as we sit here, but also to those who are in charge of employment markets, who run business companies and institutions of state and rural society. I will again challenge all members of the Parliament to accept the decision and challenge of the Microcollar Alliance's meeting last Saturday, thus ensuring these groups, the elderly and the microchip, a man - made life, and thus take a big step in removing them from poverty and social isolation. Then I remind you that today is the UN International Day for Sexual Violence. At 7:00 p.m., there'll be a light march from Eaglehol and I'll challenge you all to show up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u29	Mr. President. I'd also like to discuss the interest of the elderly and the poor. This year, pay increases to the number of unions in the country have been negotiated, with about 12 collective contracts. On average, a 14% increase in pay has been observed in the 12 partners that have achieved a similar increase in their unions, the minimum paid, the staff, the Flea Association and others, agreed to make a salary for their members, to a minimum of 300 you. K. after three years. Now it is true that the government is not going to give elderly and poorer people the same elevation as any other class in society, and that is not the lowest paid. The pay of the elderly and the desperate is to be increased by 9.4% from the next millenniums. It is far from comparable to what is being said about raising the lowest wage in the country. It would have to be a minimum of 14%. Always leaving those groups behind is not a good thing for us as a rich nation. This is not even so that the number of elevations since May 1, no, no, no increases should occur during the eight months, starting March 1 of this year. It should apply from January 1 to the next year. It is a disgrace to us and to this government. Then, at dawn, a council decided to raise our salary to council members and other top officials in society, ministers, judges, priests, managers, to name something, and a number of others, by 9.3%. Is that to be true from January 1 next year? No, of course, from March 1 this year. [[The president calls.]] This is another example of the inequities we see. I think the government should have a proper view of this in the legal process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u30	Mr. President. During this morning's emissary conference, it was noted that the proportion of female observers in the media has very little relief in the past 15 years. The results of the analyses of the Ministry of Health and the Media Department were reviewed. Among other things, it is interesting to examine some of the conclusions that give us an opportunity to understand the social talk and see what will come to pass there. For example, at the time of the survey, there were 12 men and one woman on the stage of the Wave. Seven were from the board of directors and one from a position of government. In Reykjavík in the afternoon, the 11 men and the two women were men. Each one of its members, with seven members, and with three administrations. In view of the number of interviews with these 13 interviewers, it is seen that 151 members of the board have been interviewed, whereas 43 the administrative point. The peer law is clear. In part, it says in 24 C.E. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ Any gender-based differences, whether direct or indirect, are prohibited. The media are to be the so - called fourth power. Therefore, they should give women and men equal opportunity to express themselves. What also highlights in the survey is that only one woman from the government side will make it to the top list. The management factors that receive much listening, such as on the Wolf's Hill, are all men, who, in my opinion, now have to pull up their pants and put up an attack on getting more women for total use. This is also true of the State Radio, since there are proportions that are also uneven. This morning's newspaper showed that the situation is comparable to that of the year 2000, and we can't enjoy it. The only medium I know of who's doing well is Ring Lane. He is doing a great job when it comes to equal proportions of women and men to whom he is relevant. I understand that's where the wall is going to hang on a summary that's going to have to be followed by all the party directors. The situation today is that they are 594 women and 609 men. Less likely it could be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u31	A respectable president. This time I'm going to discuss the activities of the council. In view of the earlier details, we often talk very long and thorough, at least at the administrative point, about matters of great controversy, but the experiment is that there have also been a number of prime and noncommunicational proposals, or that could at least be severely treated on the part of the council. There are 57 primes and 77 Congress decrees 1st. or previous discussion. There are eight cases of both types of bills, saunas, and Parliamentary decrees, and one case of each type awaits the 2nd. or some other round. Here are suggestions such as separation of investment banks and business banks, a case that we should be able to discuss objectively; a day dedicated to education about child rights; a person would have thought that it was a relatively undisputed case and could receive excellent treatment at the council; an equalment in the registration of parental connections, the UN Convention on the rights of the disabled people, i.e. to commit the government to validate the agreement that I don't know of any differences; proposal to validate an optional book making on the United Nations Convention on torture, once again a conflicting case that could have gone through at the last council if the General didn't actually work in the way that it did; and most certainly a proposal for the Code for the Generals. A moving man is none other than the especially respectable president himself. One of the primes is waiting for two. ... awrong.; fair compensation for crimes in institutions or households under law No. 26/2007 (Resultment by Landakots School). That's what we could take into account, but we won't. I think it's because there's an elephant in the room - it's called the liquor bill. [[The president calls.]] We are to complete a discussion on this and therefore come to a committee in order to continue the normal routine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u32	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by referring to the fine discussions yesterday regarding important issues, including public transportation, which sounded good for a global application program and greenhouse gas emissions, which is a very ambitious plan presented today. Then I'd like to take this opportunity and say the word. Congress members who discussed law enforcement and are especially delighted to serve. Governments respond to an urgent need to promote law enforcement in this country by 400 million. K. increased input. I also welcome the developments that have occurred during recent losses and changes in challenges, which include a recent report by the state police officer and yesterday's discussion. It is obvious that the police really need to think that failure is the result of this trend, with increasing resources to strengthen the general law enforcement force and to maintain acceptable initiative law and to strengthen the police's specialized departments in all ways. Many of our basic needs and infrastructure are urgent. V.E.G. True, a government has responded to existing financial laws and language groups. Here I mention the health issues in which the health system is being strengthened and enhanced by the increase in expenses for the majority of themes. It is especially enjoyable to see the emphasis on health care in this subject. It is true that the majority of the cases involved a collective agreement weighed heavily on budgets, but there is certainly an opportunity ahead of the economic situation with the improvement in the interests of the state's budget and a decline in debt. The structure and development reversal of society's institutions and institutions must take steps in terms of economic development and increased ability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u33	President. When the president of Iceland gave a speech at the beginning of a council, he directed to the members of Congress that he did not feel it appropriate to vote for a change in constitution as well as a president's vote. I criticized the President for his involvement in the work of a committee then employed and still exists. In any case, it seems that this work has gone into total trouble, at least it is clear that the Constitution will not be changed during the election unless there is some kind of miracle, and members of Congress will even be at work until the end of the year, because time is over. I'd like to bring this to the attention of the senators. There, the president of the Republic is directly involved in the council's activities on this matter. I find it very serious, and it's amazing that we senators allow it to be unconcerned, which often requires the accusation that we are just some sort of a time stamp or that we are trying to show restraint on the plunger that comes from the company's authority. I haven't heard a single senator of the greater part criticize that mission to democracy, none. It breaks my heart. I have to say, I think it's a little sore. We're supposed to be on the council. Us senators are supposed to be on the council, and we won't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u34	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make the Monsters' position my subject today and wish to have a place to say. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's granddaughter's bramble. Recently, Iceland's government decided to propose the Prime Minister's proposal to take integrated measures to support the construction of Gímney. The beginning of that work is due to the fact that on April 8 of the past, Polish members of the North Eastern District met together with representatives of the Akureyri Town, Eyjafjörður Professional Development Society, and Gímurvement to discuss the difficult situation in Gímney. As a result, an action team was set. In him sat down. paritaprevir Thor Þór Þórhallsson and Steinhrimur J. Sigfússon, two representatives from Iceland Bank, one of Eyjafjörður's professional development partners, and a representative of the camper, were cooperated with the Gimor Islands'neighborhood. The task force produced a report to the prime minister by the end of May. As a result, the minister appointed a professional group to be assigned to organise and consider the suggestions of the group. In short, the proposals go out first, strengthening the position of development made by Gímney, which will be distributed to 400 tons of stockholders, which are being prepared to issue the same Regulation at the same time. Second, to add transport to Gímney, third, to carry out a practical check and a reduction in house - to - house heating costs and fourth to do the work on fracture risk based. In cooperation with trade agencies and the Ministry, a team of prime ministers submitted their proposals to the government, which adopted the 17th November. The proposals came from the local people, and professionals are then working to make a move. The methodology I consider to be exemplary, and I expect this to be for my good at Gímney, the northernmost settlement of the country. It may be that the town government of Akureyri produced a consistent conclusion that welcomes results. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit on her attitude and of the Council of Hearts the future for this work process and the arrangements that have been presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u35	A respectable president. I'm primarily going to answer for myself in this matter. This is not a matter established by a group of Bjartar's futures or a common opinion. I know those things as natural as what they are. A senator and we all agreed on this, senators in the district, that it would be a great deal to build a foundation in Gímney because it is a very special situation there, and it is important to have built in that place. I have to say, though, that I haven't seen a detailed implementation of all the suggestions, which are in the spirit of what was spoken of. Of course, there's a dilemma over the loans and the bank's position and so forth. It's a good thing to make transportation to the island. I believe there can be support in a local travel service. I hope that the measures will make for longer periods of time, for I have at times felt that we have based policy, which is just a patch on the wounds but not fully and that often is not to be thought but five years into the future. It's always hard to take specific measures. We know that very well, me and him. A senator who took place in Deepvot. As a nation, I have not felt that we have met Dr. Deepavog as if we should have done because there was a huge shock to the community. The complaint is still in Gambiey, but there is another problem where there is a payment. But the greeting was immediately removed from Deepvogur, and with him a number of active workers, and many people moved away from it. There I still feel like work to do. I feel that we could make this more sound and have better plans ahead of time, but certainly the problem in Gambiey is something that needed to be dealt with. I've been positive about that. I don't regret the settlements of Grimney, but I hope these measures will be to trust the settlement and that they're not short-term solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to make up the subject of a new projection of Istavia on a number of tourists next year, which are actually designed on the basis of the flights, which matters. The rate of growth in foreign tourists this year is 30%, and the projections for the next year are up to 22.2%. According to this, the next year foreign tourists who visit the country will be 1,540 thousand. These figures raise many questions about how we are equipped to cope with the increase of rivers each year of this magnitude, for this is a product of empire growth. Most agree that during the summer, things have been going on so much, if not beyond that. Sadly, our equipment and how we have used time in the past few years has been inadequate in this regard. For example, it is clear that there is almost a lack of policy in the group. Humans have completely screwed up what has come to be involved in income or currency and control through such things, with virtually ablation in those materials after the highest level. Minister surrendered with the natural pass. Some administrative agency that is supposed to be surrounded by no policy will not make much difference if it costs 80 million dollars to run it. I think it's really urgent to take these matters to a very thorough conclusion if it's not too bad to go for various reasons, considering what the country's infrastructure can put up with, and thus improving the disaster crisis of road maintenance and lack of transport plans, but I'm also beginning to wonder very much whether we Icelanders need to start thinking about how practical it is when this branch grows so rapidly and its importance is growing so rapidly in the economy, the radius she can be, and the mind of various defenses in the relationship. I won't bid on it, Mr. President, if this situation is to continue, even for another year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u37	A respectable president. Just a week ago, the Fé of amateurs kept Smith-Magenis syndrome an educational day on their two-year anniversary. It was interesting for me to have an opportunity to address the meeting, but today there are 100 members of the organization who protect the three persons who have been diagnosed with the syndrome in Iceland. Is the reason for many members of the community what the syndrome has to do with the perplexing burden of it. Because of its late discovery, the disorder in 17th chromosome is highly malformed. The symptoms of the growing syndrome are sleep disorders, mood attacks, self-harming behaviour, aggressive behaviour and developmental impairment. Sleep disorders are caused by the body's making melatonin a sleeping hormone during the day instead of at night. It is more tragic than tears to enter the position of parents and families who completely miss out on a normal home life. The fact is, if there is no help in getting broken families, one parent may leave home with the sick child to protect his family from the trauma and weight of the syndrome. Some parents have had a nervous breakdown and are temporarily paralyzed by overwork. The attacks of aggression and self-harm occur many times a day and may persist for up to 30◯45 minutes. No family or sibling should have to watch that for the long run. In Norway, it has been found that with the help of professional workers, rages have lasted for 15 to 4 minutes and their effects have been reduced. The syndrome was discovered in 1986 in America, where medical science is the longest available in the analysis and treatment of text subjects. Therefore, it is important for health care professionals in Iceland and the families of these individuals to be able to observe and study the progress that has taken place by attending international conferences for the best care possible in Iceland. Let's go to Norway, where teamwork is started to help families, parents, and siblings live normal lives and that the texter is treated properly so that he can enjoy the best life possible. [[The president calls.]] This is done best by increasing our education, supporting families, and creating a comprehensive treatment for the syndrome, as do the Norwegians.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u38	A respectable president. The happiest vultures in the world seem to be the hedge fund required in the SWA. They seem to have reached such favorable agreements with the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson that they are now flocking to the country at a demanding meeting of more than 90% of the crews and agree to these agreements by the 990/10% votes. This is a contract that they get to get out of the Icelandic crown before anyone else, get out of their heads, and they seem to appreciate it alone as a means of success for them. There seems to be no conflict in the ranks that must be of any concern to us as to how Iceland's contract has been held in this nation's largest interests, the renovating of the fallen banks. The last part of the government came in here with a legal adjustment and moved on to counter the law to lower the so-called agreement ratio, since the management sector feared that the crews would not meet enough, and not agree enough to meet enough people to meet the requirements. It was because the demands had told the board that this was the case. This too seems to have been an absolute lack of appreciation for the satisfaction of foreign demands, with the offer made to them. The need for this adjustment, on this compromise for foreign demands, cannot be seen on this decline in the policy of consent. It was not 85% that supported the case, more than 90% showed up, and 991⁄2100% of claimors said yes. [[The president calls.]] What does this, a respectable president, say about how the cause of Iceland has been held in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u39	Mr. President. I would like to make the position of young people a subject because we have often kept inspired talks about young people's positions. One was held this week at the highest. One prime minister said that it was only natural for young people to examine the world after reaching out to pay off their debts here. In this context, I would like to quote an article that I read this morning during the hour after Jóhannes the son of Benediktsson, which says that young people's situation is not at all as elegant as the prime minister wants to be. In part, it says that the oldest age group was achieving its weapons, but the younger generation is not doing that at all. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ During a normal annual trip, the number of assets of a person who is between 20 and 29 years old increases by 4 million per decade, but these numbers have dropped to over a million in the past ten years. This clearly shows what is going on. In this context, I would also like to talk about government policy regarding LIN, the loan Fund of Icelandic students. What is government policy regarding the study of young people and Icelanders abroad? The loans and futures for people learning abroad have gone a lot over the years, and you ask yourself, " Is my policy really that there's nothing to do with education in other places besides here? ' I think that's a very bad course because I think it's important that people have the opportunity to study abroad. We simply do not offer all the study we would need to be able to offer here. I agree with Prime Minister that it's good for people to see the world, but I think it's something more and worse than a sense of adventure. Here we face a deep - seated problem, and we have to start talking about him, face him, and take action because otherwise we're going to be stuck with a community that I don't think is a good thing for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u40	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make a subject for the National Music Museum in Kopavogi. This museum was created in 2009 by treaties between the then government and Kopavogstown. The extent to which this agreement has been fulfilled does not agree, but one thing is certain, Kóppavogsville is now giving up on the progress of this collection in the way that he has made it in the past few years, and it is headed for its collection to be neither a bird nor a fish after a year and not to meet the requirements for public collections in Iceland. This museum, the National Music Museum, is hidden in a pearl. Many precious things and valuable things are found there. Those who have worked for this purpose have gathered oral literature and information about Icelandic music, which is nowhere else. They have saved countless things from destruction. The collection has also been transferred to the giving of various items, including the collection. owned the son of Sveinbjörn Sveinbjörnsson, who composed the Icelandic national anthem. The museum also contains artifacts from Erlingur Blöndalur son of Bengtsson genius, which this museum was moved to preserve. It is next certain, Mr. President, that this museum was not brought all these items to be placed in some box somewhere because men cannot afford to run the museum. That's why I'm entitled to the Senate budget and the Supreme Court. The Minister of Education to find a way to ensure that the museum can remain stable in 2016 to allow time for State and Kopavogsville to agree on how the museum's future operation will be assured. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u41	A respectable president. After all, in Iceland, we are in a very jealous situation. Economic growth in this world is greater than in any other part of the Western world, and economic prospects are good. That is why it is important to make good use of the song we now enjoy. We can afford to give people the opportunity to pursue higher education. We do not need to continue to limit access to higher schools, as the government is now doing or reducing the number of colleges. We can give everyone the opportunity to benefit from their abilities and study. We can also meet the natural demands of the Land Hospital for necessary management funds, and we should not provide him with the situation that the governor of the Land Hospital needs a few times, week after week, month after month and year after year to declare an impending panic state at the Land Hospital if men accept the same government's unchanged budget. It is frightening that three years in a row if it was the government's declaration on a budget bill that the Land Hospital is not able to run according to the nation's basic needs. We can afford it, and we can fulfill the natural promise that elderly and disability pensioners enjoy the same minimal ones as those in the labour markets that they are fully equal. We've done it before, including. in a time of great surgery, 2011. There is no excuse for having already been a minimum wage agreement that the State does not live up to pensioners. We can afford it, we have circumstances to ensure a righteous sharing of good things, and we are to make use of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u42	A respectable president. This morning, we had a representative from the Vella-Hallways to cross the situation. There have been conflicting reports, some negative, of course. I am kind and obliged to tell you that now things are going well. The task continues to reach some 40 yards per week. It is in denser rocks, and temperatures are turning down the Eyjafjörður side. It is good news that tells us that the outworking of the work will hopefully be in a different way than it has recently been. There were cases of unforeseen occurrences, such as the outflow of hot water from the rock. Even if people were caught in a water well in other comparable soils, this may not have been in such a way that water so much had come. It was the Eyjafjörður side. Then people look forward to leaving soon for a new year. This means that the project will not be delayed for more than one year, which is extremely positive. It is also informed that the water found is useful for consumption and is likely to be used in such a way as to have a lack of water. They find themselves in the same area as the West Coast tunnel, where cold water was missing and fine water was found. I just wanted to tell you about this wonderful meeting we had this morning and that the project is now going to be very, very well, all indicating, and also that the project will be more useful to social projects than was previously thought to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u43	A respectable president. It would have been nice to use the extra hours that we are assigned to the Senate tonight for this matter because it is so difficult to go over to such a short time. This is a major issue because the effects on weather and natural life produce changes in people's habitats and can result in crop failure and drought and, as a result, a quarrel about land and quality of life. Such conflicts are usually the root cause of the world's conflicts and conflicts with war. How vital it is that we meet the current trend! There's a lot under there. Happily, there is a great general awareness of the causes and consequences of climate in this country. In a poll conducted by Gallup for Iceland's Natural Protection Association at the end of September, 67.4% of the respondents have a strong need for the European government to take action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The next Monday begins an important United Nations climate conference in Paris. That's where it's at the highest. Minister to give our business to the Icelanders. It is the basis for this discussion. The aim of the conference is to ensure that, on average, the rise in the atmosphere will be below two degrees. However, people, especially small islands, are like. In the coming decades, Maldives and Marshalls who go under water will have nothing to do, who believe that this is too high and the goal should be one and a half degrees long. Thereafter, statements over 150 member countries of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change are made. It shows the reality that the increase is actually going to be less than three degrees. We are so far away from our objective. That's why I think, and I want to ask the highest. The minister of her stand that Iceland and I are to be included in the islands that require the objective to be one and a half degrees rather than two degrees because we have so much to resist the acidification of the sea. We have tremendous interest in fishing, and the result is the acidification of the sea. The article itself is beginning to worry. Our interests are so great that I think we should join those who insist that our goal is one and a half degrees in Celsius. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it's up to us to do so. Then I'd like to ask myself, " What is the minister's policy on this matter? ' Will the acidification of the sea and any concern about it be recorded in Paris? Then I'd also like to mention that today Ministers introduced a strategy for reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. I think she's missing a lot. It is spoken of as being three - year - old, an overexhaustible holed in it. It can be read that it is the basis for the 2010 Action Programme, so I ask the highest. Minister if the 2010 Action Programme is still valid, and this adds up to it. I must also say that there is no public transportation or anything like that. Then I would like to ask myself, " Why did we not work together on this program, on the contrary, and on the branches? ' I think the conversation with my community is way too small. For example, when it comes to climate policies, Reykjavíkurburg is decommissioning the state. They have an enormously extensive climate policy. We need measurable goals in the program. The seaside road has set measurable goals for itself. They have talked about the need to reduce fossil fuels use by 40 yards. About a ton to 2030 and it's fine. That's more than what men have achieved so far. I would have liked to see that we set rather measurable goals. Reykjavíkurborg set a good example and is gathering companies to support these changes. I think the government runs the train when it's supposed to be in front. The time for the dolleriosis actions in this field has passed. We need to tear down the parking brake and take real action. [[The president calls.]] We need to work on this cross - lattice, cross-cutting, dense array with our rural communities as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to discuss this large matter of ours. I would like to assume at the outset that I had already proposed to the President of the Generals that I present a report on this matter. However, it was decided that this was the case. I would have made a report to the General before I would have gone to Paris because I would like to have a word with a body of Congress about this big affair. I'm very sorry if a leader finds the ambitious program of six recruitments under our management at the Environment Ministry holes. I think that people have been working very hard on it, and years of work here, these ambitious plans have come to light. Granted, there has been a strategy, but neither money nor anything else has been put in it. I think there's an event here. As I received the case, an apocalyptic would like to talk about Iceland's goals, the Paris climate convention, and Iceland's contribution to the climate convention. I'd rather go over these three things. Iceland's target was proposed in June, as reported earlier, to be with European countries and Norway about 40% of emissions. That's what we're doing. Then we began to consider what we could do better about Iceland itself and put new energy into projects and many new ones that have not been discussed before. We want to look at our strength and how we can use the strength of the land to strengthen the weaknesses we feel and want to improve. Therefore, these projects will help us to see how we can use our renewable energy even more fully. Everywhere you go around the world, you look at us, and we envy having so much renewable energy. When it comes to emissions, we talk about how countries can reduce energy waste and use other energy, preferably green, and we have it. How should we further use it to reduce the use of transport fossil fuels in both automobile fleets and fishing roads? That is why we want to set off and hold up projects that strengthen the infrastructure of electrical vehicles and also work on road indicators that reduce emissions in both the marine and agricultural areas. In my sense, the program is now very broad and divided, to three factors. First, there are ideas on how we remove emissions and can also bind carbon more fully by growing agriculture and forestry. Second, the question is what we propose on a global scale, where Iceland is available. Third, how we strengthen wood to have better advice, such as one of the senators could consider, a rule of order, and another to measure, and how we have achieved from year to year to work toward our goal. Our goal is to be in the highest order of the nations. We're starting to work with the European nations. I've told you earlier today that I want us to try to get on top of the environment. I really think the government of Iceland is doing this when three ministers have a press conference to present what lies ahead. We'll have a variety of events in Paris. Among other things, we are responsible for a presentation of five factors, i.e. In terms of the earth's heat, believed that our knowledge is the most complete thing, our land healing, we will be with the Weather Service for a follow-up on glaciers and research work on this. Then I know that the sea will be presented to you in a very special way and then to the north. [[The president calls.]] In my second speech, I relate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. The advocate of this important discussion and the highest. Minister for her answers. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir when she asked earlier why the EU greenhouse gas reduction programme would not have been implemented in a transnational discussion. This is exactly what should be done not only in cross - lattice agreements but also in cross - study, and it is a rich desire for members of different council groups at the council to arrive at that work. What really matters is that action follows words. V.E.G. A minister went over an excellent goal here. But I ask, " Where are the funds to put in the electric car? ' Where are the funds that are to be placed in the infrastructure necessary for Iceland's generator? Where are the funds to be placed in public transportation? We know they're not there. Public transportation is being cut off from the agreement made between state and city of Reykjavík in its own time in the capital area, and we discussed here in a very special discussion yesterday. The climate crisis fund has been half reduced. Where are the funds to follow this operation? I can tell you. There's money now at 2nd. budgets and they are all earmarked in a forestry project, all tied up with ears. It lacks money and real measures to reduce emissions. Industrial emissions are still not mentioned because they are in special disposal volumes. We cannot overlook the fact that industrial emissions are 42% of the emissions taken here. Although it is in a special disposal manual, it is now one of the same atmosphere. We also need to look to the future in this regard, how we will reduce our industrial emissions. I'm celebrating and pursuing goals. However, I would have liked to see that Iceland set out to become a non-carbon objector, as with some left - green senators in a fine congregation here. I'm the highest. Minister to read it over. We propose that the Allied Parliament unite and develop a strategy for Iceland to become a non-carbon object in 2050. It will be worked in a broad plot. If any country has a real chance to achieve that goal, it sure is Iceland. [[The president calls.]] That's where we're supposed to set the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u46	A respectable president. I think of the miracle gathering that was held here during the days when I listen to government spokesmen in these matters. In order for miraculous meetings to work, these visitors need to believe that something remarkable is about to happen. This is where you don't believe something's about to happen. You can't see any action in the way of the words dropped. There is no need for humans to determine exactly what is going on in these materials. It's so easy to talk. Words are so inexpensive. For example, when you look at it as the highest. The prime minister said of this group in foreign lands and at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs has said and since what is explained at the time of the return, you realize that people are willing to say just something and then will not do anything. Many things have to be done in these areas. For two and a half years, the government has made a resolution since it began this terms, that it is going to take action to promote eco-friendly transport. Nothing has happened in this regard. I urge the government to put activities into great words that are put down here. For example, there is a shocking difference between what we Icelanders are doing in comparison with what Norway and Sweden have claimed they intend to do and the goals they have set in these matters. There's a shocking difference between taking part, a small island in the middle of the Atlantic, the European Union's actions and what the Norwegian say they're going to do, but they're going to cut themselves off 40% by 2030, or what the Swedes say they're going to do. I'm the highest. a minister of the environment to make action follow the words she makes this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u47	A respectable president. In answer to the highest. In my last month's inquiry for total greenhouse gas emissions, it is stated that emissions from the most advanced land are 72% of total human greenhouse gas emissions. The marine road is responsible for about 3% of transport, public cars, 4%. It is proper to assume that in this answer to the Environment Minister, the latest United Nations assessment of emissions from advanced countries is being used. When this is the case, I feel that most of these materials are being crafted in this country. Similarly, all righteous ones must be confronted with action against car owners, homes in the land, fishing roads, changing total emissions of virtually nothing. I am very sorry, however, that in the information that the Environment and Resource Ministry has distributed to the press lately, this week and the last, these most recent and accurate information on total emissions is not used. Last week, in a clear statement by the Ministry for Media, emissions from the advanced country are said to be zero, none. This is not only in shouting discrepancies with the answer to me last month but also in response to my previous inquiry from April, where emissions from the most advanced country were said to be 12%. So within the past six months, the Ministry has gone from 12% to 72%, eventually to 0% today. It's not an acceptable roundabout in this important matter. I believe it is important that all of Iceland's high-priority representatives at the Paris Conference next week be informed about these matters and have the facts clear before they discuss them here at home or at home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u48	President. Thank you for your discussion. They're important. I was disappointed to learn that the United States does not consider the agreement that will be reached at this meeting. I think it's serious. However, we can view the agreement we have for the future in Paris as a guide, not only to that but also to binding. As mankind, we are at a turning point. If we do not act now, the quality of life of future generations will be far worse than ours. Keep in mind that the wars that have broken out, including In Syria, much of it is due to climate change. It was a drought, and in many parts of the world, famine caused people to feel the drive to protest the tyranny they faced there. Since then, many things have become very complex, but originally it was the common people who wanted more democracy caused by hunger over food shortages. I think it's very important, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, to word. If we don't do anything, and if we don't have a clear view of where we're going, we're not going anywhere. It's just not available. I ask, for example, where is the green economy that we started with? Where's the plan 20/20? Where is the vision that we started working together? Is it not allowed to work on it because it was made during the last term? What kind of bullshit is that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to reflect on the aspect of this case involved in Iceland's European Free Trade System, where about 40% of emissions are in the joint business systems of Europe. Companies are given authority to meet the requirements, one by the reduction of emissions and the other by government trade. Despite the best intentions and goals of this commercial system, sometimes known as the climate climatic system, there is good reason for concern. You see, the system has some things to do with another cry code system we know. It's a news system in Icelandic ocean outlets. The main failure of the climateovate system is that it allows commercial management with climateovates from countries or regions that are low in pollution areas, which can lead to the maintenance of reduced pollution. As a result, the aim of less emissions could be to increase emissions from other sources. In other words, the climate - climatic system does not include shrinking but, at best, halting. It is not an acceptable goal, as it is today. This is what I believe the government needs to consider very seriously. And I think Iceland and I have a lot of money to figure out that there are ambitious goals for climate success. We're supposed to go beyond averages. The erosion of the sea and changing the conditions of the marine ecosystem around us are already having a dramatic impact on the marine life system, which, of course, affects our fish stocks and thus the land's livelihood. It is urgent that Icelanders take a stand on many levels, set ambitions, and follow them by putting activities into words. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u50	A respectable president. As soon as I thank you for this important discussion, I'd like to wish the highest. Environment Minister to congratulate you on this magnificent strategy. She's incredibly ambitious. It is going beyond ever before. When men compare it to individual societies and what they've been doing, I think we should be looking to what Iceland's been doing before. If we make that comparison, we can see that we are truly making progress. We are well on our way, and this plan is ambitious enough to get us in line for the great nations in this regard. We've been high, we certainly have. Iceland has reached 100% electricity production and heating from renewable energy. But there are a lot of things in this that I think people must agree on, despite the criticisms that have been presented here, and there is certainly the right step. I was just reviewing the policies of other political parties. I think it's safe to say that there are many policies on all categories, and that's a good thing. Not all of it, I know it. Some members of Congress have taken the step further as they go. But the fact that we're taking over the policy of most political parties in Iceland must be highly positive. So, now, with parishion plans, they must be submitted first before they can be financed. Yet, the fact is that in this case actions follow the above words. The financial bill gives this testimony, and that's fine. In the next few years, of course, we will try to add to this group of litigators. [[The president calls.]] I like to agree on that at the General Assembly, such as the great agreement on the environmental protection Act the other day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u51	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank you for a very important discussion. First of all, I'd like to say this: This was a political debate when it came to the highest level. The prime minister declared in the foreign field that Iceland was going to reduce emissions by 40% and then withdrew, or Jóhannes actually did. A respectable assistant, with a reference to the joint objective of the European Union where we were going to travel with the European Union and Norway. Second, I'd like to say that the transfer is really there. We're not talking about the measurable targets of Iceland yet. What are the real emissions targets of Iceland? Norway has gone beyond Iceland. Norway, in its object declaration, suggests that Norway itself will reduce emissions by 40% but also declare that the land will be noncarbonized in 2050. That's the real goal that Iceland and I should have been ahead of the Norwegians to say. The Swedish government has also gone further than the European Union's goals. There, governments have locked arms together with the industry to achieve a non-carbon share of carbon stock based on renewable energy, where the job life is drawn to the table to make its own objectives to reduce emissions. This needs to be done here, and it's missing completely. A policy is reflected in money. That's why I say, "Let's see the budget and the government's declaration of change, " let's see what the emphasis is on there. It is primarily to increase binding, not to reduce emissions, not to increase the importance of public transport or transport energy exchange. [[The president calls.]] There is absolutely no ambitious policy regarding transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u52	A respectable president. Thank you for your discussion. I just want to get inside the wetland talk. Wetland problem is big, but if I get it right, it's not in the deal. Not the grouse and not the wetlands. That is what we need to examine. However, the industry is in all manner of efforts to reduce emissions and emissions of greenhouse gases. And that is not to say that we should be concerned about the fleet, although it has a small share of total emissions. We try to fight at all fronts, it's a question of what we can do in the wetlands, and we can actually do something when it comes to cars, it's relatively easy, especially with new technologies. I sent the highest. Environment Minister requesting government policy in purchase of eco-friendly vehicles. Of course, the Kingdom is a big buyer. You might wonder, " Is there no less in business for electric vehicles, though they may be more expensive in shopping for, for example? ' The police that have to drive very much. I didn't think the answers were good enough, and I didn't show that decisive policy was going on. The climate is getting a lot closer to our consumption, consumption, and habits. It's a big deal that each one looks at himself and tries to do something. No one can do anything, but everyone can do something. I have been disappointed that when ministers have recently purchased new ministers, they have not chosen the environmentally friendly advantage, they have not followed the lead. I think it's a good thing. That is why I find it difficult to listen to declarations during festival hours that we are going to do so well even when people can't even turn to it themselves, taking little steps toward less greenhouse gas emissions, which I think all today have agreed that it is very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u53	A respectable president. Climates are important. I think everybody agrees on that. This is something that the world's economy watches and is going to participate. That's why I think it's very important for us to keep our policy straight. It is the responsibility of the government to have a clear view of the future that the industry and the economy as a whole can look to and see how they can guide their efforts toward that course. It's not all about public money. It won't all be recommended. This is not about how much money the government puts into operations to reduce emissions. This is about how we get people in our community to share with us in this activity. This has to be everywhere. That's why I think it's important that we do this in a way that makes policy for each subject and that we're consistent with ourselves. A fine example is the vehicle that is often referred to. If we were to make it easier for people to renew their vehicles, they always buy vehicles that are less contaminated whether they are cars that use fossil fuels or electric cars or others. We're not supposed to put the focus on one route. We're supposed to be the best results, not just betting on electric cars, maybe some better results. Maybe it's more polluted to produce the electric car. We need to have competition and clear goals. That's when the person who makes this energy starts spreading the infrastructure. We should not start by creating wood, but we do not have a policy on how to increase environmental benefits. We need to get this straight. Similarly, there is an example in the fishing road. The majority of projects cannot afford to buy an environmentalized ship because they pay so much for the government, and that uncertainty is always so great, builders don't know what they're going to invest in in in the long term. When we discuss how we are going to succeed in climate change, we need all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u54	President. I kind of have to agree with things that were presented at the Vilhjálmur. Árnason We're not supposed to get stuck in one system when it's time to replace gas or diesel trucks. I think it's very important that we find a common vision of where we want to go, just as when it was decided to replace oil generation with thermal sex. Then it was a major and costly decision. Because we're so few, we could go on some project that would save us very much for the future, apart from the fact that the air would probably be better if we got rid of some of the pollution that comes from diesel and gasoline cars. There are so many things to think about. I think the steps are at the highest. Environment Minister has suggested that we assist the Minister on, all as one, in our common journey. How vital that we as a nation agree on where we want to go to the future when it comes to the quality of life for future generations! Of course, we do not want to leave behind such a situation that it is difficult to obtain clean water, that we live under extreme weather conditions, so that the sea around our country will not survive. Of course, that is not the way we want to go home. As individuals and as lawgivers, we need to consider in what kind of community and future we want to live. It's good to just start talking to friends and family about how we want Iceland to be in 25 years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u55	A respectable president. Thank you for your great discussion. It's good to hear that here is a considerable harmony that basically builds up what I mentioned in my previous talk, I think we should get along better with each other in these matters. We're supposed to be working more cross-cutting and cross-cutting. Reykjavíkurburg has taken that way, except for making a very good policy in these matters and also practical ones, to choose to control the situation in the city. Recently, 103 companies and Reykjavíkurburg were signed for a target on climate issues. I think it's incredibly well done, and that's a good approach. I think we're all members of the council party at the council agreement then. paritaprevir Elín Hirst on a North Sea acidification strategy. It is good and blessed that three ministers hold a press conference, but in my opinion, the state should be increasing and the State should be more concerned with everything that is taking place in a larger and broader way. These projects are also being carried out in Akureyri and elsewhere. This is not going to be done for people in their own corner. That's what I meant. I'm talking about a poignant application program because I feel like a lack of publicity about public transportation. The plan does not have measurable goals, as I noted earlier that the sea route itself had set for itself. It's like we're always chasing, and I'd like to encourage the Minister to celebrate this and offer our strength in the United States to try to achieve this handsome solidarity across the ranks. A respectable president. I want to finally thank you for this discussion and reiterate what I said at the outset, we need to start tearing into the hand brake, and rethink completely how we approach these matters if we are to achieve the results we have made. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to repeat my question to the minister because it wasn't answered. It's like this: Is it possible that we agree with other island countries that ask us to be under one and a half degrees instead of two degrees instead of two degrees? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u56	A respectable president. I also want to thank you for this excellent discussion that proves to me the complexity of the climate. They've got a lot of sides. Indeed, in all this work we have cooperated with one another, and we have associated various associates with our work. The important thing is, like, what's wrong. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason came to, set a course, and then you find money and others working with you to that course. A vision needs to be clear, and I am absolutely convinced that if you have it clearly, you will reach that goal in one way or another. We've also worked very hard on our jobs, as I say. During the next few days, it will be revealed regarding the water - exporting and the agriculture, and more, that no one is making this statement. This is a cooperation project. One thing I'm going to tell you is that a lot of people are going to Paris from Iceland. We're not completely made, we may not have to find Paris, we're going there to learn from other nations and see what they have to offer. We've taken into account the benefits we have in this country, what we can share in the international community in things that we may be better at than many others. We want to try to strengthen our weaknesses. My mind is set so that nations can now be united for good goals at the Paris meeting. I agree that I think it is absolutely necessary that the nations of the world now become involved in some radical activity on climate issues. [[The president calls.]] We are at the very point where we must step forward and take seriously emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u57	A respectable president. Now we're going to keep talking about this strange thing, but I notice that there are very few people here. Senators of the Management Board. Of course, it is not that we are standing here, rolling back and forth certain ideas and advantages and weaknesses, but we stand here as the government's side and talk about this without a response, at least it is not taken seriously. I think it is worth it and more necessary in myself than talking more about this matter to discuss how we talk about it, or rather, how we don't talk about it. Yesterday, this case was discussed until midnight. 4th, including That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, asked to speak to the highest. Secretary of state. It was clear from the beginning that the idea was to communicate with the highest degree. Secretary of State, but it seems to be a relatively radical idea in this town. Yeah, then it happens to the highest. The minister of state is in the area and is here for discussion, but he does nothing more than that. Today, the administrative body often sees that there is a filibuster in the off - hold. Of course, we have often considered that there is an underlying problem that continues for four years between elections. Apparently, a respectable president, I'm not going to give myself the correct understanding of myself, but it seems to me that the more part goes by that if he participates in the discussion, it just gets longer and more part is involved in stalling. I think this is a big misunderstanding. I think it was proven yesterday that there was a misunderstanding. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Stetggis gave a talk, so if men had been going through a long run, they might have expected others to turn back and make good use of that time and so forth. But that did not happen. Talk to me. The senator concluded, and then the next senator's talk began. 7. That's the north side. Kristján L. Möller. Nothing came from the highest. A foreign minister who was sitting there to participate in the discussion, who had been invited to the meeting to participate in the discussion. It's a permanent situation here at the High Council, that the discussion will not go on because it's only on one side. But I ask, "If yesterday's purpose is to be given a speech." paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son was stalling, why didn't anyone answer him? Why did everyone wait and listen to the discussion? Yes, because people were waiting for the highest. Secretary of state, that he would take an answer as has been observed during his last terms. Although I haven't been here then, I know that ministers back then faced their political opponents to have that conversation. Of course, humans do not always agree, and that is fine. But there will never be any compromise, and there will never be any solution, whether in the case of itself or in the manner of action here, if people don't even talk together, at least in public. For the sake of the matter, the same things in themselves are still the same as considering and being. I would love to hear from the highest. Secretary of State, of course not here, why he feels that this cruelly ill is the idea to do what is suggested in the bill, i.e. to choose the possibility that Þórir Guðmundsson suggested in his complex report. A project was being moved from the Ministry to the DSSI, the European Development Agency. We have not discussed this in detail, at least not at the highest. The minister of state, or other supporters of the case, who, of course, are many, even though they are not here and declare their stand. Unless we're already paying a vote for the duration of a meeting, the members of the board will come and state that they support the matter. But when a discussion takes place, they don't go into it. And if you know, I guess that happens if we in the government stand up for a talk and talk about the President's conference board that we're going to get accused of talking about the matter in a material way. But from then on, I wondered, " What is the reason for this stubbornness? ' I think that part of the reason is one of the most awful feelings a human being feels about and that's pride. If the greater part now paid attention to some of the ideas that might cause this matter to be settled so that much more green light would be on this fine table, he would be giving up somehow for the violence of the smaller part. I myself believe that people who cannot make compromises should not make decisions, at least not for others. That's why it's called pride just so repugnant in my opinion because it means taking part in a discussion because they don't necessarily get everything they want in the first hour. Besides, not the highest. The minister of foreign affairs or other supporters of the case have explained why they are not prepared to consider what seems to be a good idea of putting YSSI into the Ministry of State without putting the Agency down. Last year, it was a matter of re-routing everyone, something like that, but now it's another story. Now, the story is that nothing is really going to change, so it's so small that we shouldn't be talking about it. But it remains that workers could not be consulted at the beginning. Then we've got a problem. The idea is not seriously discussed that the Ministry of State will enter but will not be put down, which is particularly reprehensible in my opinion because it is the example Þórir Guðmundsson speaks of when he proposes it. He says that other nations have done this, but what other nations, like Dan, and the Norwegian people have not done, are laying down such institutions. What these nations have done is that they have certainly put these organizations in the Ministry but not put them down. And if that's the only point of conflict, and it's hardly a big thing if the whole matter is not a big deal, then that's hardly a big deal. Then I wondered, " Why can't we discuss the possibility? ' Why not discuss it here or on the committee? If that is the case, why not discuss this again? No. You'd rather have this subject planned and then discuss public financial matters, which, of course, is an interesting subject that I hope to receive a better treatment than this, and in fact, I expect and expect it. In the last few minutes, I can only take back what I spoke about at the Senate program earlier, which is the situation at the General Assembly, especially so - called members of Congress. In an explanation for the audience, the Senate is simply a bill or a synopsis, a matter submitted by private members rather than a government. This case regarding development as a government case, such as the case known as public finance, is the case regarding the development of development as a government. But this is to be so that the State is not the highest organization in the Republic but the World Council. That's the idea. It's not quite correct in praxise, it's actually very wrong in praxize in my opinion, but it's the theory or ideologies that the Republic of Iceland will probably work on. I mean, that's not the case, in fact. It is 134 members of Congress, either as an arrangement or as a prime complaint, that waits for 1. Around, 134 of them. It is a theory that this is blocked because one of these matters is the so - called alcohol bill, which is a bill for the sale of alcoholic beverages, including at grocery stores, and allows private sales for alcohol. It is still at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. u., a discussion that cannot be held forever, where the session will begin. The members of Parliament are limited in 1st. I don't see why people don't just throw it on the program and finish this discussion. Yes, she probably took her time. It's very controversial and correct. So put it into committees and begin to address issues that are not particularly controversial or that at least do not create heated debates. Now that I have no more time to look into that material, a respectable president, and thus finish my case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u58	Madam President. Hv. In his speech, a senator called attention to the fact that I asked questions to the highest level. Secretary of state last night, five counts and a clear question. I have come to think of how they have been living here to interpret the natural dealings of members of Congress with a minister when discussing the World Council, which is being heard by the secretary. As far as I can see, there's a few things I need to remember about that in pars. The Constitution of the Republic of Iceland says that there is a republic with a political government and a 14th paragraph. that ministers are responsible for the administration of all. A law on the General Assembly says 49. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The activities of the European Commission are under surveillance by members of the Parliament, members of the Parliament, and members of the Parliament. The role of the Generalis is to advisers who are responsible for the administration, cr. 14th par. constitutions 3 mg. says: ▪ The Council's Affliction Work for Advisors includes public matters. - That's so much more detailed. For 50th. says: In the matter of Congress, with special discussion, in response to council inquiry, and in reports, whether of personal initiative or by the request of the members of Congress, as well as in case the initiative of the regular committees of the council, the secretary should submit the information available to him and have a significant significance for the interpretation of the matter. I have always understood that this would be very thorough about the qualifications of the senators prepared to perform their duty of monitoring, to require a minister to answer. Since it is legal that this should take into consideration the matter of Congress, I have considered this to be a very strong procedure. I want to ask you why. A senator: Is he not of the same mind? Are we in a gray area where we have the right to ask for information and answers from advisers and to receive them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u59	A respectable president. I'm afraid there's some understanding in a constitution that I consider weak and gray and have been from the source of the republic. That's why I think it's so important that we revise the entire constitution over and over again if we need to. In my opinion, this indiscretion has been a sign that we have an unpublished constitution; I don't know how to put it any better, though, that experience has later become a great deal of the judiciary. Granted, men have found out how they will interpret, so they are often afraid of a new constitution for fear of having to interpret new things that have come straight from the current constitution. I think this is one of the problems. Especially when it comes to the relationship between Congress and the government, I believe that one of the big things is larger than the people in general think is the separation of the state and the legislation of the Council. By this I mean the fact that ministers are equal members of Congress as well. They have a vote and are very close to members of Congress. I'm sure there are ministers of some sort who consider the heads of Congress to be members of some sort. I think that's a very untrusted arrangement, and I think that means that the government is always determined by whether the government can protect itself from distrust. That, in my opinion, is a very unnatural premise in itself. In my opinion, a government should be able to function as long as more of the council is not necessarily the same as the government. The fact that people focus on this when they're making a government in Iceland seems to me that we're living in a great form of power that I find very disloyal. I believe it is absolutely necessary to revise the relations of the General Assembly and the Government and believe that there is a review of the regulations of a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u60	Madam President. I can agree with that. A senator to see that our old constitution is simple. Several aspects of our administration directive are not recorded there, in fact, in neither constitution nor Congress. These include the rule of Congress itself. However, we have been considered to be based on a highly mature administration tradition, that it was the predominant understanding of what is based on the Constitution and the natural interpretation of it, according to the system of government we live in and near countries. In many cases, Denmark is looked upon if we are in doubt as to how interpretation ends with parallels. True, this is not true in this case, for here I was quoting very clear lyrics and reading together the key principles of the Constitution and contemporaneous laws in these matters. I believe that it is in any doubt that the right of members of Congress to respond, ask for their presence, and get information on matters as presented here is very strong, intended to give the Minister support, while it is necessary for the council to have all the information and, for example, to get a clean course of the minister and plan before giving him any authority or law to put down a development agency or to do something else. I don't think we're in the problem here that we're using some very obscure layer of constitutions, contemporaneous laws, or tradition. But what I'm nervous about is when I feel that I'm starting to see an opportunity to change the interpretation in my opinion of the protocols I've always been here, the ones I've learned over 30 years here to be relatively independent. It is a completely new era if ministers are to have only a matter of self - control as to whether and when they will come if their presence is requested at the council and whether they will respond to their heads or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u61	A respectable president. In fact, I was wondering about this conversation yesterday, after the incident I mentioned in my speech about why. A senator who has no choice at all. Minister of Foreign Affairs, whether it should be in the Senate simply that a minister was obliged to comment on the matter himself. There are members of the council to communicate with the minister, unprepared queries, written i.e., but that is not enough to discuss material for more than two minutes at a time. The day - to - day meeting for each subject is designed to discuss material matters with a minister. A minister might suggest that there is a problem. A senator would be quite free to send a written request or something like that, but it would be a premium, a premise, that is, of course, likely to pass the constitution. I'm not gonna put myself in judge's seat about that. Actually, there's something else missing in my opinion that we can't build the most important factors of our administrations on tradition. A tradition is easy to break, and when it is broken for a long time, it simply ceases to be a tradition. There must be some rationality in this, and a constitution must be made clear on such a matter or, at least, legal evidence with a constitution, and then, of course, legal decisions should be made in case of the matter of opinion. Building things on tradition that we do very much here, much more than I think is good, is risking that when men simply start to break tradition, tradition will be traditional in itself. I don't think this relationship would be tolerated with so much of the council if ministers weren't members too. If the lawgiver's separation and the Commission were clearer, in fact, just completely explained and completely, I think this would be less of a problem, not necessarily a solution, but certainly less of a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's already so already that the discussion will start with a speech and answer them that it's so hard for you to find that there are only two who are talking together because I think this democratic conversation is so important where we communicate and talk, hopefully, to a conclusion. I feel that this is a process that in itself is extremely important and that I so often want to be able to get into the conversation, but I guess it's not possible, and maybe it's a long way up to the point where we can get into a party that allows it. At least there is some conversation going on today. I want to move on from where I left off. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson regarding the separation, i.e. The minister of the council, and the senators, whether ministers should be councilmen, for I am a little worried about this. I think it's crystal crystal crystal clear in this case, since opinions are very important. Don't we need the Senate more and because the Ministers are part of the council when it comes to controversial issues that we disagree about? I'd like to hear a little more from what we're talking about. A senator on how he envisions this because I find it difficult and complicated in this kind of conflict.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u63	A respectable president. I don't think it's complicated. I understand, though, that people always worry about changes they experience as some sort of fundamental change. I mean, this is no fundamental change, but it's that it's simply an accident that the tradition arose that ministers are equal members of the council. I don't really believe that the arrangement was what it was really meant to be. Today, our constitution has become widely established, and much experience has come from the way it works in practice. I'd like to say that the experience is that the Council is not close to working in a way that you would expect if you were to design the Generals from the ground, if the Generals were designed to do so that there were argumentative aside and back again, and men were to be convinced that what or to communicate with them, and especially that the World Council was to decide things rather than that the government was primarily to decide things that I'd like to think about right now. People at times worry about the idea of separating the legal authority and carrying out the authority because there would be more of those in the administrative sector in the sense that you would gather members of Congress and Ministers, who are then prospective independents and candidates, and they would be more of the independent people and more of the candidates. This concern is totally unfounded because the main point or one of the main points is that ministers do not have the right to vote. I'd like to make it specific that this idea appears in the bill of the Board of Directors to a administrative law that is a matter that we tortured very much. There would be no more power, power would be distributed, and power would be cut off. It's not a lot of people who decide what Algill's conclusion is but a number of votes, and if ministers don't vote, there's no growth in themselves, there's just more to talk, but you don't think everything is drowning in the debates of the government section.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answers and has to admit that I may not have listened well enough or that I have not figured out this varian at any time. A senator, as if he could see this, ministers wouldn't have a vote. That, in fact, explains part of my situation to me. I'll admit that I've been worried about where it would lead us to have an enormously strong share, i.e. If it were the Ministers, plus all the senators. I feel that we're already in some kind of trouble, having the majority of power in the democratic conversation tradition, I think that the process is too often taken in the power of the more part of the decision, fucked with the less part. I don't think it's good enough. I'd like to hear something about the issues. A senator of this because I suspect this is one of the things he's been wondering about, i.e. The involvement of the democratic discussion and the making of democratic decisions by the majority, with a greater proportion of votes. I'd love to hear more about it. But then we don't just discuss political issues, but rather let's get to the matter itself, and then we would say why. A senator's need for compromise. Well, where could we land in it, anyway? A senator, making compromises and only getting to the other side, would it be best to have evolutionary cooperation and its best interests at heart?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u65	A respectable president. I think there are two ways, maybe three. One is simply to discuss the matter more carefully in committees, especially the possibility of strengthening YES, which would also be in harmony with the suggestions of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson. I don't know if it's really a compromise, but at least I'd suggest it as a possible compromise. Two other avenues, which I find to be unequivocal, are first of all, that I would be admitted to the Ministry of State rather than put down as an institution. There would be another approach to the suggestions Þórir Guðmundsson offered and would also be in harmony with what other nations have been doing, but as already noted, there is an example for the idea in the bill, it is just that it is not completely consistent with the precedents. If we were to follow the examples more closely, we would actually put TheSSI into the Ministry of State without decommissioning the Agency. There's one compromise. The second thing I've heard of is putting the law in order to postpone a validation until the next election period, the next larger things would have to be accepted too after the next election of 2017. For example, when it came to the protection laws of nature, it has been done at times to help people continue working with them. The protection law in my opinion is one of the most beautiful examples in which the media operates and enables us and enables the Allied to have the unique green color of this fine table for a vote. You wouldn't have thought that possible during the last term or at the beginning of this time when the idea was to eliminate them altogether. This is how compromise can produce real results, but it needs to be willing to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u66	President. I'm here in my first speech on this subject. I have to say that after observing the discussion, I have been very disappointed in how it has been handled here at the General Assembly. I have been disappointed simply because the development of a research organization and the development of our Icelanders have always been outside the grips of political strife. This is the first time I began observing the council, which this important and delicate topic group has suddenly become a bite bone. This is not to say that the matter is purely technical. Based on what I heard during the time I was able to observe meetings at a foreign press committee, which were far too few, it was found that much of the expertise that is now present in the Bureau did not accompany us into the Ministry of State. That's bad. It's also very bad if you think about it, and now I'm a very large system anchor, and I'm really fond of looking at a system, that, when an institution is taken and accepted into the Ministry, it loses much of its independence against the prerogatives and ministers. That's too bad. It is clear that in this country, we need to do some research and research on how our system works. I feel that there is a need for rationalizing when we make such big decisions, although this institution is not a big one, like many others who have been taken into the short reign of the present government, such as. On Fish Room matter. It hurts when this is done without proper evidence. I haven't been able to get the reasons from a foreign minister who'll convince me that this needs to be done and that's necessary. It's been said that if something's not broken, you shouldn't try to fix it, because you could break it. I'm afraid we're doing something that'll be difficult to turn around and act afterwards. I think we should follow a suggestion that came from what happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and waiting on the case until the next term. What I believe now is that the matter will be addressed and given careful work in which crosspolitic agreement is needed. It's not just about moving an institution, it's about a lot more. What I find so sad about is that when we were crowded around, we sensed and understood the plight of those who live in the most poverty in our world. We would then want to move closer to those nations whom we would like to look at when it comes to our goals on how much we take of our resources and how we help those nations who live in poverty. Let's not forget that we were so fortunate, this isolated, poor nation received Marshall aid that helped us out of poverty more than anything else because with it we could build wood. That's why I was so beautiful, and I was so happy when we agreed to be alone, except for one senator, to be generous. However, we were not more generous than we were sharing less of our cookie than we were all around. Then it is that although the government of the present government is acquiescing and holy at the International Parliament and in the media, and beyond the extent to which it is far superior, we can all at once be unsatisfactory. Then we will not have the empathy to understand the importance of supporting nations who are trying to get out of the situation we once had. We have never been discouraged when offered help. How hurt we were when our friends refused to lend us money, so that, as English is said, by the permission of a president, at the time of a massive collapse! How close we are to the nations that were behind us in our trials! That is why when things go well and there's an excellent view of the budget and what it was like after a crash, we're going to reduce our generosity. Then we're just going to take care of ourselves. This is actually in line with a remarkable survey that I read that during my last term, it was so long ago. This study of generosity was conducted. The most generous were those with whom the most had the most difficult to share. Something special. But I guess it's human nature. It is up to us, the council, to help with this nature. It's our sixty-three, actually minus ten, where the Ministers are almost never here, to grant the urge to be lenient when you have a lot. This tendency, of course, shows very different emphasis on quality sharing. The present government has decided to remember those who are the worst and who do the most for those who have the best. I think that's a terrible development. For example, today there has been a considerable discussion of how we, who receive raises under the Board of Elders, receive them back to March, but for some reason I have not heard any member of the Parliament or any member body member of the budget discussing that the same thing applies, e.g. the pensioner and the pensioner who receive their wages from a insurance agency. Of course, a person would be happy if he and I were to share equally with those who are in trouble here and anywhere else. Of course, people must realize that it is not the policy of this government. Of course, you should not expect a government that doesn't have it on its policy list to do something like that. Still, let's try. That's when I'm winding up in a developing cohesion agency. I see at the top. The minister of foreign affairs has entered the hall, and I would like to reiterate that he would answer the five questions asked. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon yesterday. That would be of great benefit to us. It would also be very pleasant, and it would be necessary when we are trying to find an landing that could be settled through this specific structure if you were to have a conversation at the conference room with the greater part and the minister who would like to go this way. Somehow, it's got the highest. Secretary of State managed to converge a body of Congress more than once. It is unlikely to commemorate experiments first to offer a correct conclusion, which is the Parliament, on the part of breaking up the European Union's affairs and then simply making a mistake at the council. I would have thought it wasn't legal. If it is legal, it is immoral. In order to resolve the interpretation accepted by the council, another proposal must be proposed and accepted. I feel that kind of governance is totally in the spirit of an old Iceland. Many of us in this country talked a lot about New Iceland after a crash. The methodology we experience here regarding the development of a research agency is an old Iceland in a nutshell. We often witness this now. I find it so strange to be at a council and experience that we don't go back on but backwards. That is why I believe that many people are losing hope that things can be changed. I think it sucks. I'd like to suggest that we do. The head of the State Department will find a way to make sure that we can land with this case. Now the smaller parts have given me specific suggestions that I feel are worth considering. I suggest this, too, in view of the reason. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, then Minister of Internal Affairs, who made a parapolitan committee of a very difficult lawsuit in making new laws on the affairs of foreigners and the legal frame all around which is something that has often ended up in a ditch because it has not been able to reach the transpolitian reconciliation and agreement at the same time. Happily, this group of members of Congress continued working together in good cooperation with members of the Ministry and current Minister of the Interior. I feel that it is important to think that there was then an internal minister who emphasized that this was a different practice, a method of working in a way that was trying to achieve a precipitous agreement, especially with difficult litigation so that we could get out of this conflict tradition. But for some reason, when the person is on his own to continue on that journey, he is determined to rip the matter out of a committee without being mature enough. That's why we are, dear boy. Councilmen and president, arguing about this matter. That's why we're pulling our feet. The matter was not allowed to develop on the Foreign Affairs Committee. It is a natural course for maturity. Still hasn't missed it. The head of the State Department and the members of the greater body of committees as well as other members of the greater body would like to allow the matter to grow on the committee. That's why we're standing here and protesting how the case has been brought forward because you're sure to experience, and maybe it's rough to say that it's the majority of violence, it's breaking fruit that's not ripe from the tree. It is extremely difficult to put fruit on it that has been torn off the tree. We need to find a way out of this category. We're in so much trouble that I don't know if we can fix this. It stands up for the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee as well as the Supreme Court. Secretary of State to find a way to put this matter into an acceptable course. My body members and I have called for a conversation. We haven't got her yet. That's too bad. All these new senators who are here, and especially of the forward party, have failed to demonstrate that they want different practices at the General Assembly. They're not here to talk to us. Nobody wants to talk to the smaller part when the smaller part wants it. I think it's kind of lame to be in the position of standing here and talking to people you know agree with and want to reason with and develop the case, but no one wants to have a conversation with us. I might as well read from the phone book, which, in fact, is endangered, would have the same effect on most parts. I could read from some strange literature, and it would have the same effect on most of it. He doesn't care what we have to say. This is where we live something that I hate, that is the absolute majority. I must commend the former government that there was an attempt to overcome some of the lesser parts of the business. It was tried, it wasn't always done, but you experienced that you could have a slight impact on the progress of things. I hoped that those senators who were with me in a position of government would behave differently when they came to power. They would correct what they complained. No. They're just worse. Really, was all that the senators and the presidents of the former government resistance said just empty talk? I want it to be held in place that what I say here is something I mean, I want the council to be a stage to shape an important policy that all classes can come up to solve. If we don't figure out a solution, we need to take a break. We need to allow matters to develop. We need more experts to give us a good view of the issues we are making in making major decisions. That's not why we're going here. Maybe that's never how it's gonna be. Congress officials may accept just being stamp pads for the execution of the ceremony while it should be done by the execution of the Council's will. Nothing bothers me more than the fact that I was opposed by the Generals. I can't stand it. The General has no authority. Senators of the greater part of each time will yield and will not leave their responsibility to maintain mature democracy, where we will find ways to work parapolitic in affairs. I think it sucks. I sometimes experience the democracy we live in as some kind of dictatorial monarchy of many ministers. Then we dance after the council. Isn't it a matter of time? I think it's amazing that we're in a situation worse than before a crash. Worse yet, when it comes to the surrendering of their authority, the members of Congress are declared righteous and holy. We're the legislature. We're not the license pad. Now I challenge the major council members to stop acting like plunger pads.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u67	President. Thank you. A senator for her excellent speech. There's kind of two things I want to ask you. A senator about. On the one hand, the senator took note that it would not be enough to do development work in Iceland, i.e. that we would be subtracting, and we would not be doing what we should, and we would not be giving in the presence of a table, as if it were a pleasure in the society of the nations. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether it feels that there is an interaction between the very content of this proposal here and the facts as well. A senator crossed. The minister and spokesman of the greater part, the few who have spoken up, reiterate in their language that it is just a matter of shape, not of content. That's my first question. On the other hand, I'd like to ask you a few questions. A member of the council because we have tried to find some landing ground in the matter, which way the senator considers more efficient. We have mentioned a suggestion that has been made both at the highest level. The president and others handling the case simply suggest that the case be held forward, but with a postponement of a validation. That is a way we've used in the past, where there's been a lot of opinions and it's a democratic approach. If so, we are, in effect, demanding that the matter be replaced in the next election. I want to ask you why. A senator will see if she can see more ways in this complex situation than the way that has been mentioned today, but the answers have not yet been received. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u68	President. I thank you for the question, and I think the postponement of a validation is a good solution, too, because the case is not working too well enough. As mentioned in my speech, you need to grow better. This was done by nature protection laws, and I think it would be a good thing to do it, too, because I think all of this project is not ready. Regarding the total development team, I have not seen it in the case of the presidents of the present government or members of the council that the will is to adhere to the standards we set for ourselves. Let us also bear in mind that much is said about refugees, such as those from Syria today, but if you look at a worldwide map on the flow of refugees that was recently revealed, you will also come from the countries we are trying to help. I think it is very important to help people at home too and to help them build their own wood. I feel like it, just like we were so lucky to be supported at the time. I find it so strange that nations that have experienced difficulties, I experience something as if it were unique to us, that we cannot feel compassion. I think it's a little strange, and I don't get it. I don't really want to say ◯ at the cards, but I do have a policy that is not capable of creating a political vision and an act that is based on empathy and fellow feeling.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u69	Mr. President. I see why. A senator thus believes that this exact proposal is part of the political desire to reduce the emphasis on developing cooperation in general, both in terms of financial contributions and the emphasis in the politics as a whole. Wait a minute. A senator to correct me if I'm not. I'd like to ask her, then, since, once again, members of the greater part have emphasized that there will be no professional change, in what manner of riskalization is there, so to speak, by placing the Agency's activities directly under the Ministry. Then perhaps my main concern is the monitoring factor, the transparency factor, and the professional precious views there. I think it's the most important part of this discussion that we're not losing those important things. Then I want to say because I agree. In many ways, a senator's delay of the filming is very good, since it is possible to approach the matter in a way that little or nothing is changed materially in the council, i.e. that they get a course like the other part wants it to look and then get a new democratic check instead of stretching it and pulling it materially, and then agree with it with a hanging head all together, as it were. I want to ask you why. A senator would consider it any alternative to a common approach to a solution to the situation. [[The president calls.]] In fact, I miss not hearing any of the council members about this, but I think it would be fine for us in the Generals' symposium to break up more possibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u70	President. One possibility would be to allow the matter to go to a committee and fall asleep. Just let it go. There would be one possibility. I would be very happy with that, given the reasoning that came out of the question. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, I fear that something will be lost in this move, held, the transparency, because it often happens when it happens to this sort of thing that colds in a job. I know it, I've been working for companies who have joined together and there's going to be a lot of changes. No matter what the will, there will be significant changes, and there will be people who have, for example, experienced similar action in the administration. Of the will, the enterprise, and the budget, the policy is, of course, reflected in the budget. There, all political policies are crystalting. There's nothing that gives you better insight into control policy than the budget. If you look at our standards and our policies in connection with developing cooperation, you will have to look beyond the budget since the current government began.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk first asked the senator if she had any explanation that after many days of a discussion in the Senate Hall, the State Department would not want to bring the matter back to the Committee without completing 2. .., as has been done in other cases, or shoot at informal meetings to look for reconciliation or negotiations. What is behind the lack of the desire to examine timeless solutions that have often been used in such issues, both in government and in government positions? To postpone the recording, as mentioned earlier, until the next terms would be the result of which both sides should be able to settle. What does the senator consider to explain how rocky the earth will be with all efforts to make peace in this matter? Are there any interests to determine that the matter is being run over with this harshness? Any other explanations? At least it seems difficult for me to explain that humans are completely unavailable to consider some minor changes in the situation, as it seems. Is this insecurity on the part of the minister? What causes this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u72	President. I want to challenge the highest. Secretary of State to answer these questions. I'm having a bit of a hard time answering what's going on inside the highest store. Minister. I have to say, though, that this is a bit surprising, and it seems to be going through the conferences of the Progress Party. Now I have no problem working with stewards, and often meetings are fired, for example, at the highest level. Minister of state. V.E.G. For example, a minister of finance would be very diligent if you were to direct questions to him. I feel that this is marked by a similar ten - day break held at a meeting of the Board of Directors. Prime Minister wanted to meet with the directors of my section. Then there was no need to meet with him, and then ten days later, a meeting was restored to the Constitution committee, and no meeting has yet been announced. I think it's like this. Either this is a lack of experience, lack of respect, or lack of interest in working together for solutions. I'm very sorry to hear that. The minister of foreign affairs will not be more willing to negotiate with the synoptic council on this matter. I also find it very boring. The head of the State Department is being dragged into this nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u73	A respectable president. I don't lie why. A senator has trouble giving an answer on behalf of the parish minister. Of course, it is understandable, but the interesting situation is noted that it is the political party that claims to be in the center of Icelandic politics whose ministers seem to have more difficulty than the presidents of several other classes of the council by approaching other people's viewpoints or presenting matters or offering a conversation about common conclusions. [[Up front.]] Yet, there is a fine example of the opposite of a magnificent role as leader. The head of the Environment Commission took on the protection laws of nature during the days and in the highest degree. The minister of foreign affairs might set a pattern. I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether she is concerned that these organizational changes may increase the risk of corruption in the context of a developing research agency, so that we speak only Icelandic. This is, of course, a provision of significant financial resources, in which such things in other countries have sadly happened repeatedly, especially in the interaction of political and commercial life and in the way they have followed, as well as to poorly defined tasks with limited supervision in countries far away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u74	President. That's a very good question. Of course, when the tents are drawn out of government arrangement, the danger is that people will fall into temptation. There is always that possibility, and we have many examples that show that it can happen here and anywhere else. The more open the means you can have and the transparency in your administration, the better the management will be. I'm very sorry that we're going on this trip without any decent, clear evidence for the project. I don't object to the simple administration, but I don't see it that makes things more simple because the construction itself becomes more complex, simply because nobody sees it. People today call for more open and efficient administrations that can be used, both for journalists and for those who are supposed to monitor the administration and for them, such as. Senators. There must always be some way to cover the project with some kind of covering. It is not a government that pleases me or the spirit I want to operate. I think it's important that we find a way. Just like what? paritaprevir Hjövar's Hjörvar provides us with a very recent example of even a candidate for the Agency's campaign making an extraordinary deal of reconciliation over cases of sacrifice, but despite the sacrifices, we agreed on the matter in a tripolitical way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u75	A respectable president. Perhaps there is reason to begin by describing joy with what there is to be happy about being the highest. Secretary of state for the discussion. Of course, it is good that he sees fit to attend the discussion, since his absence from her in long chapters has created quite a problem with having a conversation about this subject. It is even more satisfying to see that he is next to the speaker's list and is expected to use this opportunity and explain the many things that have been cast up and really need an explanation. There is no need to hear any language before the case. As I have previously said to this discussion, it is of extraordinary interest. The minister of state seems entirely alone in this group of 38 members of the council to support the matter presented here on the meeting. True, it has been said that it is accomplished, as it were, by members of the Constitution. But the 2nd. this matter that has been held, I suppose, for a whole week of work, is still simply the fact that no senator of the Agency has spoken for the matter. If aside from the arrival of the head of the State Department, as a result of their position, I think that the Committee's opinion and discussion must be given, I believe that no member of the Independence Party has passed through any logic he would provide for this matter. It is very unusual that the conference session will be held day after day, evening after night, on which a large number of members of the council are involved, and on many serious comments without anyone other than the minister in charge of the matter in an effort to support the case. It seems to me that it exposes the ultimate amount of total isolation. A minister of foreign affairs who is understandable because this means trying to drive the case through the council is so completely incomprehensible. Not just for us at the government position, not only for Iceland, development and development teamwork but also for the interests of the board and the board of directors. There is simply no way to understand what is best for each person's interests. A minister is working here on the second council in a row unless, in case of a person's suspicion, that the minister's position is not more reliable than that he can reasonably agree that someone else may have a point in his own bill. That he is not strong enough in the field, a respectable president, so I put it in a polite way, in order to talk to others about other viewpoints and to agree that there may be another valid argument in the case that allows for some adjustment, correction, or reevaluation of factors such as binding or agreeing to some common assessment or the appearance of an independent party or something that might settle. That's totally incomprehensible. What are the benefits of making organizational adjustments in a complete conflict at the council of events, such as development cooperation, assistance to the poorest state of the world? It will not be seen that there are any interests, not for Ministers, not for the forward party, as well as for the government, not for the State Department of State, and least for the Developmental Team. Could there be some of the interests of making this organizational change, which is truly a formal change but not a change in the content of what we are doing, which is just to create a conflict of activity as good, broad, and cross - political agreements have been for so long? Why on earth is there a war between evolution and not just once, but twice? What enormous interests are involved in the organizational change that makes the minister drive the matter forward because of the one he has done so far? It is completely hidden from what it can be. While there is truly material concern that this organization is worse than the organization we live in today, there is a lower monitoring, a greater risk of corruption, and other such factors, the transfer of this aspect to the Ministry is by no means such an important change, a big step in progress, preoccupying the solidarity of the seminary. Therefore, you would have thought that it would be in our best interest and natural, based on the views of the government, the categories in which it stands first and, of course, from the work we've all made in favor of, and all the foreign ministers to this point have talked men to agree, to look for ways to accept a viewpoint, to find some compromise, to postpone an arrangement, some agreement for some sort of occurrence of others, or what it might now be like to make peace. But no. The minister is one of the 38 members of the board of directors and seems to reject all the agreements. The big question that remains remains is just this: Why on earth? What is it that the minister is applying for this organizational change that justifies it? Why is it just going on, saying, "No, no, no, I don't listen to anyone else, I don't think that other people have a valid viewpoint, I'm not prepared to take into account the views expressed by another political party, yes, even though there are two political parties, even though there are three political parties, even though there are four political parties. I don't care if all my predecessors have striven to remain at peace with this party. I'm going to destroy it. Why is this the case? It's just such a mystery. Once again, I rejoice that the minister here has a full talk period in an effort to explain to people what tremendous progress is being made in the transformation that it is just to tell peace about this important sect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u76	A respectable president. Hv. A senator went into the dispute. It made me wonder about another matter that is not satisfied, but it is Iceland's contributions to development, which is aimed at becoming 0.7% of gross domestic product, which was recently reduced to 0.21% of the highest level. Secretary of state. I wonder what's wrong. A senator would prioritize this class himself if he had the full opportunity of making this proposal, which, according to one authority, is to make the work more efficient than it is to an institution of which, in itself, there is no disagreement on the obligation to finance and no one seems to have anything but a good thing to say. At the same time, it is critical that we do not live up to what the council decided some time ago on our donations. So I pondered my priorities. Is this really the time at which we have blurred work to improve efficiency in an undisputed institution when the case is that we are not committed to a commitment decided by the Generals? Even if this idea had failed to improve efficiency considerably, should we not begin with what we say we intend to do? I wondered how it would be best to set priorities. Is it perhaps best to engage in efficiency first before meeting decisions that we have already made?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u77	A respectable president. Even if this change would be to increase efficiency, which we should not doubt to the minister, there is no reason for them not to delay its implementation by one year or two, in the other large context of the section, if it was to form steps that would ensure continued good solidarity in the seminary. In terms of the contributions, those who are impressed with conspirators might wonder whether this small issue, which is, in fact, just the group's organization and not its content, is being so overwhelmed and created so much debate to cover that, in reality, the content of the project is not sufficiently working. Donations. I want to believe that it's where we're going to make a contribution to the Icelanders. The Senator asks me how I feel about it. I participated in this cross - political solidarity here before a collapse, and I concluded that they will gradually increase their donations until they reach what the United Nations has in mind. Sadly, after the collapse, we were unable to follow that schedule. I hope there could be a parapolitic convergence to complete the expeditions men tried to go together before 2008. I don't think it's a good idea to be breaking up with the insistence on the orderliness of the matter when it is important that we increase our donations and contributions to help countries that are in the position that we ourselves were in not too long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u78	A respectable president. It's no wonder, then, that there is a measure of suspicion about such action in the case of which we cannot measure what the General has already decided regarding contributions to development cooperation. It doesn't mean anything for the Icelanders anymore to say that we're so poor and poor at the time of collapse. We have simply come out of that position, blessedly. Although there are many problems here, there is no longer any excuse to compromise on the way of reaching these 0.7%. For priorities. The aim of improving efficiency is in itself good and blessed. Is that not possible? One idea has been proposed, to bring the Agency, the Development Agency, to the State Department, without putting it down, something that seems to be possible from what you've heard so far in government speeches. And then, of course, you haven't heard of it from the government section, unfortunately. I suppose the highest. The minister of foreign affairs will consider this in his coming speech. I guess there'll be some kind of reply and something to discuss, and I'm actually glad he put himself on the rosary, if that's gone. Figures that's what it's like. A senator's opinion that we can't stick to our original plan on how we're going to reach this 0.7%? It's been quite a while since the collapse. The wealth is better, the Icelandic economy is better. Is there any good reason to miss that goal at the time that the Council decided?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u79	A respectable president. I just want to say that I am prepared to look into all the suggestions involved in trying to break the gap between people in the current case, sitting for all the meetings that are being made to see if there are any conflicting views on this or looking for some sort of compromise. I believe it's our duty. They may feel inferior if they make some of the cases they bring into the council after they become ministers, but that is a complete misunderstanding. This is not just the case with the problem. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, who brought natural protection laws to the ends, both he and the highest. The minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir to consider and gourd, but we also have an example of urgency. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who certainly does not believe in various subjects, is not afraid to deal with humans on issues but took a system plan in the middle of the 2nd. Impressed by committees, she found a successful solution, as well as the minister who initially considered the matter as well. They did not become inferior for taking into consideration other viewpoints. They grew from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u80	Mr. President. The government has been trying to make peace and to build bridges in these chemicals in order to reach the highest levels of ears. Secretary of state and others in the greater part of these matters. Opinions such as postponing the film for a year or even two have been developed. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator how that time would be used. Other subjects have been pondered. I am here with a review that the head of the European Development Agency has recently published on the report of Þórir Guðmundsson on development cooperation. This bill is based on a report by Þórir. The Commissioner has some ideas, such as a search for the opinion of the State's Accounting on organizational proposals and the like. What does it look like? A senator saw fit to be done at that time on the part of the council? Is it possible to justify the change to the highest degree? Minister to proceed? Can we find any compromise in these issues that political reconciliation can produce?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u81	A respectable president. We have often used postponement to resolve difficult differences in this hall. When we were in a position of government, thinking that the forwarding party and the Independence Party were that the water became much softer, normal. Of course, they did not think so, but that was our conviction. The conclusion was to postpone the execution of the case beyond the General election, which resulted in the switch to more parts and the opportunity to make changes in the legislation that we considered important. Similarly, during the last term, there was an forwarding group and an independent group in a position of government opposition. At that time, nature protection laws were presented. That was the conviction of Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, then why. A senator, that they were very ostentatious and important that they not come into effect. This was removed, and their entry was delayed until this elected period. And if there were any men, there was again a change in democratic authority, and those who had been in positions of government became in charge. Now, a minister and a member of the Committee of this series have reviewed the nature protection laws and have made the changes that are considered important to the current administration groups. A similar opportunity would open by postponing this point. If nothing changes in the democratic environment of the government in the country and this is as good a decision as the minister thinks, this change will be achieved after two years. The seminar class enjoys the long future that the minister has considered to be good in the case, and a full victory is won on his part. But if, for example, the DEC report calls it a year or a year's elections, that there is reason to change the legislation and bring a bill to disappear from this decision, and it can be approved in the council, there will be an opportunity to do so. [[The president calls.]] It would meet both views.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u82	Mr. President. Deceased at a time. The members of the Board of Directors, Jón Gunnarsson and Höskuldur Þórhallsson, are, in effect, in our high priestship for being peacemen and for getting out of trouble and negotiating difficult matters, strategy and nature protection laws, such as that. A senator and others have entered. I'd go to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs would like to get into the company and be the man who has the maturity to see that it does not honor the council to settle this issue in a large way. Of course, we haven't been discussing this matter for so long, because it's just, that's because we're very low. We are concerned about how this will develop and how it can be done better, requiring more preparation for this great decision. I'd like to hear from what. A member of the body of responsible personnel of the Agency who should have the most professional knowledge. They are familiar with and familiar with the operation. I know what you're doing. A senator how their visit was to that decision? As I understand it, she hasn't been much. They have objected to this decision in their comments. Is it not true that employees, directors, and executive directors have much more to say if a change of arrangement is made? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u83	A respectable president. Hv. A senator brings up yet another reason why it may, in fact, be in a light bed at the highest level. Secretary of State, although this bill will be suspended. Everyone knows this organizational change is not the ultimate idea. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson. I believe that he himself has repeatedly confirmed. This is an old idea that officials in the State Department have had over the years, if not for decades. There is nothing bound to the council opposition to doubt about her. It has long been mistrusted by employees and executives in the Developmental Cooperation Organization, but not only with them, ministers from both the independent and the forward groups have also had valid doubts about it, which is normal. Projections are always critical. They in themselves are not a class of predominantly catechism. Perhaps that's why I find it unconcerned that a minister should not have brought up some sort of compromise on the case, since, in fact, the matter is the idea of a government officer in the Ministry. Let it be that the minister thought that this was a good enough idea to go to the church treatment. But then I would have thought it only natural that the minister also brought up the matter of conquistador to consider whether they could delay a state-of-the-art by two years, since the idea has not occurred in the last 20 years of her being on the table in the State Department. It's a bit different, but it's not money on when it comes to value.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u84	A respectable president. I'd like to start by correcting some things. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, who spoke earlier. It's not right. A senator I've confirmed here that it was the ideas of government officials in the Ministry to go this way. The Senator's not right. It is very difficult always to correct a problem. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, when a number of statements are presented that are unconvinced. Last night, this discussion was just like it's been for days and a long time. In fact, most of them were answered in a report delivered last spring as well as in my speech, but a few of these may be considered again. Among other things, the proposals of a so-called DAC committee were asked. I think I've answered it quite well and often. I'd like to correct, though, that this report contains some misunderstandings about FAC's tips. It's true that DAC didn't put directly into the Ministry or Ministry into the TSSI or what it would be like they would never do that. It's not their job. DAC, however, said that the arrangement would be reviewed. It is true that this indication was before a change in the growth of our proposal, but it was not the reason for the indication. However, the DAC report shows that it is time for Iceland to look at the arrangement, especially because of the fact that the situation in Iceland differs from what happens in most other DAC countries. At least half of the DMA countries have a special agency that does two-sided jobs, that's right, but there are also other institutions that are much bigger than the SISSI and have larger parts of development cooperation. I move to the next point. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was wondering that in the analysis of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, there are different possibilities. One of them is to strengthen TSSI and bring in other development partners, at least to increase all two-sided cooperation. Men have given this option, but I would like to reiterate that there is no room for controversy in the primary outcome of the analysis of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, who, by permission of the president, is expected to be in a position by all government agencies. Only in this way can the best results be optimised by the most efficient of them. We also have a very small administrative facility, absolutely arbitrarily small administration to do most of the work we have to do. The fact is, though, that if we were to support the YSSI, the jury would be under the State Department, and the minister of foreign affairs, of course. One misunderstanding is that Danida was not put down. The Danida Institute was laid down in the 1980s, however the name was held. Danir uses the name. One of our intentions is to use the ICEIDA name. It is known abroad, and it contains something of great value. It is also important to mention something else about the test that all projects would be assigned to the Agency. In the Agency's comments on Þórir Guðmundsson's phase report, this does not seem reasonable, it includes too much intervention for political control, monitoring, etc. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon specifically used professional arguments and felt they were lacking. I've told you before, there's not one point that's going on with the YES. We'd like to add, we want a stronger team that's working on developing issues. That's what's on our mind. So I repeat what I've said before, it says in the report, and we all know that the Icelandic management department is very small and very small, and each employee has a range of roles. We're talking about two very small units, one on the TSSI and one on the other, the Office of the Ministry, who performs evolutionary cooperation. Enrolling the TSSI into the Ministry is simplifying the organization. We are going to make better use of each employee, thereby providing the funds we give to the seminary. Sadly, when you have two small institutions on similar issues, you may be able to improve the size of tasks. Money is being cared for in both places, introductory and inexorably. There's two databases for a project. For example, the Ministry of State is the head of information for FAC, and the DSSI needs to submit information or information to the Ministry. The association between several international institutions is going through both TheSSI and the Ministry. You wonder, " Is there really any sense in having the same language or the same thing in many places? ' I think it was a why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who also asked for management and saving. I don't think I ever claimed it would be, at least not in the beginning, in any direct movement, or in the number of these things. Nor is it a matter of detracting donations to the seminary, not at all. We are talking about making better use of the workers, giving better service, and, so to speak, as humans have mentioned here, trying to be more concerned with the poorest people we want to do, and trying to make them more for the same money. In fact, long term housing costs may be saved if the work is in one place and services. Then they asked for integration. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon got in on it, and I think he was too. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. I mentioned in my case yesterday that development teamwork is already employed at the State Department. In this way, about 60% of all the funds go into development cooperation today. This work is not based on my interest, nor is it based on my predecessors in the Ministry, which is the result of this switch, and it is based on a developing teamwork program going through the General Assembly. That's where Iceland's plan is set on these matters. It is also safe to say that in half of the so - called DiaCs, evolutionary cooperation is a matter of concern. None of the organization we're talking about here is above criticism, we know absolutely, no more than anything we're working on. Most important, the group of paintings has a heavy weight and a good procedure. That's what we've been doing at the Ministry, inside the DNS, and we're going to do it. I think that by keeping it all together in the Ministry, we're strengthening the importance of the seminary because then we're making this a central nuclear project in the Ministry. We also discussed the disappearance of surveillance. Of course, good monitoring of projects will continue to be maintained, monitored for the financial support we provide for developing cooperation where there is the greatest need for it to end. The Ministry is currently monitoring the SISSI and the SISSI is monitoring implementation in cooperation countries. The local people themselves are responsible for their projects and are responsible for their actions. The district offices, however, monitor the implementation according to the agreed regulations and that this will bring everything to the right place. There is a Ministry of nature in the case of monitoring projects in the domestic cooperation countries, i.e. The existing offices are and will be, such as those in Malawi, where people will continue to carry out these assignments. Regular assessments of evolution will continue to be carried out in the same way that is being done today, and this certainly applies to projects in cooperation countries as well as to international cooperation and international organisations. There will be no lack of surveillance. This is a tone that should be swallowed up an entire institution and then spend it on something else. Such a statement is preposterous. It doesn't exist, and I don't know where it came from. Nothing in this bill gives us reason for such speculation. It has also been noted that the budget will be spent on other foreign affairs. Developmental contributions are separated from other operations of the State Department, and this is how it will be. If we look at the budget for the year in which it's passing and suggestions in the budget for 2016, we're putting money in UNICEF or something else. Of course, it's bound to them. Of course, all DAC procedures are followed, etc. This too has been the subject of personnel matters. Of course, all laws on the rights and responsibilities of the Kingdom must be followed. The requirements for waiting are general and applicable to these requirements. I hope, however, that all personnel of the Development Agency will accept jobs in the Ministry for continued development. Their knowledge is important and precious, and we want it to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u85	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. This is the first time I think it's the most. A minister has given specific suggestions to enter into this discussion materially and to reason on some aspect of the question asked to him. Then I'll have to agree with what. paritaprevir Proppér, who said under midnight that the discussion was getting better. That's an improvement in the subject. About the professional logic, of course. A minister says, and to a degree, I understand that he does not want to go into pointing out something that is wrong, but he still wants to improve. Still, he wants to make up for something he doesn't want to point out where the offense is. I'm asking back. Don't we have a team in the big leagues? Wait, don't we have the team in the league, and why change the plays if that's the case? Is that not a fact? This institution has been well - fired, well - graded in both the country and the foreign countries, exemplary in its appointment, and has been very effective in these areas in recent years. If there is one of the factors mentioned, such as some additive influence, in uniting databases, uniting participation in international institutions, and other such factors, it would be good to get a chart over it, get a scheme over it, and wonder whether there were no other ways of achieving a better outcome than that of killing the Agency. I would have started off with a slightly lighter fellow if there's something like this that people are talking about. V.E.G. A minister admits that his aim is not practical, and that is good. Then you can push it out of the table. With regard to integration, and the argument that 60% of expenses is set aside by the Ministry. Yeah. It has just been pointed out that perhaps there is one error in today's project that the Ministry has too much room for what should really be, according to the general structure, as it is thought, in the development community. Half of the DAC countries are on the basis of the Minister's information with this in an independent agency, half of the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] How many of the latter half, countries, would have an independent minister or sub secretary of evolution, which, of course, makes much larger problems possible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u86	A respectable president. About the last thing that happened to you. A senator on how many countries have an independent minister of evolution, as I understood why. Senator, I have to admit that I don't know that information exactly, but what I'm going to say right now is based solely on memory that can be dim. I only remember one European country that has a special development minister, and that's the British. I can't tell if he has any other job, but at least they're doing it in this way. Hv. A senator named an elite member of the elite department. Yeah. We can be sure that after changing our approach to two - side development teamwork by moving the projects to the present form, to focus on, for example, local approach, and to let the local people really do the construction and monitoring, we have a methodology that can be said to be in the department, monitoring, and other factors have been very successful. We are getting more out of this way than simply to ensure, for example, that water is very important, or that it is building a hospital or a school. We are also creating knowledge in the administrative structure of the region, which is very important. But that's how all the teams, whether they're in the second division, top department, or anywhere else, all endeavor to do even better. We feel that more can be accomplished by having more people meet together. A bigger mass to work together than two small organizations, both important and good. I have to say, there is no worse procedure or worse staff handling these matters at the State Department than there is in the United States. Our goal is to make this team invincible if we are to continue to compete. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u87	Mr. President. As for the organization of these cases in larger countries, I pretend to remember that in some other countries, if I recall correctly, for example, in Denmark, at least if you had a subsidiary, or a minister of this sort who had particular evolutionary issues, and even in some countries, there are ministers more than one. Granted, a minister may hear a word under the minister who gives the chief answer to the Ministry but who is in many ways independent of the work. In fact, such an idea has been discussed here in our small board of directors to be added additional legislators to some Ministry, as is a legal authority, and would be the State Department of State perhaps the closest thing to travel and the absence of the individual involved. There's one left as the highest. Ministers said, and there's a work assignment, that the Agency is very small. Yeah. It is, of course, international standards, but Iceland is very small, and this is not a dwarf institution, whether in the company or in the number of employees on the Icelandic scale. We have learned to tailor ourselves for growth in our public service and administration, and we must. [[The president calls.]] This has been successful in this case. So I don't think this is a reason for any political organization in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u88	A respectable president. Of course, when you put your finger on what is a small or big institution, you can probably reason on it. I suppose, though, that even on the Icelandic scale there is a ten - man institution at home, eight to ten people, relatively small. But it can be reasoned, of course. We get out of this group of over 20 people who are working on a multinational and dual development team that I think will bring us better results. You're right next door. A member of the United States who is a member of the body is serving as a member of the body of elders in some lands in which development is concerned. Danir had it, but Dana's new government decided to get away from it. I don't know why. I had a good relationship with the sub secretary who once had this group of litigation. It's true that there are ways of doing this. The idea of another minister at the Ministry of State is very, very exciting, I must say it and I would even celebrate it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u89	A respectable president. What a joy it is to have the highest power! The minister of foreign affairs was here for a discussion, and he gave this fine talk with a question, and God knows what. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State details in Danida and Norad, i.e. Danish and Norwegian Institutes of Development. Now it's called the highest. Secretary of State in his speech that Danida had gone under the State Department and only kept his name. As told by Iceland's Social Science Center from last year on, the TSSI has developed a reputation and is a brand of development in Iceland's development. It was one of the worries that was put in motion against putting the Agency down and moving it to the State Ministry of State to deliver it to the Ministry of State without putting the Agency down. What I'm wondering is whether it's the highest. A minister of state might consider moving the agency to the State Department, although its name continues to be TheSSI and is still that brand, as it were, which has been a good word for word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u90	A respectable president. By the way we're putting up, we're mixing the TSSI with the department at the Ministry and keeping the ICEIDA name, as I said to the 1st. of this matter, of course, we are holding onto the flag of high value. It is particularly precious, the ICEIDA name. I reiterate what I've previously said that our goal is to have a larger team, a better team that performs all types of development aid we have on our mind today, whether it's a multisided or two-sided. Organization, i.e. how the funding goes and the rest, it's decided through Congress resolution at the Council. I can only see that all of this is well prepared in the suggestions presented here. It is quite true regarding this discussion with Danida that it is, of course, only a different approach to Dana when it comes to developing cooperation than with us. They have a very different approach, since there's more work in there, etc. Nevertheless, this name, their name, is still used, and is quite precious, just as ICEIDA will be with us, because it is a well - known name in the developing world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u91	Thank you very much. Minister of state is eager to give the answer and to participate in the discussion this time, since that is sometimes very helpful. Then I'd like to know whether and how much of the other concept was considered in the case of Þórir the son of Guðmundsson as well. It was to strengthen the TSSI and deliver a project from the Ministry to the European Development Agency and keep the Ministry of State in a more controlled position. According to the data I've been looking at, it has been found to be the best way to keep surveillance at the Ministry than the implementation of an independent agency. Now I know the highest. The minister of foreign affairs does not agree that this is a good way, but I would like to hear why, especially whether and how well this method was taken. Or whether it was only in the way that had eventually gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u92	A respectable president. Of course, it was well considered all the suggestions that Þórir Guðmundsson suggests, both in the final report and in the final report. I'd also like to remind you that this report suggests a minimum of 40 to 750 suggestions. However, it was my decision, it was my responsibility, not to go into the smallest suggestions, indeed not the smallest, they are many very important, how to perform evolutionary cooperation and other activities. I didn't think it was right to do it. I thought it should be left to employees, really in a united institution, to organise some or all of the suggestions on how the employees or experts appreciate the best way to do it. It was our conclusion, and in accordance with what is stated in the final report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, that unity in the Ministry was the most successful means of achieving better results, creating more teams, better development cooperation, better handling funds and such. [[The president calls.]] When I say do better with money, I mean, better with the limited money and get more out of it. It's not to say that money is being badly treated in any place. Not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u93	A respectable president. I took notice of witnessing in the highest part of my life. Minister of State on where the idea had come from, for example, would not intend to put anything wrong in his mouth. I'd heard what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Tasphéðinsson described these ideas for him at his time, and he knew they had been placed before more ministers, so I understood that this was the old idea of government officials in the Ministry rather than the new idea of Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson. But is it correct to understand that this is some special concept of the Minister who is now being discussed? It would be nice to decide. I'm glad the minister comes to a material discussion, and I think we're talking. The minister says that this is a small organization, that organization can always be divided, that it is not being used for this economy, or that it is essentially a better use for the people in these activities. Clearly, this has a different view of how its active force will be used best. Since we agree that the situation is growing, is it not without reservation to the minister and would it not be evidence that we were developing something in our democratic work in the country if he agreed on the point of postponing this project until after the end of the election, as the minister says, a small organization, and is not about saving money or managing it, but primarily for the future, to make better use of human life?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u94	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You're right about what you're doing. A senator sees that these ideas of uniting the development issues into the Ministry are nothing new. It's not like that. I'm sure I didn't argue that one morning I thought about it when I woke up that it was probably a good idea. What I am to do, however, is to do as I am responsible for the problems, all the fields and everything that we hear and wonder and whether we are doing well or whether we can do better, etc. Of course, I studied the reports that had been written earlier on the possibility of uniting them in one place, the speculations. This was really the motivation for my decision, and now members of Congress must accept that it was not the Ministry's employees who resorted to deception or pressure, to reassign this journey, to see if it would come out of it even more convincing than previously shown. I believe the conclusion revealed that it did. For postponing a validation, I have to admit it, sir. Senator, that I haven't seen one single reason to do it. The point is, the Agency is being united into the Ministry to gain a stronger support and a better perspective on projects and such. There is no basic change in the approach of developing cohesion or such. True, the report by the son of Þórir Guðmundsson offers suggestions on whether it should be, and so many countries at once, whether to do things this way or to others. But there's something I don't have a secretary's intention of getting involved. That's what employees will have to deal with, experts in this field, when the union is over. When this has become one team, further suggestions will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u95	A respectable president. Þórir Guðmundsson said to the Foreign Affairs Committee that the possibility of supporting the YESI could be fully possible. But delaying the recording involves only the fact that a work with international recognition is allowed to continue for two years. Work where workers disagree with these organizational adjustments and then have some adjustment period. What could the minister possibly sacrifice by responding to his viewpoint? Is the minister saying that there is no evidence in the matter that it is important to have a parapolitic team for development? Does that not seem to the minister to be an independent argument in the case? Does not the minister feel that he should do anything to address other viewpoints? Is it some kind of personal ambition for the Minister to complete this matter on a small institution that has no economy or savings and is in good shape the way it is? [[The president calls.]] Is it quite impossible to postpone the execution of this brief period of time in order to resolve the matter? Is it not worth it in itself to unite in the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u96	A respectable president. We may be able to discern whether such evidence has been made here in the Hall that there is a basis for delaying the execution. I appreciate it, so I don't. But I'm going to step out of my memory for a second. A senator spoke directly to Þórir Guðmundsson at a meeting of the State Department. I didn't think it was gonna show up. I didn't think it was done, quoting men with words. But there may be something new and possible in the Assembly Hall. I would like to recall that some member of the council was quite wide enough for such a thing. There may be a change of approach, Mr. President, to what might the word at the Hall or not? But as far as I know, it's a violation of the council to testify to men of the council meetings. I'll ask a respectable president if he is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u97	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity to discuss this for a minute or so. 9th. s.. Such as quoted at a hearing at a committee meeting. Away from the rules, and in itself, I do not criticize at all. Secretary of State, I don't think so, but it must be clear that it is valuable for the discussion to know what was going on in the meeting and what was shown in the case of the writer of the report. In this regard, we must need some way in which the council can become clear. Therefore, I would like to suggest that the meetings of the World Council Committee usually open.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u98	Mr. President. Then it is good to review what you feel or stay behind to discuss in these areas. However, there are still some factors. Now I've weighed and measured answers to the highest. Ministers to the five detailed questions I asked and that in itself we have settled one of them, we can say, with a question facing business management. It is clear, and there is no debate about the conclusion, in fact, in the publication of the official financial office, that there may be some future economic situation. But this is not what is being considered for the change, and it is a good thing. Regarding the professional argument, I'm not very convinced yet. It appeared, and I'm not going to question that it could be, that this change could be made to some convenience which I prefer to call so on, for example, data structure or databases in the Ministry and the Agency. All right. It may well be that the change may be of some comfort in attending meetings and conferences and interacting with foreign parties. That's not an important argument. It would likely be possible to use a less modest means of dealing with people. The excellent logic is one of the major issues associated with the integration process, i.e. how they see it strengthened and improved professional, independent, careful development and its structure so that it transcends suspicion and criticism that some other interests become involved. I think it's one of the big things about this, that we don't suspect, as the experience of others has shown that it has. In this regard, the Netherlands has been quoted, which again led to the decision that Italians made to do just the opposite. Humans want to be exposed to mere suspicions as to whether they are going anywhere but one of the sincere interests of the people involved. That there is in no way the business interests, diplomatic interests, or foreign political interests of the country are stirred up. I feel that after a minister gives a better answer to what had just been entered, i.e. Such conflict: The peace that can be created. He cannot be overlooked. This is in opposition to the employees who have taken care of these jobs, I think I'm in a position to lay low. It was stated at the edge of the matter and is still a fact that those who care for this day - to - day work and are involved in these works, thus having experience in the Developmental Institute, are not up - to - date with the change. They feel that the present arrangement is better. This is not to say that there are no modifications and communications of the Ministry, and there could, of course, be other means in which money may be made. Probably it is true that the error of the basic thinking proposed in 2008 - the arrangement is not older - is that the Ministry has been too eager to hold on to a special provision of funds that would probably have been better in the development community. This is therefore done in opposition to employees and professionals, at least to a large degree, but perhaps not to the fine people who work at the Ministry of Ministers. I suppose you do, but I don't know. There is no political solidarity. It's all breaking in pieces. Yet, people have worked hard over the years to maintain it. There are differing opinions on this subject. In contrast, there has been fine peace over the past few years with regard to the present arrangement. I don't know that there was a debate over this, as has been the continuing success of a solid solidarity behind the work of the Development Agency of the past few years. There are a number of ways in which you might want to examine some of the landings in this case. It's a set of values, that in itself the highest. Ministers of the law, but they will not go into effect until things have improved and it is possible to determine whether or not there is a political wish to proceed at the beginning of the next terms. It would be to turn it into some kind of conditional law. In itself, a minister would be authorized to meet certain conditions and perhaps at the hearing of a discussion with the Council to make this possible, and this would be fulfilled. This has been referred to as an idea that may not be the case; to bring it under the Ministry, but that the Agency is allowed to maintain whole, and to continue as an independent unit under the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] You can point to 17. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, as they were changed last spring, which allows just for setting up a work unit or a government agency. [[The president calls.]] I didn't particularly like that thing, but now it's legal. Therefore, a minister might ask for permission to enable them in accordance with national legislation on Iceland's Management Board without completing the Agency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u99	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. He squeamished all the things you've wondered about, why you want to go on running a case like that in war. Thus, it has been claimed by those who have spoken in advance that this is a smottary change, a gnat, and earlier today, the head of a body of candidates said that we were making gnats of gnats. The minister himself has said that this is a facsimile change, etc. As you look at the history of the case, it was clear at the last council that this was a very controversial issue, and it was divided by a smaller section of the council. Then the case comes back here the same in the fall. It is unusual for the company to pass, and the next day a visitor is announced to be able to receive visitors, but it will not change anything, since it will still be torn out of the committee on the day the visitors arrive, two days later, which was done in spite of the very strong protests of those sitting in the lesser part of the committee. My question to why. So the senator is: considering the way man is driving this case, and now we are also in the evening meeting, doesn't he think he's a little good on the part of the minister and the administrative part for little bogs and something that's a change that shouldn't matter, no physical change, but a smoker change? If it's such a small change, why does it hold a sledgehammer? A senator telling you that men are driving this thing with as much fragility as they are going through the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u100	Mr. President. It is natural that when these few spokesmen other than the Ministers who have come up largely in opposition to the discussion on this matter -- it is primarily a two - party minister, or mostly one, of the forward strategists - have tried to take on some kind of defense and in this way that it is a mere minor matter, that is making a camel out of mire, that is some minor organization change, that it is a matter of hearts to continue driving the case in this way, if it is not bigger than this. The problem is, as far as the person here is concerned, I disagree completely. I think it's a very big deal. I'm afraid it's my heart's problem what's going on in this group, and that's been a long time, for over 30 years. I think I'm right to remember that one of my first members, when a man was trembling and vibrating at his bones, a nervous young senator - I'm not so much anymore - there was a pact proposal to increase the amount of donations made for development. [[Up front.]] I've been watching it very carefully ever since, and of course, most of all, unfortunately, of the time, it's been sad how sad it has been to get us out of our bicycles in that regard. I think we've been in 0.19, or 0.20%, and since then we've cut down 1, 2, 3, 0.0 percentages, and it's certainly sad. So I disagree with this approach for that reason, because it is my heart that our work is being done well. That is why I would so much wish that we were discussing how to unite our powers and give them the highest power. Secretary of state, in particular, is fighting for more money during economic growth and improvement in national interests into this suit. It would be worth a few nights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u101	A respectable president. I'm gonna say what. I wholeheartedly agree with him in what he said in the preceding article. I wish we were discussing how we could improve our contribution to development rather than that. I also wish that we had a government that was just as intense and that would be out of love with such a thing as they do in this case, a case that I think is very bad for the party. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. In our discussion, some of us have compared this with taking other government agencies into the Ministry, which are based on vast expertise, such as the U.S. The road. Then those who speak up in this matter, the few, have outspokenly said that it is inconspicuous. So I don't agree completely with myself. I think it's a lot like that. The only difference is that it is possible that there is too much distribution of projects related to development cooperation, as shown in the best analysis. However, it would be a normal step to move the projects into a developing research agency. The comparison with the roadmaking process makes me feel very appropriate because it has a very specific design for projects, just as development teamwork is carried out. She's sensitive, and she's specialized, extremely specialized. I'd like to hear what it's like. From that point of view, a senator looks at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u102	Mr. President. I would go further than say that this is a special subject in engineering projects, such as the Road Building. This is even more specialized, since it is much more difficult. And that's what the story tells us. Those of us who have observed and participated in these discussions for a long time know a story that is a tragic accident in which a big mistake was made. I remember that 20 years ago, there was a very popular phrase in discussions about these matters at a international dairy station built in Africa by our non - Witness cousins, hugely cool. However, there never came a drop of milk into it, for they forgot that there were no cows in the country, but they were going to help the country with the milk and milk industry, of course with the Alpha Laval machines. Then people were still in the area clearing the way for goods and goods to sell. History of the development of evolutionary cohesion, a field filled with such accidents and mistakes. That's why we should be careful. This too is extremely sensitive because of the personal relationship with the mismanagement of human government. That is why I think, for example, that the way our development organization has increased and perhaps largely internally, to work with the community and the government at a level of government, is much happier in many ways than what men often did in the past, perhaps forced to do, to be trying to assist horrible, miserable people in lands where the government was terrifying, corrupt, and man's feet had to be very careful through that jungle. Of course, when public funds are being made up in development, do they not want to pay bribes, do they? Or that some of that money's gonna get in the hands of the most corrupt government generals? No. In that way, though, it has become very selective and careful. We've been lucky. We've been lucky compared, I'd like to say most of the other countries I know. [[The president calls.]] We have not generally experienced a controversial incident or such a catastrophe. Isn't that good? Why, then, should we change? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u103	A respectable president. To begin with, thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for a very interesting and good speech. This is the case with the United States' two - sided development team, and it seems to be rather speculative of what agreements it is. There are contracts with some countries and they seem to be in some process. I don't quite understand why the State Department wants them on their own. As I get the best after looking for information on this matter, there are about 70% of the world's global development contracts. Would it not be natural for what is so highly defined - and the development of a teamwork agency - to have this dual, multi-national, multi-national development contract, such as the UN Development Development Program (DPP), to be in the hands of the State Ministry of State, where it really is a multinational, diplomatic work in a multinational field, while the two-sided contracts were in a specific setting? Would that not be normal? A senator? It seems to me that after trying to study good administrative practices, it is a good approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I think that when we discuss two-sided development partnerships, which include cooperation with countries and regions we have chosen and then going to deal with, and then we are bound to meet up with certain contracts and agreements with these countries, that are what we are generally talking about, that it actually renders a whole different law, rather than our voluntary or treaty into the big institutions or international projects. It is much less important in my mind and really just a matter of arrangement how it goes from government funds to those institutions and is no big problem or trouble with it. It's normal to go through the State Department. But there's no evidence that developing cooperation on our terms should be included in the Ministry. I see no reason to change the arrangement that we've built up and have given very well. I believe that the focus was good, shaped in the right direction over the past few years, that it has been appropriate, for example, to reduce the number of cooperation countries, but to do better and more specific tasks in fewer countries, including the number of countries. Because we don't have much land and we don't have much money. All of this has happened in the development community. Of course, they do have the greatest part in molding Iceland's priorities in working with the community, focusing on women and children's issues, basic business services, and so forth. Everything's fine. I don't mean to say that the State Department wasn't involved, but it's been working out for the Development Organization. That's when I have no reason to change the arrangement. If this were now some terrible writing that would derail the scene. [[The president calls.]] But, in effect, it's about the question of whether this is supposed to be an independent agency with an independent manager or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u105	President. Thanks for the answer. The Agency will no doubt lose independence if it is accepted into the Ministry. Could this not contribute to the more economic efforts of Iceland in relation to a particular state? I've seen in this deal. I've been in a multinational development team myself, i.e. I've been to the tonkel of this kind of work. It's a very high political scene. When this kind of business is put into the department that controls Iceland's foreign business, don't you think we're going to start mixing developing cooperation with commercial interests? Do we decide not to do certain things? While we have an independent organisation with an independent manager, we are trying to distinguish it, and making sure that professional arguments will always be put ahead of commercial interests. Hv. A candidate mentioned earlier in his talk an example of how this was done in the Netherlands, but it seems that such activity is in most North countries. So I wondered, " Is it just a matter of doing this? Or will this contribute to more business interests than my own development team? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u106	Mr. President. What I've come to know about this, regardless of whether it's still in an entirely independent institution outside recruitment or in a very independent unit within recruitment or associated consulting, the policy and approach are everywhere now being the same, that men refuse to be prostitutes of some kind of country's business in developing cooperation projects. That's about the last thing people want to get accused of, but they're in this on independent professional grounds and they don't go anywhere else, there's no other interests, there's no smuggling on a trip that has to do with business interests, political interests, or anything like that. The problem with the integration argument is that it is not always possible to escape and hold, and it is usually never possible. I'm afraid that the idea that they can achieve some more destructive integration by poring it together into the Ministry, which has a completely different project for their living, will be at the expense of this one. It may make it harder to prevent suspicion from occurring in such a subject. Of course, the foundation of this is so that these projects must be carried out in such a way that, of course, we do not get involved in the internal and political affairs of the countries we work on. Although we may want to, we do not have a developing teamwork program to change government in the lands, but we do not allow ourselves to do so. We are going to help the people no matter how fortunate they are by means of government in their territories. But the same goes at home, when mixing the politics from here, don't go into the projects there. It's very important. It must be on both sides and have suspicion. I think that's kind of the professional law today that's been undisputed. [[The president calls.]] I find it hard to accept that this case is an improvement or a progressive step if you put it in this light. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u107	A respectable president. Today, at the beginning of a meeting, the highest attendance took place. President's warrant for an evening meeting with a vote in the Senate Hall. It was not an evening meeting. It was allowed to hold him in such circumstances. Now I understand that we're about to take a break for dinner, and that's when we're served with food that the President is going to continue the conference after dinner break. I'm asking about the plans here tonight. During this fine day, the government has produced certain ideas for landing in this case, and there have been no response. It is now a whole day without any respect for the government's situation in their efforts. I'm asking a president what are the plans here on this Lord's day?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u108	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the president if and when he's going to adopt for us members of the smaller section and become aware that we are discussed with him the offer we have sent to the government on some form of reconciliation proposals. We haven't even been respected. Men have not wanted to talk about it. I think we've come up with one of three, four ideas to figure out how to solve this case but not get any answers. After that, too, it is very unusual in what way this case was run through a committee. If you just look at how the Senate works, it's newer how it was run through here. We have requested that the president adopt our report and help us to see that this case will have at least some kind of normal procedure by reimburseing it to the committee. But we can't hear anything. So, President, do I ask, is there any way we're going to get some answers to these ideas and wait as well as to whether the President is going to start taking up his name for us here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u109	Mr. President. I'm in a similar area. This was an evening meeting against the counsel and the will of many of us, for we thought that there was nothing particularly reasonable, especially from the view that men were trying to compare themselves and discuss the matter, discussing whether there were some surfaces that would be worth a consideration of something to consider in connection with the payment of this important issue. Governments. You might think that this is what would be most urgent in Iceland today, the putting down of a developing research agency. That's not the problem in that country, I say, if it's the main project to put down such a wonderful organization that it's proved to be. We have mentioned both during the discussion and, as it turns out, something is felt by the fact that there is a will on our part to really examine the ways in these topics. V.E.G. Minister has not been able to agree much with that, at least Not yet. That may change. So I find myself in a similar direction, depending on what is involved in these matters. [[The president calls.]] Is it not wise to go to dinner at least now and perhaps spend some time together so that you might be able to stick your noses together? I don't see that we're making much money until we've tried this to be a problem. We'll know where we stand then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u110	V.E.G. President. Before I bring up the matter of Congress here, I want to believe in the highest. The fact that I opened up to the General Web this morning and saw a meeting meeting this morning was a small thing. Not that it made me particularly happy at its own time, it was rather in the crying business, but rarely has one government opened up as clearly in its emotional life as in this program, which actually has only two cases, the two horse purchases, on the other hand, the ideal child. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, and the child of the Ministry of finance, Barry the Bjarni of Benediktsson, for public financial matters. It was known and long ago it is the case that the government is stressing to complete before Christmas. Then, of course, the financial bill. Everything else has been pushed aside. Here at one time were the affairs of disabled international agreements on the rights of disabled people. All of this was swept off the board, and then the development of a research organization and then public funds were allowed to penetrate the AWA board. I wanted to say the highest. A president from this, share this celebration with me from this morning. Then I'd like to say that I think it would have been good if it had been the best. The minister of state, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, would have been more early in this discussion. We spent a lot of time giving a speech at the conclusion of the President's conference board to request that the minister come to the meeting and respond as he endeavored to do here tonight. Besides being polite, this would, of course, pay for the discussion, for this matter is being seriously discussed. It's a little special, and I've previously called attention to what I think was happening in this case, that many mixed in the discussion at the beginning almost of a sense of duty, of course, all those who come close to the Foreign Affairs Committee and those factors, amateurs about developing people at the council, but as the discussion developed, it got heated, simply because they were convinced that it was going the wrong way with this. What I would like to mention in this regard is the importance of having an independent agency that cares for these matters. In fact, I think that applies to very many institutions in a number of cases. Even when we are weighed down, let us not underestimate this. We've wondered, of course, about the establishment of the Department of Employment, that it was practical to have a government agency that is in general interest in the economy and the main commercial means in the country. Its weaknesses are also seen with respect to agriculture. It was strength for the agriculture to have a ministry that had nothing to do with anything but agriculture. There's strength in it. That is why I have been able to understand views that have been expressed by those who are attending the College of Agriculture at the Netherlands. I am convinced that there are a number of practicalities that may be helpful in uniting the school at the University of Iceland. I don't know the discussion so well that I can say anything about it knowingly, but I understand the other viewpoint too. During my last term, I tried to establish what was supposed to be a lottery room to hold about a dozen million dollars in lottery business, gambling machines, and lotteries. Then said they, and said, Is it not as good to have this in the ministry as it is, or to put it in the county office? I don't think so. You see, I think it's very different to put an institution in charge of a particular project, and the other thing is that once it's entered the bigger context, it wants things to die. That's the way it is. That's why I think it's important to maintain this institution. At the beginning of this election period, the Environment Ministry under the Directorate of Employment heard it, and it was said, if I remember correctly, to unite even the Ministry of the Environment at Work. That's something people know how to remember. Would that have been good? Well, perhaps in a practical way, yes. I don't know the management department in this area to talk about this with any knowledge, but let's not underestimate having a environmental Ministry of particular interest in the environment. This is an important point for me to consider in connection with the decomposition of the Development Research Institute and this proposal to put it under the U.S. Department's umbrella. I have no doubt that there are ways of managing things there, but let's not belittle what happens when an independent institution to be given a specific, fixed project is put down and put under a much larger context. Then I would like to say that in view of this great discussion, there is something that we need to consider, including the highest. Minister. First, he needs to ask himself: " How is it that the discussion is so intense? Why is it that people come over and over again to talk and even to keep things quiet? That's what people do to make contact with the minister and the nation. They want to draw attention to the situation, not let it be locked up and run out, and that's what's happening in this case. Why is that? Could it be that it is a serious matter that drives people, a great deal of conviction, and a serious matter? I think so. I don't think that many in the councilroom have the conviction that these changes are for the good. Then I'll have to say, at least. President, to be convincing evidence that we are expected to stay and look to what is taking place on a global scale. Men have repeatedly referred to OECD work, a so-called DAC committee that is considering these matters and will report in the coming year. We're supposed to be waiting for this report. In the meantime, we can start a conversation with a transparapolitic approach, this is to be a parapolitic matter, this is not a group of political matters, and is not to be, and there would be any compromises, covenants, or compromises. Several ways have been discussed in this discussion. I feel like the highest. Secretary of State should take them offer of cooperation seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for his speech. I think we share an opinion on this matter. There are some things we've been trying to shed light on in this, why people are driving it so hard. We have justly claimed that there is a tremendously sensitive group of lawsuits, and it is not appropriate to continue to wage war, as has been done in this case, thus breaking a fine solid solid solidarity that has been parapolitic for a long time. Then we have been told that we are making gnats of gnats. Yesterday, I was told that this was one of the biggest wolfs of the smallest gnat that anyone had ever seen here, what we were making up of this case. If it's such a small matter as the Minister has said, it's just a small system change, and it doesn't matter to the jury, you wonder why men are driving it through here in this way. I know why. A senator's opinion of that? Why is this war being created? Why is this being run in a most unusual way through the committee, given only two meetings after the notice has ended with day notice or day apart, etc.? Then there is an evening meeting, and no one wants to talk to us about our suggestions on how we might get this in an attempt to create peace about this sect. I'm asking why. A senator: It may be at the highest level. A minister is not telling us the truth and the right thing when he insists that this is a small matter, considering how people drive it here through the council and with what force they are doing here and now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u112	V.E.G. President. I don't think anyone's wondering that this is a big deal. It's not a small thing, no matter how you look at it. Developmental cooperation and contribution to development are important issues that have been resolved. I think one explanation for why this is driven so hard and fast is this: evil is best over. I have faith that this matter is not on a solid basis here at the council. There is no strong conviction behind the case on the part of one of the members of the board and perhaps one of the members of the parish too, but I will not claim it, even if we know that it is the highest. The current president has expressed great pleasure in this matter of Congress. I think that in the overall sense, and we appreciate the members of the Independence Party's talks on the matter, we look at it, clearly see that there is no great agreement on the matter. What, then, can be done? It's probably just a horse wedding, we get this, I get this one, if you get the other. I think it's quite simple that the Independence Party is receiving the bill on public financial matters, an ideal child. The minister of the finance of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, and the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has his case in the development of a research organization, which I believe is, in effect, indistinguishable by many of the members of the Continent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u113	A respectable president. I had a conversation here with what also. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, already on this point, compared with other institutions as specialized as the development organization. Hv. For example, there has been a member of the local minister of the state, and the road has been in the discussion. She is extremely specialized in her handling of certain specialized tasks, diversity, and a well - thought - out position in a professional institution. Government officials have claimed that this is completely incompatible. There's a sharp distinction, I think it's exactly the same. You've got a group of paintings that require very much professional knowledge, a lot of preparation, a lot of difficulty, and an enormously specialized group, as I told you earlier. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon gave me an excellent answer, pointing out that the group of paintings is even more specialized and more delicate than the road repairs, and in this respect, it might be incorrigibly unacceptable. Then it would be even more reason to have a special organization around the developing world to ensure that those professionals in that field gain peace to carry out their work without perhaps having these political issues involved in the developing community at one time. I'd like to hear a point of view. That's for a senator. Everything that is going on in this case tells me, first of all, that people don't know what tribe is about and what nature it is, and secondly, that they don't care about him at all and are not interested in developing cooperation. Therefore, they argue that developing cooperation does not need a special agency, that it is a project that may be in the same office in the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u114	V.E.G. President. Development within the Commission during the past few years has been one-way, and this is based on indications coming from the General's study report, i.e. to distinguish individual aspects of the administration, to look to policy and decision making, to look forward and to follow up. The trend has been with us here in this room to try to put this in such a way that the council will make policy decisions and, to some extent, projects. It is then carefully implemented and then carried out elsewhere, such as by Vega. It performs, and to a large extent, it does what it does, then the inspection is done. So it's the Ministry and the council that comes back to it. It is based on this separation. This is going in the opposite direction, taking an institution that is considered to be highly fired, and doing its part very well, bringing it into the source of policy and decision-making, and then monitoring, although, of course, it will still be with outside parties and members of the council. There I believe we are walking in the opposite direction against what we have been advised to do and that we seem to be intelligent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u115	Mr. President. We'll discuss the bill that assumes that the Ministry of Development will be trimmeded, submitted, and joined by the State Department of State. I explained in my first talk on the subject that I was given along with three others. Congress members going to the UN General Assembly during the days. There we had a conversation with many members who work for development and various matters in the United Nations and very often with foreign representatives of the United Nations who made no exception to very beautiful comments about the work of the Agency. There have been discussions that no one complained about the activities of this institution, and this is certainly not because they have something to do with the work or the staff of the Agency to check that it is canceled. I think it's reliable. Actually, I got the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs is also a fine compliment in New York City at the General Assembly, especially for his participation in the project of ◯HeForShe. The people were happy to be included in the highest measure. Secretary of State and other Icelanders on that assignment. As a result, in the United Nations Congress, we can be proud of this, and we were now members of the European Parliament. We were a bit conceited by how many people spoke well of this institution. But she's supposed to lay down, and that's what we're talking about. The suggestions are based to some extent on the report by the son of Þórir Guðmundsson. The petition was carried out. The minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi's Sveinsson, and the objective of the report was to find out how to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of the group. Among the suggestions in this report are the development of development cooperation from the Developmental Research Institute to the Ministry of State and that Iceland sharpens the emphasis and dwindling cooperation countries in an effort to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of its efforts. Iceland operates mainly in three countries, Malawi, Mozambique, and Uganda. The primary concerns are mothers, children, education, and health care. There is no country that works in as few countries as Iceland is now. Although Iceland has smaller projects in other countries, mostly these three countries are involved, and it's strange if we are going to reduce them, I hope that they don't exist. V.E.G. After we had called and waited for him, the minister of foreign affairs came, and I was one of those who were very happy about his arrival. He could have come earlier and saved our time. But then he answered questions that had come up in the discussion, and he spoke in part of the idea that it was absurd that the idea of bringing down the development organization had come from a government economist. I felt that he was speaking as if he didn't even know that the eco-efficiency team had referred to a developing research agency. Still, it is not surprising that I had thought of this, that perhaps it might be the reason. Hv. Government senators who were part of the emissary are very closely connected, I allow myself to say, and they have stressed the importance of the Ministry acting on their proposals. The economists produced 111 suggestions, and a 30 motion is like this: a revised development program and a recent rise will be restored. And it was. The increase was retracted, and more than that, contributions to development are being revised. In this regard, I would like to refer to the review of the Red Cross that deals with this and call attention to the low contribution made by Iceland to development and talk about assistance to refugees. A review of the Red Cross states, with the permission of a president: In this context, it is worth mention that the definition of the OECD (DAC) evolution committee considers helping refugees for 12 months to fall under development cooperation. Whether or not they are candidates for asylum, those who receive their legal status as a fugitive approved by the sanatorium or those refugees offered by Iceland's Government to a country in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Institute for Refugees, the Foreign Recipients of the Red Cross and the Red Cross. A contribution to refugees in Iceland could therefore be one of Iceland's contributions to development. I think it might be a good idea, and I also add it here to the fact that we're going to have a certain amount, fixed, each year to assume that the reception of visitors to this country. The Red Cross makes the following motions, with the permission of a president: A modification of 2 mg is expected. Section 6. that they may be as follows: In the government policy on international development cooperation, a strategy for achieving the target of 0.7% of the nation's income by means of clear, targeted timing should be set out. Similarly, the proposed rate of forwarding to global development cooperation by terms of national income and how they should be divided on the basis of Iceland's strategy for developing cooperation. This was done during the last terms, but a new government took it off, and quite in line with the proposals of the economy group. Here's another proposition from the economy. She's number 24, and she says, with permission from the President: ▪ Secretary of State against a future policy on the organization and the trades of foreign service. Among other things, they can look to the Department of State Association interaction, other recruitments, Iceland Institutes, Development Groups, and emissary office. The development of neighboring foreign services will be examined, looking for examples of innovation that can improve efficiency and success. Right away. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of a budgetary committee and a financial group, spoke of these proposals, and specifically declared that there would be a cutting down to development cooperation and said that it was only the first steps she was telling about it. It is not surprising, then, that such an idea is the ultimate. Ministers to meet the suggestions of the economy group, as so many have done, but unfortunately they are not all as good as the two I mentioned earlier, most of them are not bad. However, the economist group speaks of looking abroad and considering the nature of the organization there, and it is very common to see that organized development is the same as it is here. In a minority party of night. The Foreign Affairs Committee is precisely noted that if I understand this correctly, the Italians have recently changed the arrangement they had in the Ministry and instead set up a special institution as we have. Perhaps it would be wise to look to the experiences of other countries. As I said before, there is no country with as few countries in its development cooperation as Iceland, which would be a rather reason to add. Of course, we, as we are, are to make at least a plan to approach the United Nations standards for development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. This discussion has considered a number of factors, including the handling of funds. Of course, there are a lot of money that goes on, though we Icelanders would like to meet the UN's target by 0.7% of GDP, that we're headed for it, that's where we're paying a lot of money. It's said to be high to 5 billion in everything. There's about 40% of what goes to the Development Organization today and 60% of the amount that goes to the Ministry will depend on the other activities that are also classified as part of this team. I want to ask you why. A senator on one. If the ministry is possible, how can you keep track of the money being used? Is it not likely that this will be a little off, and perhaps it will not be as much as possible to read how they are benefiting from what they have been using today? And whether it can be followed after the capital, the ratio targeted in the development teamwork that is supported by the development community today will definitely be turned into that category. That the danger is that there is a tendency to mix it up a little, and whether it will not be difficult for the financial committees to tell the difference, which falls under which side, this will be a bit of a stir, and it will also be an ostracism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. What has been most critical of the executives and specialists in this area is that during the operation of running a development research agency into the Ministry and that it has been said that the workers will be involved in other projects, as well. A senator suggested that the work, construction, and monitoring of the same hand be done. That doesn't seem like a good management board. Since then, it has been a concern that the expertise generated in a developing research agency will be lost. If employees participate in other jobs within the Ministry, that knowledge will become diluted. It has also been noted that the projects under development are long-term objectives. All of this takes place slowly and is not tented for one night but is set up for many years. However, other projects in the Ministry may be in other ways like foreign contracts, etc. But mainly government experts have noted that this is not a good management board, and it would be closer to accepting projects related to the development of the Agency and taking them into the Agency. It would be more reasonable than putting the agency in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is being justified in various ways and it has been observed by the minister that the operation will not change anything, the contribution of the Icelanders will still be used, and there will be a better use of the resources and people in the Ministry. It has also been suggested that by moving projects to the Ministry from the Development Research Institute, all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions is consistent and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy. The importance of international development is high on the part of the Icelandic government. There has been an urgent need for these things, but it does not seem that there is no way anyone can point out that there have been any conflict in these matters regarding the fact that the development of a research agency and those speaking for her was to speak for some other matter but to fall under our foreign policy. Counts 'em out. A senator as to this as evidence that this is why it needs to be transferred under the Ministry to keep their official language in place in the development community? And if it is not only wise to postpone a legal hearing and try to achieve political solidarity and to have a professional assessment of the need to change anything from the existing arrangement and whether we can unite in it. Or that we can get a logical report by why these huge changes are being made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u119	Mr. President. I have not heard anyone complain that the development community is not playing a rhythm with the foreign policy of the country, although I have heard complaints against other senior Icelanders who are thought to run their own foreign policy. I haven't heard it when it's time for a developing research agency. But I'd like to say I can understand the highest. The minister of state who has recently suffered the most recent surgery in his ministry. I can well understand that he wants more hands to do the work at the Ministry. But I don't think this is the way. I'd like to agree with what you're thinking. A senator that it would be wise to take a little pause and sit down, the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting on the matter and try to find a cohesion table. I've heard that from what I'm talking about. In recent days, members of Parliament are willing to land the case in some way, even though they are not prepared to release the matter unchanged from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u120	Mr. President. Maybe that's the last thing we discussed tonight, i.e. how the mind will be put in this position. Is there any way to get a person to take a breath and to settle over whether something is not working hard to create at least some minimal peace in the handling of this matter? Hv. paritaprevir The Oddný Harðardóttir referred to a relationship with the proposals of the economist group that discuss the interaction of evolutionary cooperation with the Ministry and other cases under which they hear. She knew where she was. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the budgetary committee, who has had strong statements and disparaging remarks on these matters, including the need for intertwining. I now believe it is the only senator who has publicly declared his opposition to an increase in this sect. She voted against it here. Of course, you can begin to wonder: " Has she taken control of these matters? Is this to some degree the opposite? paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir? At any rate, the result seems to be to show us in that we are going backwards and forward in this, and the ratio goes to 0.21% of GDP, if I know correctly, by the next year's financial bill. It is interesting, though, to consider what has been presented in the discussion, and the evidence on the practicality factor in this matter is presented. I suppose that's what. A senator knows what it's like, and he's been following a word exchange here today. It's not what. A senator agrees that it really lies before us after even the minister has acknowledged that there will be no profit? There's no argument about it. Well, then I hope we can raise our viewpoints. paritaprevir In the context of the fact that it has become the official conclusion of all who have discussed the role of the case that this is not going to follow any practicality, Vigdís Hauksdóttir. [[The president calls.]] Or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u121	Mr. President. That's exactly what we've been trying to figure out in the discussion, i.e. with regard to the change. What are the benefits, and what is involved? They're looking for an explanation. At any rate, it is clear according to the assessment of the bill that there will be no improvement in the change. If I remember correctly, no one will be a direct financial gain for bringing the workers into the Ministry. However, as I said earlier, for the ministry, it might be a practical thing to get more hands to do the work. In a situation like this, you start to guess what's going on. I think the highest. In order to strengthen the office of the Ministry, a minister took the suggestions of the economist, even though he did not act as if he did not know that they existed, in order to get more hands to do the work. The fact is that the State Department of State received a much greater cut-off than the other Ministry and more of the legal committees proposed an increased cut between discussions, I do not remember whether it was before 2014 or 2015, probably in the budget of 2014, in the management of the advisors of 5%, but more than 7% in the State Department. During the last term, natural cuttings were everywhere in the administration, and after we had straightened out the cow and returned the rest to the government funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u122	Mr. President. It's helpful to think back on. That's right, you remember that there was something we talked about at this time that the Ministry of State and the Ministry of State. A minister of foreign affairs would get a very fraughty ride under his sister's leading party, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Harðardóttir, and of course it was... [[Up top, Hawkdottir.]] Now my unnamed friend in town is going to be unhappy with this misapprehension. All right. But when it came in here like a tornado or a falling hammer just before 2nd. or even 3. Um, cutting up the department all of a sudden. I have, for example, been in a similar area in the past during the discussion. A senator about almost trying to figure out what could be the reason for this when there's nothing wrong with a developing research agency. On the contrary, the agency is well run and is an exemplary organization. V.E.G. A minister himself says, and a man such as has a certain understanding that he does not want to discuss this matter by referring to something that is wrong, only to do more. Since there is no problem in a developing cohesion agency, could it be that there is a problem somewhere else? In other words, the Ministry. Is this mountain background going down and cutting down the development community because it would make it easier for the Ministry to solve some business in the business, in human custody, in the organization, or in the organizational adjustment that will be brought into this costume because a development community is coming into the Ministry and disappearing from the surface of the earth as an independent agency, that this and the other things need to be done? On the contrary, such changes can be expected to follow the cost, the demand, the change in human life, the training of new people, or the application of new ones on projects. Has a financial committee handled that matter? [[The president calls.]] Has the Ministry been called for and asked the opposite question; not whether this will be the case, but whether it will result in this increase of costs, at least temporarily?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u123	Mr. President. Hv. The budget has not gone into the stitches at this point, but there are no suggestions for developing cooperation in the budget bill, if I recall correctly. But I don't know the bill entirely by heart. At any rate, however, no discharge is expected. I'm on top of it. Minister wants to try to strengthen the government within the Ministry, like now. A senator mentions, but in such a way, the management of the development team is weakened. This has been publicly criticized by experts in the media and in the committees of the council. They've said that it's a bad government, that it's being carried out and monitored on the same hand, that there's a lot of money there, and that it might be lost of expertise, and that it's not a good way. To tell you the truth, I haven't heard a good reason to go that way. I haven't even heard good arguments from the highest. Minister. So I think it's inevitable that the members of the committee will be in trouble. The Foreign Affairs Committee will sit down and try to find a flat surface to solve the issue, for then it is. Parliaments here spoken to the past few days will not accept this organization around the development community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u124	Mr. President. There is reason to continue this matter, still for a while, as is said at times. I've been reviewing and going through a report issued by the Foreign Minister on the requested development team. As you slide through it, you will see that it is written in a bit of defense. It is as if they are trying to justify themselves rather than be convinced of what they are trying to do. It says that the purpose of bringing the Development Organization into the Ministry is primarily to achieve greater power, flexibility, and coordination in the seminary. It is as if such goals cannot be achieved by moving the project out of the Ministry and into the Development Organization. This may highlight what was said in the past, the purpose of moving it would be more to strengthen a weak ministry than to improve the group's specific issues. It is once that when we discuss something that is well run and is successful, and there is no comment to it, we might say, " We're doing it better. ' The secretary has wondered, and the report also shows that developing cooperation at conventions and in the media is often about the content, such as financial and financial contributions, and how they are used, to which countries, and in what way, and in emphasis, and not in the organization. We have wanted to discuss it with the minister, to expand our donations, and to support more and more in developing cooperation. We have noted that this is the way we would like to have a conversation with him rather than to discuss it. But the exit point is not to solve the success and efficiency problem, says here, but to change organization to the rhythm of existing developments, and it is predictable to continue. There's been quite a story about this. Worldlight has taken it together and gone through history, including the developments that have taken place, much more so than in terms of the Ministry's drawing on projects that belonged to the development community, they have sought the task rather than the other. This may be the kind of evolution that is being quoted. I also found it interesting to read an answer to a 6th question in the secretary's report to discuss whether it was not allowed to go the opposite way, i.e. moving projects to the Development Agency, such as the conclusion of the last administration of the Agency and the Independence Class were under the Regulation in 2005. The testimony is given in the report by Secretary - General Þórir Guðmundsson, who is in charge of his decision. A writer suggests three benefits and is an option of bringing all development cooperation under the Ministry of State and an option of three projects to the development of the Agency. One writer concluded that at least 1 and 3, there are at least 2, the problem is that the Ministry and its Substitution are virtually competitive members on the market for development cooperation. It seems that those preparing this fusion will view Iceland's Development Group as a competition to the Ministry for Development Cohesion. That's a very specific approach to me. The report of Þórir also shows that developing cooperation is no longer a simple project and should not be the case and that policy and monitoring are the main projects of modern development cooperation. If most of the current projects were to be brought to the development of the Agency, the surveillance and policy would still be in the Ministry. It is, of course, a traditional body of counselors and founders. These are the reasons why the work could not be simplified. It can also be concluded that other departments do not achieve practicalities or such in view of this statement regarding recruitment and organisational practices. It's been a conflict that's been going on for years and it's been coming back to me, was in the worldlight, and was also in the hour. It was passed through six cabinet ministers in their arms and has been tried to take over the Agency in some way for all of these times. Even so, ministers have not been deceived into this, from which point of view they have been. I wondered about the meditation presented here, which speaks of the increase in money for development, and thus the Ministry of State has moved into the field of two - sided assistance and has taken up projects belonging to a developing research agency. Thus, the Ministry of State has taken steps to provide as much two-way assistance as is provided through the Developmental Cooperation Agency and, in fact, progressively undermined the Agency. However, there are very different practices and practices between the two parties. As we know and have discussed, the development of the European Development Agency has developed its work according to the rules set by the DaAC, which are applied on a global scale in which the duties of members are thoroughly defined, while the Ministry is not doing so, and that an independent reviewer covers a project at the end of the contracts and is taken out, what could be successful and what could not be accomplished. That's not done at the Ministry. All the projects that have been carried out by the Development Organization for the past 25 years are in accordance with this procedure. All of this is official, all of the reports. No contracts have been made in the plots. No progress or completion has been made at the Ministry, at least not that we have been exposed to it. I'm worried that there's no regard for, for example, social science field, i.e. What Dr. Jónína Einarsdóttir does as she looks to the Norwegian experience of moving evolution to the politicians, which she has severely criticized. I'm sorry it's not done. I also wondered, " Is it just a matter of making squares for council workers, some jumpsticks to preconceivil? ' Also, when you're confronted with the media that there's no reasoning, not a conversation between those who want this bill to succeed, you're going to be able to go through the gaps. The logical support presented in this report is too weak to remain convinced that this is the course of wisdom. In order to improve the work of a good man, the Ministry of State will only be reached by moving the Agency into the Ministry. Despite warnings that it is not wise to do such things, that procedures and projects, surveillance, reporting, and so on, it is a minister's decision. I believe we have a responsibility to try to resist, as we have done, and to keep this bill from going forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Maybe I'd like to start by using it after one of these because of a session on the budget, about the experience of changing like this. The minister has concluded that savings and economics will not be expected from putting the Agency down and taking it into the Ministry as planned. But it's like I'm wondering if Government Accounting has made surveys for why. The budget of the same procedure has actually carried out a significant cost when it was under attack. You might ask yourself, " If it is not worth saving, why is the matter so urgent? ' On the other hand, I wanted to take this opportunity to ask. A senator sees whether she sees any ways in which a decision in the matter might be met or at least any change in the case that will contribute to a greater agreement on its treatment at the council, which would be the only thing to make changes in the senator's opinion that, despite the failure of the government, could be better settled or even fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u126	Mr. President. No, I think about the cost, as noted earlier, it is not likely that this will result in some cost at the beginning of this period. The report also states that the number of workers will remain unchanged. This may change after a letter has been handed over to the director, but at least that savings will become apparent. Otherwise, what needs to be done has not been considered, but there is reason to call for their visualization. What suggestion would be in the situation? I think that would be the proposal we've made, the smaller part of a council, about at least delaying the execution until the fall of 2017, until after the election, in the hope that we will accept a new viewpoint that allows the case to become available until then, there should not be any harm to us. I think that solution is the only solution that could lead to peace, though I am deeply concerned that there is no one willing to do so. I'm afraid I think the highest. Ministers have bitten it so hard to plan on doing it this way that it doesn't matter how long we talk or how it's gonna be, he's just planning to get through it. As I traced before and fired before, it doesn't seem to matter that this is a minister number seven, and it seems to be the only one who is distracted by the wisdom of it. He does not make it necessary for his associates and ministers who have not been taken this step before him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer but would like to continue the senator for his experience in the legal field, especially the issues that depend on the problems of taking this assignment into the Ministry and putting down the independent agency. It is then, on the other hand, the monitoring factor and the concern that some have described as an increased risk of corruption in the management of public funds and the political corruption and management of funds that are of importance to direct and complete to developing cohesion itself rather than to some kind of quality activity or cooperation with employment that serve not primarily the interests of developing cooperation but the individual enterprises or interests in individual companies, as unfortunately, are all too many examples throughout the world. Does the senator think that he should be concerned about the factors that result from this shifting order? Then, the matter was taken up for 2nd. During the council, without a physical review from the Red Cross, some six or seven material comments are made on individual branches of the bill. Does the senator not believe that there is real incorruption and full reason to pass the matter without two o'clock? Do you finish, again to the committee to make things right?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with a National Review that has said that monitoring will, of course, not be comparable. The report and extracurricular activities will not be as beneficial. I think we have a situation here. It is a little special to make such a journey when it comes to calling for a state to be transfused as most of the duties of the State. It may also be thought that the chairman of a financial committee that has talked a lot about monitoring institutions and other such factors would actually want to go this way, as this will disappear into the State Ministry of State and, in fact, very little can be observed. Money management, how it's going to be handled. This, of course, goes hand in hand. In itself, we know very little what this is like in the scheme of things. The United Nations polls and the Peace Guard have been cited in this discussion as an example of the lack of all assessments, and there is no basis for that activity. It's very pathetic. You're just about to put your money on the line. These are tasks that no doubt are all right and all, but it shows us and further confirms that this is not the way we want to go. I also find it unacceptable, as the statement of the Red Cross says, that the committee did not take the time to review those points. Although the matter has been discussed at the last assembly, it is not the same today. This is a matter for this council that needs to be discussed as a new subject. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u129	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't really believe the information I got in the Senate. It told me that the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, the traveling overseer of this assembly, and its only supporters at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, would not be at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. [["And the president who sits... "]] Once again, this matter does not matter enough for the minister to be present himself. This is certainly not to be paid for the progress of the matter or because there is some smell in the council, at least I must say. I'm calling for the president to make a message for the Minister, have him come to a council meeting and pause at a council meeting until this request has been granted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u130	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, of course, that's not good. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is not there. Of course, absence can be said to be the ultimate. A minister would be an illuminator to the entire case, from the time of the attack on this march with no consultation with all the political parties at the General Assembly. As a result, the tradition of developing cooperation, political consultation, and reconciliation were thus broken. I studied in my speech yesterday how important it is based on various reasons to make peace with this special group of subjects and how other governments have succeeded. That's the best. A minister chooses to be absent describes his attitude that may be seen at the very beginning of the case, i.e. that there was no need for a discussion or a discussion with the opposition to the government. I declare that I am beyond my greatest dissatisfaction with my alibi. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u131	A respectable president. I've been waiting here all day to find out and to have a few words at the top. Secretary of state. It is the general understanding of the legal authorities, so I allow myself to quote a 2009 report on the Council's surveillance that if the general council does not have access to needed information, it is impossible for them to take an independent stand on issues to be discussed at the General Assembly. Then false or misleading information can affect the attitude of members of Congress and at the same time decide. Yet, several aspects of this matter have been made clear that we have not yet received an answer. I insist that I have the highest power. Secretary of state for the council so he can answer questions. I've asked him many questions, and everyone's been asking him many questions, and he's never really got to the right answer. He is under obligation to answer us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u132	Mr. President. I just think it's ridiculous. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs will not let you down. After all the discussion and all the dissatisfaction that he has had here, he showed a little color for a while today, but that did not last long. Now it's the highest. A minister is dried up, and gone from house to house, to be enlightened. To be honest, I thought he was in the area, maybe in the side room, or something like that. It brings to mind what is happening to any person in this country, the failure of this government. I'm starting to think it's a biological thing too, it's just a lack of energy, it's about to be sent out to the men and the vitamins and try to get them started if they can't hang out here at night, they're home at just over 9 a.m., completely untemperated people. Don't have your sets pressed to the highest. Secretary of state so much lately. I don't think it's appropriate for me to leave all the fun out of it. I've challenged the president many times to use the opportunities and grounds here, which are always coming up and teaching the counsellors manners. They need to realize that their language is not moving in the council unless they carry out their duties and are there to answer for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u133	A respectable president. First, it goes very fast and unusual through a committee. Second, they do not participate in this discussion; they do not argue, and they do not try to communicate with us or answer our questions. Third, the minister has no interest in having a word with us, and fourth, the president, the minister, and the government are not answering many of our commands to have a word with us about the possibility of reconciliation in the matter. I think there are four different suggestions on how peace might develop. The matter is now being run into an evening meeting, where the minister is not going to be there and not one of the members of the board is in the hall. Is this an acceptable Allied Assembly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u134	Mr. President. If people are to follow through, they must endure. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs was in the last term in a different period, but perhaps desirable, as was said here, the Ministers received vitamins even though I feel that the government is not working too well. Nevertheless, there are questions I would like to contend with a minister I did not do earlier, since he is not in a house. I would like to have a chance to ask him, and if I have to continue speaking here and wait for him, I'll just do it, but it would certainly be desirable for a minister to sit in the discussion. The best thing would be for him to sit down with the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee to discuss seriously the compromise offered by the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u135	A respectable president. The person standing here has many years of experience as a man of the punk band facing opposition and apathy of the audience and is slow to trouble or to take such action personally. I've done little by making demands that ministers or prominently attend my talks, but here we are looking at things differently. These have been provided logical and numbered questions that have not been answered. A majority of the Generals made their decision earlier today to make a special evening meeting, probably in the hope of finishing 2nd. about this bill, and, in the highest way, I find it inappropriate that no one is here to answer and that a minister is not in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u136	Mr. President. First of all, I want to express great disappointment in the Supreme Court. Secretary of state is out of the hall. Somehow, I had hoped that he would jump into action along with the Foreign Affairs Committee and find an agreement on the case. If he was in here listening to our arguments, I thought he would see a game on the table to figure out how the matter could be resolved. Second, I'd like to ask a president if he called after the Supreme Court. Secretary of state, ask him to stay in the hall. Third, I'd like to ask what exactly is the realm of authority for Generalis if the Supreme Court is. Ministers do not obey the call of the president when they are called to the Hall of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u137	Mr. President. While we are in the government situation, we are late tired of trouble, but now I'm getting really low on me and no doubt more because of the highest pressure. A minister does not intend to attend this discussion. He showed a slight look for dinner, and he went down into certain issues involving this bill and this huge controversy. He should have followed that counsel and made material objections to those in charge and discussed what we would be doing if something was wrong and reduced our anxiety on various matters that have been gleaned here. Not having more endurance than this to be in the discussion shows that a minister is at the best age. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] There's some sleigh going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u138	Mr. President. I'd also like to say that earlier today, there were votes to have a late meeting. I voted against it, but the top of the board voted that there would be a night meeting, probably because they were eager to participate in the conversation on this fine Wednesday night. The thirst seems to have gone out in the meantime, and I'm beginning to suspect that most people are asleep. The members of the Management Board are at home with their families because they do not want to discuss developments with the government. Why don't they want to discuss these matters with us here? How is it that these fine people vote for an evening meeting so that the General seminar can have a conversation but will not participate in the discussion? Still, they admitted that they loved having more time to discuss this important matter. I ask: Don't the Council's Presidency Committee need to consider the strange way in which people want a meeting that they don't so invite? [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a good use of time and we'll need more meetings to make sure that it is. The members of the greater part may be present. They all seem busy somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u139	A respectable president. It has to be said that 38 members of Congress are calling today after an evening meeting, while the Allied Council of Iceland now has two candidates and two independent men. In spite of the clear regulations of the council to attend a meeting unless there are some serious personal benefits, 17 prominent members are likely at home, and 17 members of independence are also required to attend a meeting. This is a disgrace to both administrations, but it also shows that there is only one member of the Allied Parliament who supports this bill, the highest. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. No prosecuting party or district shepherd to come here and try to reason or support this matter by word or deed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u140	A respectable president. I have simple inquiries to the president, first of all, will be the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs for tonight's discussion? Second: We will be answered, i.e. the order we have received to the chairman of the council, the chairman of the Committee, the highest. Secretary of State and all those who have this case? We've offered some reconciliation routes. Will we be answered tonight? Fourth, is there any hope for some kind of reconciliation to be proclaimed in this matter? And then I'd like to ask, fifthly, if the answer to the above questions is no: How far are people going to drive this meeting into the night? Is this the case really going to be forced through the committee? Is that work to continue through the council? I would love to know the answers to these questions by the president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u141	Mr. President. That's exactly what we're saying. At the government opposers, we didn't ask for that evening meeting. I mean, most of it wanted him. At that time, the same ones with their votes must have been aware that they would be bound by their councils here tonight. All men in the first place would have been the highest. The minister of state should be aware that since an evening meeting with a vote to discuss his case, he must be present tonight during that discussion. For 65th. By permission of the President's Court of Congress, which is a law in this country: It is important for members of Parliament to attend all meetings unless they have to be banned. Premium must be announced to the president as soon as possible... Have all but the four executives in the house been notified of incursion? Has the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs reporting incursion? He knows that he is requested during the discussion. The man should hardly have missed any longer, so I just don't feel that it's appropriate to keep up with this discussion unless it comes true, to the highest degree. Minister, please. [[The president calls.]] Yet, it would hardly be easy for anyone to discuss this with all those who had accepted their evening meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u142	Mr. President. It is very strange that the senators who did not approve of evening meetings at work, while the members of the council did not attend their jobs. As we have seen, it is the duty of members of Congress to come to work according to Congress. Along with other members of the Parliament, we have received considerable remuneration from the Council of U.S.A. It is a question: Should it not be a mere visit to those non-continent members of Congress who require that a meeting be held until the evening? It is with the enmanagement of these matters. I also say it's very strange that only one off. A senator supports this matter, but he cannot express himself now as he sits in the chair, that no other senator is supporting the matter in a verb, and in some way he gives evidence of it in a talk chair. [[The president calls.]] This is so pathetic, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u143	Mr. President. I suggest we pause at this meeting until the highest. Secretary of state is coming. I think the President is aware, like the rest of us, that this discussion can't go on unless it's the highest level. Secretary of state to be present. I also agree with the comments of other speakers who complain about it. The senators who agreed to have a night meeting are out of the hall. What on earth were these evening meetings being offered if they were not going to try to land the case and finish it? It won't be finished, Mr. President, unless you're participating in the Supreme Court. Secretary of state. I think that's pretty clear. The matter needs to be resolved, and it needs to come to the hall to discuss the matter with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u144	Mr. President. First, I'd like to ask you, has there been an invitation for Ministers? As mentioned earlier, this is a seminar. When an extended conference was discussed today, which I voted for, I felt talked down to me when the senator of the candidates said that this is a part where members of the body could continue talking to one another. I've been calling after a conversation. I don't think it's enough that the two senators who have been in the Senate and who represent the Foreign Affairs Committee, representing each member of their government party, do not join us in the conversation. I'm gonna ask like others, "How long will the President plan for a meeting tonight? It's kind of clear, as we've been traced, that if no conversation is achieved, we're not going to finish this case tonight. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it would be wise to make more use of our time and sit down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u145	V.E.G. President. The apathy of the Governments of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnyllson in developing cooperation is not surprising, but it is surprising that this is the government's position to vote with a night meeting when not one member of the government unless the secretary of state has been prepared to discuss this matter here tonight. If the matter is so urgent that they want to have a meeting until after night without any need, it would be reasonable for them to tell us about the concept that drives them to put down one of the better institutions of the state, the European Development Organization for Iceland. We have led to the probability that this will have a very negative impact on Iceland's development partnership and that we would like to know what governments would like to see positive in this matter for the development of the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u146	The President wants to say the highest power. The minister of foreign affairs has been invited to request his presence at the meeting, and he will attend a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u147	A respectable president. I'm very happy to hear that. The minister of state is going to be seen in this chamber. I have many questions for him. However, it doesn't mean anything for me to be talking here while he's not here, or what? I'm going to use this opportunity, with the permission of the president, and I'm going to review a report called Commission Control with the Commission, a report made by the Commission to review the current Council's current legislation on the execution of the Commission and to evaluate if any change is needed. This report was prepared in 2009. It is very interesting to consider more carefully the information advice of the Minister to the Generals. This issue is not about developing cooperation as such but about government, authority, where the limit is and who to make the decision. As mentioned in the case of the highest order. Secretary of State has decided on this at a government meeting. The last time I knew, the Generals were to take over the law, not the government meeting. However, it may well be that all we need to do is change the constitution so that it reflects the present arrangement, since it clearly does not now. Now I'm going to read about the Minister's intelligence to the Generals: It is impossible for the general members to take their own position in matters under General Opportunities. This is true in any form of Congress, whether in the case of law-employing, concierge, or a case related to the surveillance of the General Assembly. Then false or misleading information can affect the attitude of members of Congress and at the same time decide. This may result in accepting measures that would not otherwise have been taken or rejecting a proposal that would have been accepted in case of correct information. A false source of information to the Council thus undermines the foundations of a democratic decision. Therefore, it is important to have accurate and meaningful information given to the General so that the Generals can take an informed stand on the interests of society. There are no legal requirements for the information that individual members of the Parliament put on the basis of their stand on matters. From this point of view, no matter where they come from and how reliable they come from. While Christians must deal with their conscience, they may need to explain their position and bear political responsibility to voters. However, it is clear that the Council is very much supported by information presented by the Ministers for the council and is attributable to the Commission. In counsellors, certain legal obligations may be laid in connection with this information, and members of the Parliament have the legal right to inform them. Legally, this means that it leads to a court order and that it is possible to enforce it in one way or another according to legal procedures or that the relative may be responsible for legal responsibility will violate it. Although this is not a requirement for providing information, certain laws on the implementation of a minister of information may also be valid. In particular, the Committee for Presidency requested that the staff consider whether there is a greater need for more detailed information on the minister's giving to the council and its obligation to address the issues of the General Assembly. Furthermore, it is requested that the group consider whether the right of members of Congress should be better determined to inquire at the General and to request a clear minister. The first point involves the general duty of a minister in general to the council to provide information but the second to the right of members of Congress to call for information, especially 54th. The Constitution and 46th par. and 49th pars. Congress. Although this is not the same opinion, the work force has decided to discuss these points at a single time, since these factors are closely related. In the neighboring countries, the rules apply to both aspects, as will be discussed in the following chapters. As a result, the trend has been to enter a constitution or a solemn order, which was once set up on unscheduled regulations, such as a court order. In this regard it is necessary to identify the legal situation in this country according to local regulations as well as the implementation of the Council as possible. In relation to each point, the work group considers whether there is a reason for improvement in the current rules. The above rules will also be considered in Norway and Denmark, as well as the rules in Sweden and Finland as the materials can be considered. The next chapter is for a general information and truth-oriented minister to the General Assembly: In general information and truth ministers, it refers to general guidelines on when a minister is obliged to submit information to the Council and what requirements are made for the information. In this country, a thorough investigation has not been made to determine whether such duties lie on stewards according to current rights and what they are. However, Ólafur, son of Jóhannesson, turned aside from the inquiry of members of the council and the reports request and rightly assumed that these provisions allowed for the council to observe the government. The order of these correct members of Congress would be in the Constitution, but it would be more specific to asking and reporting in the Senate. He then, without extensive logic, asserted that a minister was obliged to respond to a requisition that had been permitted. However, there would be no special penalties to neglect in this regard, but it would probably be considered a public neglect of office and could thus become a criminal. However, he pointed out that at times there could be an opinion of a thorough and precise answer could be demanded by a minister, and it might be possible to ask a question about something that the Minister of Ministers feels is not allowed to discuss, in which case the council should not have allowed the inquiry to be allowed. A 1999 report on government working conditions made a similar point. It said that the Allied Council had the right to obtain information from the Minister and he was obliged to respond to a inquiry or a file request that has been permitted on the basis of 54.g. The constitution. Still, a minister would have determined how he would provide answers to queries, as long as they are correct and sufficiently detailed, so that an informed discussion can be made available on the subject to the next question. The above study was limited to information giving in the preliminaries'requests for answers or explanations from counsellors. In other cases, the duties of ministers such as those of the Parliament are not being taken by the government. In an article published in 2005 by Eiríkur Tómasson on the Ministry of Qualification, such a general obligation of information and truth and the attention to the fact that there was no violation of such obligation in the Minister of Accountability in this country as in Danish law on the same topic. He noted that since these laws are not strictly stated in the Constitution or in any other law, it would be questionable that a minister would be punished, even though he would be told that he had given misinformation to the General or misinformation or kept important information to the Council. He recommended that this material be taken into account in the Minister's Qualification Act in this country and, among other things, indicated that the obligation rests on stewards according to their administrative status to inform the council of the administrative activities that they hear, including what they and their subordinates have done, at least if followed by members of the council, such as 54. of the Constitution, to be observed in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of the Holy Bible. He naturally felt that such a duty was a punishment, such as a violation of silence. He then referred to the need to sharpen this obligation in view of its increasing importance as the government would become more extensive and specialized. As discussed in this discussion, scholars in this country believe that information related to councilmen should be subject to information, attitudes, or explanations of a minister, and that the answers of a minister on the grounds of queries must be consistent with the truth. It refers to the Constitution of the Generals for information according to Article 54. The constitution. However, it appears that there is a greater uncertainty as to whether such obligations to the secretary of information to the General in other cases, as discussed in Eiríkur. At least he does not seem to be able to say without delay that the general responsibility of knowledge and truth rests on stewards simply by referring to their administrative position. The working group may not determine whether such a general legal obligation can be brought by a government minister alone, and it must be found more solidly supported by accepted rights. The Constitution, as it has been commonly defined, does not take this into account, although it allows for the council to act if a minister holds vital information confidential or explains the council wrong. In contrast, in Norway it was thought that the general responsibility of this kind of information and truth would rest on advice against the Council on the basis of a regime which was based on the results of a number of cases that had been handled as to whether the secretary's information was correct or sufficiently clear. However, scholars seemed to agree that a minister was not obliged to take the initiative in providing information that he was living on except the government's matters for the council. A respectable president. As you can hear, and we'll see here I've got four seconds left. [[The president calls.]] All right, all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u148	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Although she may not have turned the matter directly, she turned to the conclusion that a senator was reviewing the duties of a minister to participate in the seminars of the Council. I thought it would be nice to review it a bit, but it also comes out in the Senate for what can be expected of stewards. I'll be out of this, getting in. A senator, after the democratic discussion that should have been conducted here, does only to a limited extent, where the majority ignores the memory of the section, whether it agrees with me that the result is that the greater part is coming in in disrepute. And so, in view of what she went over, whether a minister allows himself to interpret the rules behind the job, whether he has a self - righteous example of whether he is present to answer questions or not. You have wondered, " There is no logical support for this case by a minister, or very limited. ' I'm asking why. Hence, a member of this democracies, whether it falls into what it was reading, whether it should even be that the greater part was stronger, or not with a vote right, should be separated from the council. [[The president calls.]] There is one way to get a little democratic discussion here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u149	A respectable president. I had two masks when I came in here. Every time I've been here at the High Council, there has been an consideration of some issue that lies ahead of the battles. Secretary of state. First, it was the European Union, a conquistador proposal to retract our application, which was completely wrong. What did he do next? He just went behind the high Council and did so in a letter that he had exactly no legal decree of the Generals to send. Then there is the European Development Agency. It seems to be a major dissociation of all phases of action. Secretary of state. I think the more part is silent when it comes to discussing his case. I think there's a lot to say. It tells the vast amount of this thin silence from the greater part, that the greater part is not here to discuss this matter. It's a controversial matter. We're dealing with how we want our administration, whether we want an independent agency that handles two-way contracts when it comes to a developing research agency. It is a serious matter that people take away the democratic responsibility of being elected at the General Assembly. It is most serious that the more part does not participate in this discussion and at least try to understand why we are concerned about it. And the treatment was not too much for the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u150	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This may be the characteristic of the government, this inconsistencies in conflict. These include the Development Agency and the European Union - things are pushed forward, and it doesn't matter what a person thinks, I'm going to do this because I can. I want to roll up with what. A senator what I have discussed in this matter, i.e. transparency. As the process is now, there is much transparency in the activities of the Developmental Grouping Agency, for both the work contracts, the monitoring and the assessment, all of which are official data. I'm worried that if this goes into the Ministry, the translucency will be gone. I'm asking why. A senator would agree with the view that such a thing could happen. As we have considered in this discussion, it has been noted that there is a tendency to revise some activity inside the Ministry. It hasn't been done. That is why you have doubts about the extent to which it will be on the table today. That's all I find to be an enormous argument. We'd like to increase the government's transparency. We want it to be more visible and open. This is shutting it down in my opinion. I'm gonna ask the senator if she sees anything on it other than me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u151	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator, this raises questions about transparency. We have a small community - and that's one of the main reasons we're doing this in the Ministry, that there's a lot of expertise in these jobs. A lot of expertise is possible inside the Ministry, I don't know, it might be a good idea for what the Ministry is doing. But because of the low level of Icelandic society, it is even more important to respect the governmental boundaries we have for independent institutions. More important, we give people a distinct authority field to work after. That's why I think and believe that it is better to have an institution like the European Development Agency in a special institution. This is not only to increase transparency but also to have a clear range of responsibilities, to have greater degrees of authority separation. This is a matter of distribution of power, a question of whether this new management agency, New Iceland, announced after a collapse, will become a reality. We've had enough of this old power of government, where every one of us sits on his throne and has a good view of power. I feel like this old Iceland is rather than trying to solve the problems and spread power. It's number one, two and three in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u152	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and her comments. Maybe that's what's been given the highest. Minister of State to come and sit here with us during this discussion. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Make Ásta to the Guðrún - given daughter of Helgadóttir into Jer 23rd. in which there is a discussion on the development co-work committee. Today, the Allied Council chooses seven members of the Development Committee and then a minister appointed on that committee. It's changing now. Among these is the argument that Þórir Guðmundsson, in his report, noted that the activities of the development committee were of little purpose and that information is reluctantly transmitted to the General Assembly and to the Joint Conference too seldom to influence the development of policy makers. Since there seems to be a special law on developing cooperation, it is now time for the general members of the committee to put themselves on this committee. There are five members of the council to be chosen, and thus may we be expected to receive more information. Today, there are six members of the General Assembly, so some members or individuals will not have representatives there. I don't know if the elected Generals are going to attend a council meeting with non-committee members. But does the senator agree that in order for members of the Parliament to gain insight into policies on litigation and activities, they themselves need to sit on governments and committees rather than on their representatives?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u153	A respectable president. I appreciate that question from what? Senator. I don't think politicians should be on that kind of professional committee. This should be within the agency and within the Ministry, if that is the case. I find it very interesting to intend to put members of the Parliament into the development team issues in order to improve policy development. If there is a problem with Iceland's Development Agency working against Icelandic foreign policy, it's the probable cause that can be fixed. Politicians, we're sitting at the council - this isn't our part. This is how bad decisions have been made in evolutionary cooperation, when politicians decide to build dairy homes where there are no cows. That's when things get out of hand. Us senators are often accused of being in an endless budget. What would we say if all of a sudden we were on the Council Committee of the Vega or the Study Institute? I don't know if it's that way, but I would feel very strange if the senators were arguing about whether the wheel of the book would turn red or blue and what kind of tone it should give to young children. I don't want politicians running around with issues like this. It hasn't exactly been legal to participate in this committee, as far as I know, whether she should meet at least twice a year or something like that, so I don't feel it necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u154	Madam President. It also shows in the opinion of the minority that there has been a complaint of alleged bifocals, it would be better to coordinate this with the Agency entering the Ministry, but there could be no such example within the committee. Clearly, this is going well, and evolution is an exemplary government agency. That doesn't seem to be a problem. I also know that the Group of Groups of the United Nations has called in a representative of the development team for information when we were discussing development cooperation. This is what we do as members of the council. We call out to ourselves those whom we have assigned to do certain tasks and elected here at the council and one person who can provide information from outside our home. In our work, we are not to sit on all the personal mails making decisions. Rather, we choose people to do so and then seek information if we need it or feel that something is wrong. It is a natural procedure, the procedure that has been performed in the Council. There's a lot of leftovers. I think it's one of the Cathedral's Cathedrals and National Council members. We have a Þingalla National Park on the Þingvall Committee. It is a historical reason and is, in fact, out - of - date phenomenon, where members of the Parliament are considering certain matters regarding the National Park of the Þingles. Why the transfer of this to a developing cohesive agency is totally incomprehensible to me. I think this smells like it when I read it, and I think it's kind of embarrassing, that you're making a bite for members of the council and a little club to a foreign place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u155	A respectable president. I think that the reason why this alleged double effort has not been identified is because Iceland's Development Cooperative Organization is only responsible for two-sided development agreements during the time of the State Ministry of State to treat international development agreements. These are very different types of development teamwork. Two - sided development teamwork is well defined as a phenomenon, something we have to cooperate with certain countries in the world. This is rather complete, and 70% of the global development team is two - sided evolutionary agreements. The other 30% are multinational development treaties. It's like an RDP and more like that. There are more sources of funds to work on special projects here and there. I don't see how it could theoretically be an overlap there, except that the UN must be in Uganda, just as Iceland can be there, but it doesn't have to be double-worked in it. I mean, about the fact that they're making some travel club. I was able to travel quite a lot when I was a poor student. At a church convention, a person has even more between his hands than a poor student. It doesn't always have to be in five-star hotels because of some conference to have an excuse to travel. I think it's good to see the world, just like the world's highest. The prime minister pointed out to all of us. We could all start selling our apartments now, first years of such a good time and travel. But it all smells funny to me, so that's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u156	A respectable president. I came up here in the second talk about the bill, but to my surprise, I didn't have time to get everything I wanted to talk about in my previous talk last night. I just want to talk about trust. It could probably be discussed in a variety of ways, but I would like to discuss it in particular from the case of the development team. In many ways, developing cooperation is a very special project, unlike most public projects in order for the work to be carried out and to support communities that are usually far away and communities that are very different from ours. Developmental cooperation is essential in order that communities and countries with wealth, stability, and strong organizations support states or areas that are less fortunate. It is by no means likely to be doing such a job because it tells itself that in areas where agencies are weak or lowly, there is a higher standard for what we are about to call transparent and careful work, and perhaps little knowledge is already there, it is quite different to work where we know each other. One of the things that is so fun in this long discussion and discussion about this, I allow myself to call it an unexploitable option, is to experience the trust of Iceland's Development Cooperative Agency, and the knowledge and ability of the European Development Agency have shown precisely in these matters, working in difficult and different circumstances, finding partners and working together with those who have knowledge to get the money to the best of it. Sadly, there are far too many examples of developing cooperation and relief efforts that the race is on its way to a good mind and faith, even building materials or money have come to places where there is no way to use them. Many people have heard of such cases as saying that there is an excessive tendency to pursue certain facades, whether in certain areas or on certain tasks, and suddenly they are stuck with drowning in money to eat wells where they do not lack wells or where no one can drill after them, but there is no money to run ambulances or nurses. The European Development Agency of Iceland has not only this professional knowledge and ability to perform and perform such tasks well, but it has also gained confidence in cooperation in cooperation countries, the partners chosen in the provinces, rural governments, in the volunteer organisations, etc. The local authorities also trust them. This is of great value and more than that, because you have received the testimony from many developing countries that have much longer history than in us, perhaps much more powerful and with much more money between your hands, when there has been mistrust between evolutionary cooperation, we should call it the gift, or those who provide assistance, and governments or society where it is silent. This is not the only trust that matters, for the development community is also very stable in Icelandic government and political. And I think it's quite unforeseeable how it's taken place in the Senate case and in the case of the State Department and the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs. Ministers to the Development Agency have high trust in Iceland, management and politics. When asked about a statement in a paper with the bill, about the importance of ensuring that development teamwork is in the right pace with Iceland's foreign policy, etc., and more questions have been raised there, it has not been the highest. A minister or other members of Parliament would actually like to point out some specific example of this being a problem or that it was ever the case. It seems, therefore, that there is high trust in a non-surpassing development agency, a model agency. The third trust that I wanted only at the end of my speech is the trust of the public, not only in the development community and its activities, but also in the politics, politicians, and Icelandic agencies that are being proposed to take over control and responsibility for this category. It has to say that over the last few years, we haven't had much confidence, with politicians. Sadly, trust in our key institutions, such as those employed, may have fallen in proportion to the falling trust of those who control them. It must be important that the development team of Iceland not only has the trust of our representatives in the General Assembly, in politics and those best known in the administrations, in the Government Research Centre, etc., but that the Agency and projects have a solid and general well-being in the public because developing cooperation is not a political project, it is not a political decision, left, up, or down, about making and going on developing cooperation. It is a project that has developed widely in politics, a part of international ideologies of reducing world variability and increasing world happiness. In general, the public has great support and will to do so. The support, I'm not saying, of course, is based on the confidence that the institutions that have these matters to be trusted, that their work is transparent and well supported, that the monitoring of the operation is sufficient, that it is certain that the funds - let's just admit it, money is usually always possible to make good use of somewhere else, that is, sort of, all the use of money - i.e. A general body trust that funds are handled well, that professional work is done, and that all these exercises will be helpful. Such trust is vital. When general peace is lost in politics, administration and so on. The nature of these issues, and it's perfectly natural in the 2009 General's study report, that the public scratch their heads and wonder; yes, yes, it's all fine, but there's nothing to tell me that this is a good job. Since trust must be important, it must be important to try not to disrupt the peace that has been involved in developing cooperation, that must be said at the present time, about the development of a research organization since it was established by the mikill Ólafur of Olafsson of 1981, if I recall correctly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u157	Madam President. Thank you. A fine speech for a senator. I'd like to tear tore only what he said here about trust in society's institutions. I can say that the lack of confidence in society's institutions is a matter of concern as to how careful management, both of the executives, but also here at the General Assembly, can cause the lack of confidence in society's institutions. There is concern for democracies that must have a firm place in basic institutions, for otherwise we cannot guarantee that the democratic community will function as well as it should. I agree with that. A senator is identified as a workaholic and as their links to trust. It's a group of evolutionists. A senator's concern is how we spend money away from our eyes of the northern seas. In most cases, we can observe how the government's funds are spent in our community, but here we are spending some money away from us, and it is very important that it is being handled well. Hv. A senator mentioned the trust that has been in the work of the Development Society so far, and I want to ask in the light of the special situation - which is actually about correcting a certain discrimination based on history, the discrimination based on the exploiting of the Western powers in certain parts of the world, which makes it possible for a state to be organized into the world's poorest states while the same western powers take their place in a group of the richest state - whether he thinks it would also require a special care in how we deal with the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. To answer that question, a senator must agree with her final statement that it is certainly of great importance - and perhaps because of the nature of the project in particular - how the case is handled and how it is handled. History is the development teamwork and the affairs of developing cooperation, particularly to correct and address the consequences of colonial policy and all kinds of profitonization related to, slave trade, etc. who has destroyed communities here and there in the world. Developing cooperation and long - range cooperation can come from another source, and our wealth in the seas is especially due to our happiness with our natural position. Other countries and communities live in great trouble because of their failure to carry nature, drought, etc. We all know from the discussion just in these last days that location in the United States can have a powerful impact on the peaceful or warlike conditions in that area. There is a high probability that in the coming years and decades, there will be a greater need for assistance, cooperation between rich and poor, lucky areas, and so on. Because of natural or otherwise devastating circumstances, but necessarily the historical. When this cooperation is promoted, it is important that the Kingdom be reconciled, and we say a covenant, both parties, give and accept. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u159	Mr. President. This is what makes you so angry about this matter, it's not about our different view of how we handle matters here in the landstones, it's just often about handing, like driving. A senator crossed. It's not only about the history, the exploiting of the Western powers in developing countries, it's also about handouts. The countries that are at risk of water, out of global warming - if global warming exceeds one and a half degrees Fahrenheit [0.5 ° C.], a number of island countries go under the water. There are many poorer countries that will find it very difficult to cope with climate change. Climate change, also brought about by the pollution of the Western powers. Landing - but still, no matter how much responsibility we look, it always ends here in our part of the world. Hence, it makes a person so angry to listen to the present political points that he cannot afford to spend decent money on development, that we are too poor to increase our contribution to development work. Unfortunately, we cannot live in a developing teamwork program adopted here at the General Assembly, and unfortunately, we cannot even measure up to the greatest development policy. Minister of State introduced himself here in June. We cannot give more attention to these poor nations, who still have to bear the consequences of our course that we have supported in our international cooperation with other Western nations, even though we personally, who are here today, may not be responsible for that. It is this fundamental question that is so important, and this case is just one of the overall visions of this more comprehensive part of development. Sadly, the big part does not even seem to want to face the responsibilities we have as a successful nation, which has made the least of it possible for us to find where we are in the world and with whom we have organized ourselves. [[The president calls.]] It would be wishful if it were. The members of the administrative committee would be interested in discussing this matter so that we could hear their view of this responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u160	A respectable president. I thank you for your powerful counter, and I'll say yes. I have often declared that I am slow to anger and irritability, but if there's something that really does the person here who stands angry and frustrated and even confused, it's this attitude toward evolutionary cooperation, these projects that should be so self-centered to us who live with good fortune, enjoy better interests, better possibilities, etc. ... butourbrothers. I want to look a little different, I think, but what. A senator's exact way we talk about this good luck, or this is what we should call it superior, rich, or whatever, and responsible for the problems of those who are less fortunate. I don't think it's so simple that it's a question about us lucky, us responsible, us historically responsible, or what, and then the other victims of the same thing, because after all, this is a question about the only world on which we all live together. A climate crisis, whether by industry or by volcanic eruptions or by means of space, is a common problem for all on earth, it will bite in areas, and therefore matter that we are all in the same boat. We expect, when a car crash to happen, all of us run to where a mitten can lead to help. That's the princely finger I think it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u161	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér for a good speech. In his speech, he considered the nature of the development teamwork and how it is being carried out. Many of us here have been arguing that this two - sided cooperation in the Ministry of State is not a good thing to do. I wanted to ask the senator who is on the State Department if something was considered on the basis of the Ministry how this activity would be maintained. Will special employees be responsible? Now, in foreign service, people who are primarily responsible for their role in the interests of Iceland are employed. That's the nature of foreign service. Of course, it is in international relations in which we accept responsibilities and have to show responsibility and such responsibilities. It is just as the senator was so well - versed, about a different type of activity. This is where we offer expertise in developing matters, we have people who have expertise to care for these matters. This is different from being with people in the field who are taking care of Iceland's interests. I wanted to ask the senator if there was anything about how it feels to think that we're going to have long - term development cooperation. What I'm afraid of and I've heard in my discussion is that now we're going to look at developing cooperation, which is just as well as to look at Iceland's interests, which I disagree completely that I should be the goal of developing cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It has to be said, as it is, that this point has made me feel uncomfortable in the discussion but as far as we can see and what has been said when the question has been asked, there are no significant changes to be expected. For example, it is assumed that all employees, apart from perhaps the director who is now vague, maintain their jobs, and that the foundation will not be altered. Of course, the State Department officials are hired to work under a paradigm of prowess other than the Ministry Department, where the bases are around the world, and they work under a so-called transport obligation to move between work stations around the world. There is a measure of danger that I am concerned about, especially in such a small system as here, which has been identified as the work of the Ministry and the development institutions, and that is the formation of transport duties, and it has become a wisdom leakage of experts and professionals in the developing community that have suddenly developed entirely different jobs and vice versa. This is what you're worried about, especially in such a small system as ours. Likewise, my real obsession, although I don't want any subtly and evil plans there, is that by setting up or putting closer to that function, you will be concerned more about Icelandic interests, commercial interests, political interests when using machines for development support than you have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u163	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I have to agree with him. I think it's too awkward to stick with. In fact, the report on staff matters says that workers should be granted comparable terms, but now workers will increase in developing cooperation, and therefore they will not be guaranteed to receive the same work as before. In other words, changes in the services of the Ministry have so far been expected to be involved in developing cooperation. It is reported that the members of Congress will be offered a job in the Ministry according to events involving transport duties in the foreign service under the above laws. What that means is, I don't know, it's probably those who are already abroad in the part of the Agency's work that's going to have this transport duty. Then you wonder: " Is Malawi one year, and Washington the next? And how to Build Up? Is not there a danger of a leak of wisdom? This is one of those examples. When you look into this, you see, it's not a chance to further the development of Iceland's Development Research Institute, it's gonna change it. This will reduce the factors that involve the traditional development teamwork, though there are many other factors in the development community that are designed to help with the structure of infectures, including Regarding health care and education and school. These experts are being converted into genetics, such as those currently employed in the foreign service, which is good to keep things in order but not in developing cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u164	A respectable president. This is a little vague, and let us account that we do not necessarily have to suggest that major changes exist. At any rate, this has not been reported to us in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it may well be not intended to make major changes. But that certainly is, in view of the wording in the bill, the possibility of changing that is mine does not know of the good. It says that the Agency's name is a developing cohesion agency and that we talk about developing cooperation. Not so long ago, at least this senator here remembers it well, when he always discussed these matters as development aid and from the thought that the rich nation who knows all goes and helps the poor and knows less. It's out - of - date thinking, the thought is always developing more and more in cooperation and into the ideogens of them without them, or whether we're not ours without us, or if we don't, we don't. that there are locals who live in, control, and are familiar with the communities that are being helped or cooperated with that assess the need and even do the work with special professionals. It seems that to work in this situation, especially in countries and cools, which are completely different from ours, you need a lot of expertise and experience. It's very dangerous, I say, especially for such a small country as for us, a small society where we don't have endless experts in all matters, if there's a risk of a leak of wisdom, or because the right person is in the wrong place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u165	V.E.G. President. In this matter that causes so much controversy at the General Assembly, I intend to continue reviewing the reports that have come. I had previously discussed reviews that came from employees. I also went over and read a review from the Developmental Cooperation Institute where an order from a minister said, "I've decided to hide a group of workers." The task force was to carry out this task, but there was no possibility of it. I had started when my first talk finished reviewing the comments of the Red Cross. I'm going to continue to do so now, and I'm going to try to get into the reviews of the European Union of Iceland, which has not been discussed in the Committee. I am amazed and critical, and I am part of my criticism of these river scripts and flubraking on the committee to rip them out almost every day and a half without going over and explaining the comments that have been made. The Red Cross, for example, makes comments to six or seven articles of the bill and even offers suggestions, as is often done, and many do. Not only do they criticize but they also point out better things and how to put things into practice. That's how the reviews are supposed to be. That's the point. All the members of the panel committees who put up with that great work deserve to follow it if they wish or if members of the Parliament wish to go through it and show respect for their great work by reviewing it. This is not done by tearing out a case one and a half days after the deadline is over, or 24 hours. The Red Cross makes quite a few comments that I have considered. I think I've already considered their comments to Article 1. and had arrived at 2nd pars. Concerning it, the Red Cross in its review, by permission of a president, says: The cross strongly emphasizes the failure of the founder of the European Development Agency and the issues of development teamwork. It will be emphasized to foster workers in a way that ensures that their experience and expertise will not be lost but will be used in the continuing and important contribution of Iceland to development cooperation. There is no guarantee that when an institution is put down and the employees resign, as the government has agreed to do and has been observed in their first bill following this approval, i.e. Together with the Merological Research Institute and the Fishing Agency, and then offering a job, in this case at the State Department. I still remind you that the bill of the Marine Research Institute and Fishing Organization was very harsh to employees, but the majority of the committees saw no other way than to bring changes in the rights of employees, that they were not lost, that knowledge was not lost, and that certain things were kept in place. In this regard, I will continue to remind you that there is no guarantee that employees will take advantage of their reward rights. It can vary depending on when a person was hired and in what class he is in. It may cost a lot of money, which I criticize, not to mention a single word from the Ministry of finance. About Section 4. says the Red Cross, by permission of a president: ▪ The cross does not comment on the committee's tasks or its orders, but it is concerned that the committee will not accept the task they are given unless it is guaranteed that the committee is meeting enough. The minimum number of meetings may be listed in the Regulation or in the activities of the Committee itself. It might help you to understand more clearly what the results of the committee are supposed to be. Comments on the article have an important concern that the committee has at its working time the possibility of taking a field trip to monitor the implementation of Iceland's international development team. If the Red Cross is unrealistic, it would be so big that a committee would go on a field trip to monitor projects, which would make such expensive trips difficult and difficult to justify such costs. A respectable president. This is a group of 15 people who are expected here on the bill to be able to take a trip to see how we're doing. Nor is this expected in the financial review of the bill. Can be critical of that too. So it can be said of the two points I have already mentioned, a possible remuneration right to the Committee and this trip, that there is no doubt an additional cost. Around 6. says the Red Cross: As above and in general remarks, Iceland's contribution to international development is relatively low. Suggested Red Cross: Changes to 2 mg are suggested. Section 6. that they may be as follows: In the government policy on international development cooperation, a strategy for achieving the target of 0.7% of the nation's income by means of clear, targeted timing should be set out. Similarly, the proposed rate of forwarding to global development cooperation by terms of national income and how they should be divided on the basis of Iceland's strategy for developing cooperation. In this regard, may I remind you what the chairman of the government economistsary group said when it was published by cuts. It specifically said that contributions to development would be cut down. It's only natural that the Red Cross is worried about this like all of us. Section 12. is about changing the law of the Icelandic Peace Guard and its involvement in international peacekeeping, No. 73/2007, with subsequent changes. Concerning it, the Red Cross, with permission of a president, says: ▪ Notes are not made on input 12 g. The bill. However, the attention of the State Department is brought to the fact that 3 mg is no longer to be found. 1st par. current law on the National Peace Guard and its participation in international activities. Standard 3 mg. 1st par. it is as follows: The task of the European Peace Guard must never conflict with the terms of humanitarian and human rights agreements. Then we will discuss when this occurred, etc. The Red Cross says: ▪ In the opinion of the Red Cross, it is reasonable to assume that civil security does not violate international commitments committed by Iceland and that such a law will remain in the law of the Icelandic Peace Guard. It should also take into account the establishment of the United Nations covenant, as expressed in Second Kings. 1st par. track No. 121/2008, Iceland's international development team. Suggested Red Cross: Adding 3mg. Section 12. the bill of this text as follows: The task of the European Peace Guard is to take into account the United Nations General Convention and must never violate the terms of humanitarian and human rights agreements. In conclusion, the Red Cross, among other things, says about 6. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Then the Red Cross wants to attract the attention of the State Committee on page 6. current law on the National Peace Guard and its international participation, although this is not a subject for consideration. The saying is, "Come on, let's go! " - Then it's listed. ▪ The Red Cross makes it important for the wording to be sharpened and the first phrase 6. if you say: Section 6. The Icelandic Peace Guards will be subject to the national or national rules committed by Iceland and have the right to the individual. A respectable president. My time is almost over, but I've gone over the notes of the Red Cross. I'd like to ask, for the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir and vice president, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir, are here: were all these items reviewed on October 14 or 15 of the Red Cross? Did the majority of the committee decide not to take any of this into account? Is that all the nonsense the Red Cross made? Or was it reviewed, and why is it not mentioned? At the end, I'd like to mention the comments of the ASI, which are highly critical and, among other things, are said by the president's permission: It does not say that there is any reason to bring down the development community but, on the contrary, the emphasis is on strengthening the association of YSSI with the Ministry of State. [[The president calls.]] My last words shall be this: This is a bad case to be included in the committee, and to try to create a parapolitic agreement about it if these matters need to be changed rather than to resolve these important issues in the great conflict that embarrass us, and now I'm looking at the Ministerial Class. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u166	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion to any particular amount of what is now, I hope the minister will close it below with an answer. However, I would like to review some points and direct two questions to a minister. We have echoed the words of Our Kingdom Accounting, where it warns about the arrangement that one person across the direction will act on it and monitor it. It has been made clear that the development community is under close supervision. The Agency's transparency is high, let's say, and it's been accepted. I'd like a minister to tell me if he can predict similar information, if it can usually be, in the Ministry. You can't hide that it's usually not like that. We have had examples of the United Nations Peace Guard and School of Peace, but of course, there is no record of a measure of success. You worry for a reason. I'd also like to ask the Minister about World Light. It is a professional magazine that has been operated by the Developmental Network or by the staff there, extremely extensive. I'd like confirmation if it stays with people. Does it fit into the ministry as thought? We know it's not that it's going to be completely unchanged. It is not realistic to suggest that the function, when it enters the Ministry, remains the same. I hope the field projects will be the same, but it's not quite clear either, so I think it's very important that we get to know. I would be very upset, for a professional discussion of evolution at all, if this magazine, the Worldlight magazine, were not to be published. It would also be good to find answers to many other questions that have been presented here but that have not been answered. I'm glad that the conclusion is in it, that I understand, i.e. that the matter should return to committees and these suggestions that the lesser part has suggested will be discussed at the least and the opinion quoted. The person who spoke before me, among other things, quoted from the Red Cross that I learned to get involved with them. There are words first, and therefore, I rejoice to find out who the final outcome will be. I'm not necessarily sure we're turning a minister, I'm not so optimistic, but let me try to be that, in the light of the matters that have been traced here, where it has been shown that we have succeeded, a government and a government position, either side of the board we've sat on, to file a case in the long run to make peace. I want to know these two things, especially with the information, the reviews and other things, in the light of the examples I mentioned earlier, and then I want to know what happens to the professional magazine Worldlight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u167	A respectable president. I answered questions earlier tonight, and nothing new has been added except these two questions from now on. Senator. I've actually, at least once, if not twice, been reviewing the checks made. For one thing, I mentioned tonight that the United Nations University is being investigated. Of course, the Ministry itself and a project that we are members of in the international field are subject to assessments and such. The senator and others do not have to worry about the fact that there will be a different or less - than today's surveillance and evaluations. Results are measured as appropriate and when needed. Like the TSSI, the Ministry has long experience in developing cooperation. For introductions, of course, I assume that, otherwise it has not been discussed, that there will continue to be an introduction to the work of the Ministry, whether it is development cooperation or otherwise. Whether things are going to be exactly what they are today, I can't in itself say about the end, I think that's a very special question in the big context. It is very important to continue sharing the fine results that have been achieved in developing cooperation. Of course, we must, like others mentioned, do so. The Ministry tells of a lot of things being done, e.g. On international development teamwork and everything. A senator does not have to worry that the good works being done will be less reported.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-25-40.u168	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. When a minister says that I do not have to worry about the lack of supervision as it is finally taking place in the United Nations School, we need to keep in mind that the past shows that we need to be concerned. The recruitment process is different from the independent organisations, and it is not unusual for the independent party to take action. The agreements established by the Development Organization have been overcrowded and revised, as a minister knows, over a period of years; a project has taken out and reviewed it. This may be what the Watch Tower Society's criticism is about, that it has not been used within counsel. That's what I'm asking you about. I think it matters whether World Lights live or not. It is a professional magazine based on grounds other than information advice. That's what I was asking about. We can say that it is independent of the executives, the information presented there, and the gathering. I don't think it's anything but a ministry tip.
