ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u1	V.E.G. President. In recent years, the number of tourists in Iceland has increased dramatically. Not long ago, they divided several hundred thousand, but they are now on another million - about 1,100 thousand when they are taken together by ship and by flight. It's a lot of people, and we're reading about it in the papers, and we hear it say on the bright light that because of this, Iceland's emergency has developed. It's too deep here. It is true, for example, that the rush of tourists in many sensitive places is very great; there are a large number of tourists in the Þingu, for example, when a cruise ship is at the docks and it is not pleasant to see this ancient place, but perhaps it is not easy to do. The same is true of Gold Falls and Geys, which are often fast order, but talking about what a crisis seems to be too deep in the previous years, and people have been responding in recent years. In the past, an effort was made to take progressive steps in this regard. When visiting Icelandic tourist attractions, the most popular places, such as. By Gold Falls, you can see that there have been good steps there. A great change has occurred a few years ago. I guess I visited the Gestapo ten, twenty times last year -- and never paid. [[Up top, never paid.]] Though much of that man was there, there was no emergency. That's all the more words I think I am. On the other hand, I have the deepest sympathy for landowners who have the authority of their own delicate natural spheres, which are multitasked by tourists, and they have not been able to create adequate circumstances for them, such as a toilet stand or something else. They have the law of the law to limit traffic over their land if it causes damage, under law, but they have not wanted to go out on that path. This is where I think the state and we as a community have to step in, but for that, of course, we need money. The question, then, is this: If there has not been an emergency caused by the growth of tourists in Iceland, it may be that an emergency has been created in our minds by those who want to walk on new paths and make natural bulbs in their estates selling goods, making them money money - free from law? I have a feeling that this is so, and I am sorry for how far the government has been working with these lawbreakers, which last summer had money from people and made strange groups in order to have money from people without some improvement. It's still happening at the Kern in Grimnes, where there's an illegal fee under the jagged flag of the Icelandic republic. I don't know how many crowns there are at any time. It is done in a small shed, which is a natural horrors of the environment in this beautiful place. It stands in a parking lot made by the State of Vega at the time, and inside it, Ker's so - called owners have placed in the hands of individuals, fine people, assigned to the terrible role of having money from people. The EEA has declared that this is not a law, and I have often wondered that the police are not doing anything. If we walk out of the house and the police are on the East Field, and she sees that some person is walking in on us and taking away our money or our property, isn't it likely to do something? Does she not go and try to capture the thief and return it to us that was stolen from us? Why is this not done to the Ker of Grimnes? Why wasn't this done in the Precinct? As far as I can remember. A minister has improved better, saying that the jars were doing just fine, just fine in the Kernan, that the lawlessness was going well. Only back to this alleged emergency. According to Iceland's Habitat sources, the income of foreign tourists produces 275 billion nationally, 275 billion that we receive into the Icelandic population in this way. If we're going to watch a tax system change that's been done when the government finally made it a step to raise the value tax of tourism from 7% to 11% along with a number of other factors, that makes 8.8 billion more into the box, so that money is there. We here discuss how to collect them in such a way that it is reasonable, and without taking our most sacred basic human rights, they are having and enjoying Icelandic nature together, regardless of the so - called private rights. It is sad to live here with a government that has been willing to take on this right, as it is true, for it did nothing in the summer when the tax collectors went ahead. As far as I can see, this is where the warrant is being established for the fall, that's what they're doing, and that's the most serious thing about this bill. V.E.G. A minister has repeatedly pointed out that in the past governments, such clearance has been legalized. Consider, though, the setting of what was then being done. It was a law that places that the use of nature protection could be approved by some kind of agreement, that some sort of approval might be taken. However, this would always have to happen in agreement with the environmental authorities and under a special contract and never for profit. That's clearly in the law. So let's not confuse these two. This bill holds the following, so I'll quote that under the permission of a president: ▪ The individual who has reached 18 years of age will be able to make natural passes for the price of paying him to visit a tourist resort in Iceland that is part of a natural pass, cr. 4. gt.st............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What about the others? What about the Ker if it doesn't come into this Špilla, the highest? Minister? What about those who don't want to go under that hat? Do they continue to have authority to do so? Is that the idea? I have a suspicion that this is the case, and I conclude from the minister's inaction. and the government, the declarations made in the summer despite the inequities of currency and wording in this bill. V.E.G. President. I think, with all due respect for the highest. Minister, that this is one of the strangest bill reported at the council. Why is that strange? Of course, because of the fact that almost everyone involved is opposed to the bill, almost all are responsible. I wasn't there for the talk before the weekend, I'm sorry, but I didn't hear any better than the highest. A minister would have said that now it was the council to take this controversial mismanagement to treat and discuss and make some new cocktail that could be accepted by men. When you put up this raw material, I'm afraid of the results from that mixture, I will. Travel services and tourists in the tourism industry have presented simple ways. They have pointed out, for example, that we do what other nations are doing. Right away. paritaprevir The midnight Guðbjartur of Hannesson goes to Rome to check into a hotel where he pays for the stay. He does the same thing in Berlin, he does it in Strasbourg, he does it in many parts of the United States. The Gistint account is one of the ways in which the board of travel services has shown that we are going ashore. Second, there's a return fee for the country. There are ways to go. I rather agree to the host's fee, simply because I think it can be accessed through the jungle of European regulations, which is an arrangement that is widely known so that I am most inclined to do so myself. But what's important to me is that if we're going to raise money for travel, we're going to do it in a general way, in a general taxation rather than a more specific form, based on our paying a price for our own nature. And the natural process of all this is so fairy tales that I don't know where it really ends. And I don't know what they're saying in Heimdal or the Union of young independence who have opposed such taxation and nose control. But basically, I think this case is about whether we're going to disappear from centuries ago tradition, from the beginning of Iceland, that all of us who live this country, are supposed to have it together, and the natural bulbs that are there to be unafraid, or whether it should be the same thing that has happened in the marine economy, that certain authorities should be allowed to make you money. I believe this is one of the most fateful issues that the Council has to deal with these days, far more crucial than any change that we strongly debate about the arrangement of taxation that I think is of great importance to us in the course of righteousness. But here we are dealing with basics that are likely to last for a long time if this evil deed is to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u2	A respectable president. Well, I wasn't expecting any of us to have sex. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson would agree in this matter, yet I would like us to approach each other. We must not lose sight of what we're doing here, and I think we share the opinion that the matter is about defending Iceland, we can agree on that. I came up here mostly to make a comment on a few things. I don't think things are going to work out that we're exaggerating, like a dog. A senator made that there are really some people trying to create some emergency to find an opportunity to make money. I think we should keep the discussion on a higher level than that. It is only necessary to travel far and wide throughout the country to see that the country needs to be treated. We haven't done what we should. It can be blamed, but it doesn't mean we're not coming near in that way. We need to respond and make sure that nature, to which we truly share affection, does not suffer any further harm. That is the subject, and we will stick to it. No private authority is being established in this case, as is the case at the cost of the stay. Among other people, a senator helped to establish a government's last days. The legal language in this area was not addressed, i.e. Whether privates are authorized to sell access to their country. There we find two of the most important rights of our citizens: i.e. the right of property protected by a constitution and the public rights protected by various laws. [[The president calls.]] It is not settled now, and it was not settled when it was. A senator was a minister, and he had the opportunity to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u3	V.E.G. President. I have to say what I think is true and right. This bill is not to defend the country but to defend its landowners. A situation is being created that makes it possible. It is said that it is considered acceptable to charge. The Agency does not think so. I thought it only had to lock a child to read nature protection laws and see black on whites that it is forbidden. It is permitted under narrow, certain circumstances, and with certain conditions, rather than public pay, it is not permitted. The payout in Kernina is illegal. Now I want to ask the highest. Minister, if he digs me with respect to coming up here and I thank you for that: the owners of a country where natural bulbs are found and will not hear under the natural pass, they will be authorized to act as already done by the highest order. Minister if these laws were to come true? How's the top? A minister of that matter? Finally, I want to stress that it's illegal, as it is now, that's illegal. Only reading the law does it. I encourage the people of the country to read nature protection Act, I think it's in the 18th floor. to which it is clear that this kind of payment is prohibited, illegal, as the EEA concluded. However, it takes some members of the council and the government to interpret this clear rule in some other way, and that is natural sadness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u4	A respectable president. I've got to feel bad. A senator by informing him that the EEA as well as it is today is not a court of law. The EEA cannot judge or prohibit something. There are courts to do so, and these differ. What happens to private sources when the natural pass comes to be by law? It will be exactly the same as it is now. Privates will not be forbidden to collect fees for these laws or laws for the host's fees or any other means that we have to collect a fee to help build up. However, this bill is an incentive for a private driver to come with us for this project against their own failure. I think it's a better way to go. And because of what? When a senator quotes nature protection law, I encourage the people of the country. A senator to read 32. which is called Gadgeta, O.C., which allows overseers to take charge of the exact price to fight the damage to nature. [[The president calls.]] That's the goal of this bill. [[The president calls.]] A similar provision is found in separate national parks and in the regulations for travel. [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. A senator to study them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u5	The president reminds us that there is only one minute left to answer or face in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u6	V.E.G. President. I've studied these laws and the law as the highest. As a minister, I turned to publicity here. The Agency must be agreed with, and it is not permitted to do this for a profit, that is clear. But this is where the highest power came from. Minister out of a remarkable and frightening statement. The natural pass is not to be changed against the lawbreakers of the Ker, Fallifos, the school pass, the Leirnians. These laws of nature have nothing to do with them. What they will do, if they succeed, is to secure the authority for landowners in order to make the Icelandic shark money, and it's sad. [[Up front.]] That's never gonna work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson gave a heartfelt talk for his fine speech. He took full note of what is the essence of this matter, an aspect that has been far too far away from the discussion, at the very least, to the point that the matter was addressed here for discussion. True, it had come up several times. He said that he seemed to have this bill, in effect, been putting the Commission's blessing on the possession of nature drivers in private property, as it were. A senator expressed it, making money. That's what he thought was against the public court. I agree with him about that. That caught my attention at the very height. A minister came here and said, as she has said several times in the last few days, that the matter was undisputed, and that this bill didn't matter about it. That is why I want to remember it before it is too late. In view of the events at Geys, where the matter was still under discussion, there was a member of the council. A senator was now highly recommended. Then, on the basis of at least two of the government's spokesmen, it was made clear that at the time of that bill, these issues would be settled once and for all. It's time to go to the top. Minister to state the matter is settled. I don't think it's fake. I think that's where she should take a closer look at what she has said. If you go to the Department of Industrial Affairs website and read information there, for example, there are questions and answers. When asked whether the natural pass prevents the hire of a private member at individual tourist attractions, the answer is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ No, individual landowners can still, in the power of their property rights, charge the deposit in their places. In other words, the highest. A minister is blessing it, and not just that, but she gives special attention to it. [[The president calls.]] Hv. So a senator is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u8	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for this important historical review. It is true that at the time, it was discussed by government spokesmen that matters would be accomplished by means of a legal bill that would be proposed for the council. So they thought that with this natural pass, they were to drive all possible currency to Icelandic spheres underneath one and the same hat. But now it turns out that this court is in charge of currency and that landowners are still going to get a chance to charge people. This will happen after the members of the Governing Body decide that this war is against the law. In fact, I did not have to wait for their decision; I simply sat over the law and read it. I learned to read at five or six years of age, and it is not difficult to conclude that this is a crime. But the law can change, and this government can change the laws of the land, but it cannot change them to the point that it has the public rights laid down in a constitution and all the principles on which we have based our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u9	Mr. President. We had this hard discussion a few times last year. For example, I recall a discussion related to September's budget on these matters. At that time, after the summer, there were roses in the community when the people were very unhappy that they were paying a fee to the Gestapo. Then it was said to be completely clear more than once that when a so - called currency bill arrived at the council, this case would be settled. But if that was settled, that is how it is. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson said earlier, it's been established. In the past, this was thought to be the case in a gray area, but now it is the highest. Ministers made a clear statement, written and written statement from here from the General's symposium that it is all right for those who have natural bulbs to exploit them in this way. V.E.G. A minister has already blessed that the public court is, at least, severely impaired. [[The president calls.]] And that's the most serious thing about this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to share the accents on the motions of what's-her-name. Skarphéðinsson We'd rather listen to the public rights of the Grey Sea than to the exclusive rights of the Supreme Court. The current travel minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for a fine speech. In 1995 there was trouble. A senator at the council and signed an oath to the Constitution. It's 72. Gr., and it has remained unchanged, saying: "The right of honor is holy. No one should be obliged to give up his property unless the need for public action is necessary. Needs a law order and a full price for that to happen. This isn't a so-called possession right. This is a special property, not called. He is just unambiguous, and this is the constitution, and the Constitution is superior to other laws, including Grey Eyes. So this should be valid for number one, two and three, no matter what. A senator will agree with it or not. This is what counts. Then there's some debate as to whether landowners can collect, I'm not taking any position on it. Senator. I'm not gonna judge that case like that. Senator. We have courts to judge. Hv. A senator would like to look to the host's fee. Well, it doesn't make an enormous amount of money. It's just too little to make. It's too low. Yet, it is only at half a bedside, i.e. the part which is legal and given up, not the part that is not given up and will not be. The problem with hosting fees is that it can affect whether a person comes to Iceland, if there's too much room service. The same is true of the coming fee. It is on the international level, and the population of Iceland is on a large scale, and it is very unfair for those who intend to examine nature. I want to ask you why. A senator, for his speech did not say: " Does he have any other ideas? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u12	V.E.G. President. I was now pointing to various tax returns, pointing out that the increase in the value of taxes now or the lower steps brought up an $8 billion each year. There are various ways in which the government has developed some ideas rejected by the government and the administrative body. We know all of this. With regard to the Constitution and the private rights, that's why. A senator's firmness in his mind, but he also points out that there may be a gap between interpretations of the laws and the constitutions as well. This may vary between human rights and personal rights. I was suggesting that the public rights and human rights we live in in this country are fundamental to me. I have also often pointed to this in discussions about the Constitution and the right of property that I do not put together if I want to go into such interpretations, rights of possession in a home, or 200 thousand billion that some claim to have been able to obtain and interpret under the private property that may be a great tool for how they have acquired. Well, it's not like this. It's not that cut and cut. She's not. Here we are divided into groups and armies to see whether to respect the public rights of Iceland as he has developed since the yearday, or whether we're going to follow the ideas that we're about to demand from landowners who want to make themselves money. I don't think this transition is just between government and government, so far away, because a lot of people in this community, far and wide, agree with what I'm saying, even though they're not in politics. So this transition isn't like this. [[The president calls.]] This bill is happy that my sentence is not great. When it comes to our country, people want to hold on to old public rights and public rights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u13	Mr. President. 72. g. The Constitution isn't about private rights, it's all about property in general and it's immunity. It's got a why. A senator signed it with an oath, and I'm hoping it will mean it. He said that he did not bring any fees other than the bedside fee and the return fee, etc., but also suggested that we use tax money in general, i.e. tax on the Icelanders, to provide for a situation that is mainly because of foreigners. [[Up front.]] Travelers make a lot of money, but they still need a lot of money. We pay huge interest on government funds, so we can't afford it, in my opinion, to use other financial resources to pay off these trips. So I can only see another way. I'm told by a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u14	V.E.G. President. I want to pray. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. It's a shame not to put words in my mouth. I had no suggestions for doing so. I mentioned some options. I told you what would be the best way to go, the best way to stay. I also pointed out other options, but I completely opposed the groundwork here. With regard to the exclusive rights of men who can understand nothing but talk under such advantages, let's just make it a matter that we as a nation, as a community, own the bulbs of nature. Though individuals may possess the land they can find, the right to enjoy it, to watch The Wall, to enjoy Gehenna, and Struffs, and to Gold Falls, and to Fallos, is the right to possess, if any. The senator can't understand any other terms than this, he's ours, and he's not gonna be taken away from us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u15	V.E.G. President. We here discuss a bill on natural passes, a case that has created an enormous discussion in the country, and a case that is already causing serious trouble for those who take it at the council, both for the discussion that has taken place here in the public and for the community. There is no disagreement on what is presented here that we need to respond to the increased flow of tourism. We have about a million visitors a year. This means increasing pressures on the most popular places in the country that require improvement in the situation so that nature will not be destroyed or destroyed. I agree with what has been presented in the preceding discussion that there is no need to talk about this as an emergency. Local descriptions of red areas, so to speak, have been made by the EEA. People have responded, but it is obvious that all of us want to be better equipped to serve the people who come here, to do good to them, and to extend good service to them and to all who are walking in the land. One of the things that also concern us, and we need to think, is that the pressures are very much in individual places and little in other places where there are tremendously beautiful bulbs. Of course, there is concern that, so to speak, we have not been able to distribute tourists in the country and have them spread their ministry more widely in the country. It is interesting that we are here discussing reimbursement of an article that has grown immensely and has become one of the pillars, one of the provisions of the country's economy. I sometimes feel like there's no income involved here, or as it has just happened before. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndalur, who spoke of a valuable tax paid by foreigners here as a tax from the Icelanders. We earn a lot of money from this article. That is why we are also stressing the use of our country, culture, and history to attract to us people who pay for their services, purchases of services, etc. This is interesting and has been made clear in the discussion from more than one of the reasons we are discussing a particular price, that is, to examine the matter directly. When I say it, it's the same for the same reasons as why. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson mentioned earlier. Aren't we risking setting an example that the people in this country can charge almost every square inch of it, knowing that we're going against the National Code? We've circled the country, and many Icelandic spheres are on countries defined as private property. Will we accept that these areas will be shut off and that the money will be used in some way by those with whom it belongs? V.E.G. Secretary says no. How will he avoid this bill? I'm throwing this up as a speculation because I have to honestly say that I have a lot of questions about whether it may be that we are taking the same step that was taken when we made the money, that we cancel the right to use and the authority to exploit a country to a particular party which means an increase in the value of property, ready from nothing with the rights and rights to make money. Is that what we are seeking? Is that possible? It's a question, but it's not a statement, but I can totally see that this can happen. You may be able to say, as do unnamed members of the world at the time when people see the money coming into existence in ocean resources. Then we're stuck with that system. They have been distributed more and less money to the same parties and are granted permanent rights to the resources that I think the current government seems to me. I don't support that idea. I want us to hold on to this public right, the ideologies that have been and, in fact, are much more than here, that the public can go through the shores of the country. It is forbidden to turn them off and close them, even if they are owned by private property, unless it is used by due to a duel or any of these things; it should not be done without permission, but by wild nature. Is this really what people are gonna give up? My answer is clear. I can't imagine we'll lose control of this. Immediately, when it came to the matter, the entire private sector was overlooked. This involves more and less, as we noted here. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son and what. paritaprevir All that is left of Skarphéðinn the son of Skarphéðinsson. We may have this bill, giving the right to go to reimburse anything. Then the public rights have disappeared. Humans can quote a constitution, but let us look at who the prax has been for centuries. Don't take part in changing it just with this bill. Do men want charges? Of course, there have been a number of methods. One method appeared when we were having trouble restoring our community. That's when we talked about the merit tax. Initially, the Icelandic Crown's gang is getting stronger and it takes a lot to come to Iceland, the stream of tourists is low. Then the cost tax dropped from 14% to 7%, taking it to the bottom level. When the dollar dropped by about half, you decided to take the opportunity and go back to your old job. What happened? The government's situation at that time, existing government groups, fought with their mouths and paws, and with great inconsistency against that increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u16	Add it up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u17	It was not a matter of worth taxation at the time, initially the tax was 14%. It is amazing, too, that with all the computer technology, all the follow-up, everything we've learned, it's always more complicated and complex to hold on to things, but it's not like that. There's no problem with having any other steps. On the other hand, we knew that at a time when men had a merit tax of this service for 7%, they had to pay for travel services because of the differences between the top and the lowest. This has taken up the current government and acknowledged that it was a mistake not to accept it at the time, but it went up to 11%. That's when traveling people make a lot of money. That's good. I think it is necessary that it be involved in just the other business in the country at the cost of running the job. Other ways mentioned are the host's fee. There was a great deal of opposition in his day, but they agreed to pay a very low price. That low price returns $2,250,300 million. K. every year. Consider this in the context of what the current government puts in reforms at tourist attractions this year, which is 145 million in terms of this bill and how it is. It's all the emergency that's due to be solved. And think the tourist pass will have paid this year - they must come to money in a certain area regardless of this bill. True, I must say that if I went to Rome, I would have to pay for a bedside fee. I've been to Madrid, and there's a bedside fee. We're paying the annual fees around the world. Here's some excellent ideas that the price may vary according to the size of the bed, i.e. They paid less in camps, inns and so forth than in five stars hotels. All of this, of course, might be considered. Since then, the charges have been discussed. I don't buy that we can't have our comes in foreign travel to Iceland. They say, you have to pay a coming fee in the domestic flight. It has been suggested that there are already remunerations, and then the question is, Is it not sufficient for what is needed to meet the need for equality? Third, when it comes to this issue, people have pointed to it in many places as to whether there is no legal right to be a taxpayer in the country and to pay in general for the service of those who come and enjoy a short time. I feel that I have not had satisfying answers to that question. People who have often tried to defend themselves against foreigners should consider the matter a little further and see if it is possible to do so. So it's a lot of opinions that this bill doesn't answer. Of course, all our hard work and efforts and respect for the need for something to do about the matter from all political parties to the conclusion that there has been a loss of negotiations with stakeholders and people involved in this matter. There has been a gap, and a minister remains with the suggestion in opposition to the article. That in itself makes me sad because we need to find a solution in common, whether it is going through the tax in general or in the presence of a check or a return fee if possible. I reiterate what I opened up my talk: " Let me think about this to the end. What do we want with regard to our authority as to where we can walk? Can I go to the top of the mountain? Do I have to ask a landowner permission to go to the top of the mountain? We don't have any answers in this bill. We cannot answer the question of places to go. V.E.G. The minister has said in interviews that this will be only 10 to 12 locations. What places? It doesn't say. Also, what is going to be elsewhere has not been dealt with. It is also talking about how this is to be done. The effort has been made to do this electronically so that it can be confirmed by using a telephone or in other electronic ways that one has paid for it. At the same time, there should be some who will be there even if there is only one status value in this bill. Some natural passes will go through the country and take care of it. What is their position? They're not policemen. What happens if they refuse to talk to the person, just say, "I don't talk to you, I don't see who you are. You have no right to stop me. - How, then, are we going to fine as we assume? If they don't pay in the first place, how will they sort it? Now it's not a big amount, I'm going to say it, but it's an extra amount. This is typical of what I think has characterized this government, as in the case of the former independent tribes and the forwarding parties. You compliment yourself on paying taxes, but you earn the same income by paying the same money. What's the difference? True, some people have a religion that if you pay for something, it's better than paying for it in general. Better be if it slips into the private pocket because they may be able to manage the money better. It is religion that we live in. The pursuit hangs on to these religions by the Independence Party. That's what I'm afraid of. I disagree completely with this ideologies. I trust to pay my dues, and I trust to participate in paying for Icelandic nature. I suppose foreigners who come here will pay for it in some way, as I have mentioned, whether in the case of a stay or a return fee, but we should not have to sit down with the conclusion that the land will be more and less closed and used by those who own the territory. It's not what I want for Iceland. I have not personally been a spokesman for the National Services and I do not believe that people should be taken away, but we should clearly define the public court. The interpretation of the Lawgiver's interpretation would have to be perfunctory in which countries should be open and which regulations should be applied. This has been in the protection laws of nature, and it was also defined in the new protection laws, which were actually delayed and discussed in the council. Let us consider the regulations about who can use the land, where and how clearly and then make the payoffs come without changing that ideologies. I'm afraid this experiment with the natural pass is doomed to fail. It requires that the matter be reused and that a solidarity be sought in what way to do so. I think the matter should be answered to the council and to the committee, which is about the benefit of tourism. Where's your income? Who will pay? How much money do the foreigners pay? What will be the multiple effect on the system? Of course, we also have to work against the black economy. Does it mean, then, that this billion has something other than the benefits of tourism? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u18	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine speech. He spoke of holding rights and public rights shrimping on. Now I'm not aware that there are any court cases going directly on it, that, for example, Kern's owners may collect rights of use by Kern, but I expect such judicial cases to come up in the near future and then, of course, because we are now sitting on the legislation, we trust the courts that are the third power in society to decide whether or not. So this is about the property rights and the public rights, which is actually not that I know of in the constitution, the public court is not in the constitution. Perhaps that is where he should live, in the opinion of many. Hv. A senator spoke of a new step and that existing governmental groups have stepped forward from that point forward. This was a new step, 14% in travel service, and a place to stay. I strongly disagreed because I envisioned an even more complex level in the non-employable value tax, I think that policy is in general now trying to simplify the tax system in order to prevent abuse. But as for landowners to start collecting, I'd like to remind them that it costs a lot to collect that kind of money. It costs people to work, shifts 24 hours a day more and less, or at least from the early morning until late at night, and it costs a lot. It may well be that a person prefers to use the resources of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u19	V.E.G. President. The last word is what it's about. A senator, that it may well be that landowners want to take advantage of this, is not enough for me. You see, I want to control this whole thing with the solutions we're finding about nature passes or some other solution in terms of payment, maintenance and renewal at tourist destinations. Of course, the amount of access to the relevant parties may vary, but it may also be possible to simply close certain areas that have not so far justified unless one is protecting in some way cultivated land or livestock or something like that. I'm just warning you about this bill because they're creating that crash. I believe that in the bill, the rights of property are being defined over the public rights. By doing so, the lawgiver has given his interpretation of it. That's how it works with me. I may be wrong, but I don't think we should express ourselves about what we want and wait for courts. We were just supposed to have an opinion. We were supposed to have put this into a constitution a long time ago, i.e. the right to common use of land, but it's natural like other things not allowed in the constitution. It has gone very wrong in spite of the nation's great will and the sincere will of the one standing here and of my party, for example, to enter the Constitution of resources. It has not been successful and has often been a word - playing challenge. Contrary to what we're saying here, I'm telling you exactly that a conflict between property rights and public rights has to be prevented by ensuring the public rights and the countries still own countries and being able to use them for other purposes without selling access to natural bulbs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u20	Madam President. The right of ownership is now in the constitution, which is why. Every senator has sworn by his signature, but not by the public court. He's in the Grey River, he's in various laws that are in the lower order than the constitution. The Constitution is the greatest of all. And it doesn't matter if you think it's boring and like having it any other way, it's like this, that the right of property is in 72 C.E. The constitution and its immunity under the Constitution. A person may have differing views about whether it is better to have it differently. Then there is a suggestion to change the constitution, that is a process. It takes two Congress. In fact, it is now possible to vote, in this terms, actually, only, otherwise two Congresss will need to accept changes in the constitution, and I will challenge that. A senator is to bring them into such a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u21	V.E.G. President. I can point to the fact that there is a comprehensive proposal for a new constitution and that it would have been nice to hear from it. A member of Congress why he did not support it. One was addressed, but she was not finished, unfortunately. There's this kind of surrender and subjugation that you don't have the guts to have an opinion, and then you say, "Who do you want? Hv. A senator is saying that he wants his ownership past the public court. That's what it's all about. [[Up front.]] I'm saying the other way around, I'd like to quote Greyhaws, older songs and rights, and say, "It's a strong factor that we don't have to cancel it. That's what this is all about. We may, then, need to make arrangements in a way that makes it possible for us not to be on the property rights, i.e. However, we're not going to go to the public court, we give them messages instead of hiding here and saying, "It could happen in court, etc. This has also been the case with people who have spoken of the food, perhaps going to court, but it has never been there. Maybe it's time. If we're going to face the fact that everything is private property, we'd be tenants in our own country, then it's not a vision I share with my head. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u22	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting discussion. We agree on that, me and what. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson, that it might be beginning some sort of dinner campaign on Iceland's natural bulbs. And it was interesting when we heard it. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Farms, here in a symposium, paints a clear picture or clear lines, borders between property rights and public rights. He doesn't give much for the public rights, he's only in the grays and over a thousand years' history of Iceland, but that's the right to possess property in the Constitution of the country. Now, 1st C.E. The fishing laws that the sea resources are all of us. Then there were steps, exactly the same as they are being stepped here, and individuals were given the authority to exploit the sea resources. Then, gradually, it is created in many people as a matter of tradition. Former Professor Líndal came forward when we were going to raise the resource price in his day and said it was against the exclusive rights. There may be a beginning of evolution, which would be appropriate to compare to the floundering of sea forces. paritaprevir In his excellent speech, Gudevian Guðbjartur of Hannesson made his decision. Is it his opinion, I ask in this counter, that here are drawing up very clear lines in the politics, between those who want to protect the public rights and the rest of the people who control the exclusive rights and then the right to exploit Iceland's natural spheres?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u23	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it may be that there's a clearer line coming up in politics, and I think it's important that people express themselves on public rights and the exclusive court. True, I have the feeling that if you try, there will be no more money for the exclusive court to be held before the public court, I don't believe that, compared with the 63 members of the council I know, e.g. The media take this step to the full, and not all independents, but, I hope not. I think we should send a very clear message. But I used to wonder about the eating process because we know how the value came about, how it was established, and exactly as it did. paritaprevir Jónasson's count became what was originally a license, the right to use the resources that belonged to the nation, and everywhere it was legalized that the nation owned the resource, and it was not originally allowed to be handed over or anything, and suddenly it became a private right. All of a sudden, it has become a matter of opinion whether these will be accepted and given in other ways. Doesn't this worry you? Is that all I'm saying? What about the milkcane, access of the recruits to the environment when they move from the countryside, sell the salathan, and others who can't afford to buy it and live on Earth? Was that the idea of the system originally? They were making plans, that's why they set a dinner, they were making sure nature was safe, all good goals. But the result is that it's more and less private property, is it? We may be able to deal with this in the waterway, and perhaps solve it with the dairy spiders, for it is so demand that it is far beyond the available sources, but it is not automatically distributed to those with milk products, as is done in the fishing field.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u24	V.E.G. President. That's what I'm talking about. A senator will agree that if this bill becomes a law, it will be taken a very important step? Why fateful? Yes, because this may be the case, or may not be, the rights of property that were not once present. That's exactly what happened in the eater system. However, it was not the intention of many of those who approved the quota system in the form we know to permanently confirm the exclusive rights of the resource. There were very few who did not intend to do so by means of a bill. The time will then pass, and there will be certain developments that will establish their rights. Now I don't see this as my private right, but there are many who are starting to interpret it in those ways. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that danger also present in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u25	V.E.G. President. Yes, I must admit that I feel that there is a danger, i.e. that we are taking a crucial step that could cause us to define the right to use in such a way that we can be sold access to our private nature bulbs. Some people think it's okay. I'm against this myself, and I believe we're supposed to keep in this common right, joint property of the country, common use of the country, but at the same time it's very important that we all agree on the goals set by nature, going out to correct tourism, ensuring safety at tourist locations, improving the environment so that we can cope with the pressures of increasing tourism. That's not what differences are about. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson for an excellent speech. Hv. A senator pondered a number of questions, including the public rights, and there he entered the economic impact, linked to the private use of the resources, as I could clearly understand. A senator. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is referring to Article 4. The bill that says, by permission of the President: ▪ Parental places owned by non-public sources can apply for involvement in natural rights.◯ That's what I'm talking about. A senator discussing this aspect of this article? Actually, there was an opinion. The senator of this section is just as good as we're concerned. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bömmar and Ögmundur Jónasson. We, me and what. A senator, however, agrees that the construction, protection, and protection of nature and valuable tourist areas and the use of natural spheres are urgent. Hv. One senator noted that although the natural pass would be a law, it would not be enough to complete the usefulness and maintenance of this year, even though we have the balance that I heard was due. A senator speaks for the most. If that wasn't enough today, which way would he want to go? Wants to play. A senator raises that price?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u27	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, I'm just looking to 4. that refer to a person's involvement. The bill applies exclusively to the state and can be understood to allow agreements to automatically submit to this arrangement, although it does not indicate that it has been approved by the rural communities, which are an independent administrative level. We're going to put a law on it, but we're not going to do it to privates. My disappointment is that it doesn't cover the whole thing. If I've understood the highest. A minister is correct, with great respect for the sole rights of the Constitution. V.E.G. One minister put it this way: There are certain views, which are the civil rights and the rights of property, and therefore the exclusive right to innovation. I don't doubt that it's the conflict involved, but I'll get back to it, "What kind of message do we want to give? How do we want to see this? Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson probably enjoys going to nature like me, and I don't think either of us wants more and less of an area, so people say, "You don't get to come in unless you pay a price. You can pay for it at your next stop, similar to the fish waters in some places, but we'll leave you the right to fine you or to drive you away if you get to these areas without a pass. Do we want the whole of Iceland to be that way? Did we realize what natural spheres are underneath there? I don't want to see it that way. That's why I'm discussing this matter here. You know, about the amount. However, I pointed out that the host's fee and the low price on which it was paid yields us $2,250,300 million. K. Although not nearly everything at the tourist resort, it was also in the law, only 3/5 go to the tourist resort, for the fee was also thought to be a solution to our problems after the collapse. We would have been in good hands to let it all flow to tourist facilities, but that is not so that more is being made available this year. I'm worried about that, but in the future, the cost of stay may be higher or may be otherwise distributed locally. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with good and clear answers. He answered the question about the Evening Meal, which, of course, is the key to the demand effect. In terms of prices, the delicateness of this price, and the increase in its demand. It's hard to appreciate. I want to come to another way. In his talk, there was some question. A senator's return fees felt that this way was unpublished and that there was insufficient evidence that it could not be done that way. How can you tell? A member of the United States for the record of responding to its influence on domestic flights?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u29	V.E.G. President. The demand effect can be discussed at all times, and in itself we can also wonder if it would not have been normal because of the rapid growth of tourists in times when we tried to adjust the demand slightly. We can't build everything, we don't know how long one million tourists will be coming here every year, it can be one and a half million, as this figures out. Will it last? Iceland is no longer at the top of the ten-list of the most sought-after countries this year. With what long - term result? We're going to do something that we don't know exactly what will bring us back, without me going to paint some dark side of this case, because a million aren't very much in the tourist world. But as for the domestic flight, I mentioned that there are expenses from the internal flight that some have suggested might be useful and change in this relationship. Your flight will be reimbursed to see if you can obtain a price on your flight. [[The president calls.]] All of this is essential to consider more than... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u30	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm having a hard time making plans for a pre-existing natural pass bill, but at the same time it's not said there are some positive things about the bill. I agree with the bill's objective that it is necessary for the government funds to make more money to protect Iceland's nature because of increasing traffic around the country and to contribute to the security of the people who are on the move. So I agreed that the bill would be submitted to the council, but I am impressed that they would receive careful coverage. I expect a lot of stakeholders to send in envelopes. The employment committee, who are expected to bring the bill into account, became involved in the benefits and shortcomings of all the ways mentioned as possible to reach their goals. So I have full faith that the bill can be processed and improved in the treatment of the council. Another thing I agree with is the National Institute of Safety for tourists discussed in Article 5. The bill. I find this a very positive and important step, and I wondered, " Is the role of the Governing Body primarily involved in projects directly related to the distribution of funds?'Or is it intended for a more extensive role? I think it is important to take advantage of this opportunity if such advice is such as covering more and better defined tasks than you can read from the bill on security plans. The elements related to the bill are in my mind primarily the earnings and the terms of the bill violate the public court. With the income, I'm not convinced that nature pass is the best way to go. Granted, it has been reasoned that tourism does not bring taxes to society, in line with its increased scope and increased pressures on nature and infrastructure. So there are definitely improvements in government revenues in this area, but is it absolutely necessary to find new ways to earn money or be able to make better use of the available routes, such as improving the worth of tax recovery and improving the tax stock, or with more efficient implementation of the host tax? The steps were taken to reduce the collection of worthwhile extra taxes for tourism at the end of the year and to further work on the current level. I believe that the tax environment of tourism can be improved so that both will be more efficient and more reasonable. If the result of a better outcome is to go to the currency as proposed by the natural pass, then the question is, Is the natural pass the only way or if there are due due due due to arrived and exorbitant costs? As I came to this point, I believe it is very important that the employment board carefully reviews these advantages and makes it clear to the council that benefits and weaknesses are involved. If there'll be a new route, i.e. If a reimbursement is made, I feel that there is a further need for further review of the use of collected institutions and existing monitoring systems. At the same time we want to simplify the system and unite institutions, I feel that it is important that we look for all ways to collect a new fee into a system of subsidies already known as collections for new ways of government fines and new avenues to lawsuits at risk of expanding. For monitoring, I think it is important not to create a new surveillance system, but to see if the existing systems can be used. We are now working on a simple surveillance program, which includes the combined traffic surveillance of police work. If extra travel control needs to be done, I would appreciate to see if this surveillance could fit in with landkeeping, thus supporting the work of the landkeepers and education at the same time with the deposit, and at the same time, I would be able to make better use of the funds. Then it's the public court. In the bill and its report, I don't think that I have enough evidence to show that the creation of the natural pass does not function in the public court. In particular, I'm snooping around the 4th floor. which I find open to be an account at tourist locations, owned by private citizens, and, at worst, even contributing to such collections. What does it mean to form the following paragraph from Article 4. The bill, by permission of the President? It is forbidden to take an additional account of the destinations involved in environmental rights. However, the authority or employer's authority's permission to charge a fee for a designated tourist service is not limited.• In my mind, this paragraph, as it is there, can simply support the legal basis for such collections of private members and their potential to limit land traffic in private. In the case of natural passes, there are also some solutions. Two. The bill takes into account that those who have homes or work in such places do not need natural passes. I think it's a problem that we're going to have to put in a law right away. Then there are others who are employed for the sake of their work who may have to visit tourist stations. Do the instructions go beyond what is being done? Do you care whether you are employed in a travel service or something else? What about students and scientists who do research at tourist locations? Do they need a natural pass? What about those who travel by land, but who don't do business directly at the tourist stand? Do these people need to be recognized? Where is this limit? It is all very small in itself, but sometimes it is good to reflect on the details in order to get the overall picture. Indeed, the natural pass and the other subsidies discussed in the collections have been their own faults. Sometimes the defects can be removed by going to a solution-centered job: Giinteight tax, return tax, exodus, New Zealand way, more efficient value tax system, natural pass. Could any of these pathways be mixed together, thus achieving an acceptable result? It has been noted that the host tax does not return and that in certain territories, there is little or no place to stay. For quite a while, I have heard a lot of criticism that overnight registration should only be made in accommodations that are open for the entire year. It makes it difficult to monitor the trend, and some may even want to argue that since registration is released, there is a lack of incentive to pass taxes on overnight taxes, since it is not listed in reports. Can they be added? Could there be a gradual change of host tax or other means of searching? In recent years the debate of currency to support tourism and to contribute to the security of those traveling through the country has clouded a considerable further discussion of the construction of services that would normally be paid for, such as toilet parking, parking lots, and so on. In many cases, there is a need for increased services for tourists, and in many cases it is a service that would be acceptable to pay for it. The discussion may need to be discussed, not at the same time, but not at the same time. The problem of heavy traffic over the country is not new, and it is not necessarily linked to the growing number of tourists that have taken place in recent years. The problem, however, is more obvious and more visible than it was ten, fifteen, or twenty years ago. They'll have to respond. It is also not always a direct link between the number of tourists and the natural hazards. Few places are often as damaged as the polydiverss. Something is very important that we do not forget in this discussion. Finally, although I have hoped to the highest. The minister of travel, the Ragnhenður Elín Árnadóttir, gave me a bill that would be more pleasing to me than the natural pass bill I'd like to commend the Minister for its approach to the matter, i.e. to be open to change and to have followed up with open introduction meetings all over the country. I think this is important, and I really hope that approach will lead to good results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u31	Madam President. In time, though, I realized that I am in spite of all the progress I have made deep within my heart. To a large extent, I agreed with this talk. I thought it was a very clear speech and perfunctory subject. Concernings and comments. A senator made myself available to all of mine. When she pondered over her understanding and the right of a special court for 4 mg. The bill is the exact same stumbling block as when I read the bill. Other minor comments she made made helped me to reason deeply. This is exactly the same thing I fired at and possibly more. As a result, this bill simply does not prepare well enough. That's what I'm talking about. I completely agree with the primary objective of my life. A senator and after the incident. A minister has, which is trying to solve the problems we face. We agree that we need to make some kind of money to build tourist spots and protect our country. In fact, I think it takes more and more to pay attention to various peace - filled areas, such as rough territory. A senator said. The question is, How do we do this? That is why I agree with what I felt to be quite healthy doubts. A senator on how the bill fits into the public rights and is naturally completely incompatible with the facts. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Vengal has said here today, I come to that later in my own speech, but it seems as if I also felt that he was speaking. A senator says there is a way. For example, it is the host's fee. It's the top of the conservancy. Ministers picking up are very simple in the bill, they're not really there or what. A senator felt that I would come up with a solution. [[The president calls.]] So it's not just that. A senator and Mrs. President, that we all agree to try to circumvent the problems of the host's fees, uplift it according to incident, and may also take the reconstituted way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u32	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Yes, I think that's exactly what it is. A senator, and the exact way a minister has provided, we agree to find a suitable way. I would not be unlikely to have a result of anything mixed with the knowledge I have at the bill now and at the work that has taken place before, but of course, you never know in advance where the work is leading us. I'd love to, because I have a place to say. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, to get a better view of him in just these humble places or less remote places. In what ways can the damage to nature be prevented? There are not necessarily places where view windows will be built or if there are tree pits or such footpaths, these are unique places on the West, places in the highlands, or other places where vegetation is very delicate, perhaps just moss. How can we approach that problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u33	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister has no choice but to say that it is open to change because it is just my opinion that the bill is extremely unlikely to pass through the council to its private core. I think it's acting on members of Congress, and that's clearly the view in the community, that people don't want to touch this public right beyond what's already happened and that, for example, they became here with the 1999 change in nature protection laws. That was a very controversial change for those who included some limitations, though not much. We don't want to. In some ways, however, we would like to join the minister in finding ways to raise the money. This is not the way, in my opinion, and it sounds to me. Also, because it simply limits the rights we have enjoyed since the centuries of tradition and that the Icelanders consider very valuable. It is the right to make use of and eat without necessarily violating the 75th requirement. The constitution. That's what I think now, and that's why I agree. A senator and grateful her just saying it out, i.e. Some kind of mixed way. There are three, four ways to look at. Hv. A senator traced them all, actually feeling that she would take one out of parentheses, but that is a way I'd rather look at, too. Hv. A senator then asks me, " How can we protect these ignorant places? ' There are a few of the areas that are extremely sensitive. Hv. A senator named moss. If a moss is trampled down, it may take a century to correct it. There is no other way than to set up a situation of some kind, e.g. A hygienic position, that is important, takes steps and tries to control traffic, thus damaging the land as little as possible. In some cases, areas that now lie under damage are not going to be able to save. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u34	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for the speech. That's exactly what I noticed. A senator pondered in his language a series of questions that are nothing like the questions that have been raised in my mind when I've been digging into it and looking at the bill. There are a few things I would like to ask. A senator was a little more specific about the fact that I found her review, especially with regard to 2kr. The bill, as well as four. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. I'd like to ask you what. A senator when she tells the result of a mixed or mixed route, whether within the sample, some type of altered variation of nature passes, as we would have some sort of payment at public tourist locations, or whether it was totally referring to other means, such as a stayover fee, only to clarify it. And then it's just what it is. A senator counts from the discrepancies she listed in his case, in effect, the answer to the other question is: Count back. A senator that this bill can be fixed up, or do we need to start from the top, not entirely based, but to think it over again in a completely different way than it does here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u35	A respectable president. I thank you for the leader. When I discussed the reconstituted process, I was not ruling out some form of nature. However, I find it very important to explain how he can fit in with the public rights as I entered it and feel very important that he does not walk on it. It's just as if I know that with a committee coverage it's gonna be better how this project can really be done as I said at the beginning of my speech, it's very difficult to imagine, I'm sorry, President, if I quit, the prarkish export. I believe that this bill can be worked on, that it really sounds like everyone who's taken it, no matter how critical they may be, agrees with the main objective, and that's why I believe that it can be done by the bill that it can be achieved by good reconciliation, both in society and here in Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u36	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdóna's study for answers and agree with her that I'm also concerned about this practitioner with just one status value. To me, this doesn't quite work out, but there's another thing I just want to come on into my second answer. A review from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs reports that there is no total government policy on which places the State and rural society should build up as tourist attractions and that we are waiting for a planned bill from the highest level. Environment and resource minister. How can you tell? A senator? We're starting a little on the wrong end, aren't we? If we hadn't had to have this bill, we'd have to know which steps to take. A minister sees himself entering the future? So I speak for myself here, I feel like I'm going in the wrong direction, and I'm taking steps into blindness, and in the future, it's going to be more clearly defined by another bill from another of the highest standards. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u37	A respectable president. Now, it is usually so on a project that somewhere you need to start, and not always can be started at the beginning of all things, if you can say so, but I believe that this will be explained at the time when the bill is being discussed here at the council. On the other hand, I've taken a little bit of this into my mind that the senator came up with regarding the definition of tourist positions. For example, I've wondered, " What places would it be in the East where it fell to begin with? ' Could we face, for example, a number of cruise vessels and many passengers traveling around the East without coming to one of those places? Could we face the possibility of passengers traveling around the country seeking only places that did not require any natural pass? True, there are questions in the air, but questions are for answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u38	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a bill here for a law on natural passes at the highest level. The minister of travel, Ragnhedður Árnadóttir the Yearnad, has submitted. I'm glad that this bill has come to the council and is being discussed. A good discussion is always good, especially in this matter, where it is very important to reach the desired goal, and it will be presented in paragraph 1. The bill. It says, by permission of the president: The aim of these laws is to promote the protection of Iceland's nature through needed structure, maintenance and protection of tourist facilities as well as the support of tourism issues. About this first part of Article 1. The bill is not divided. This has been very good during the discussion, and it may be said that everyone agrees on their goals, but the best possible route is controversial and at worst, it is not perfect. V.E.G. The minister of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir has been very careful with the key elements of the bill, its contents, the pros and cons and other possible means, and in fact, opening up criticism and speculations and the possibility that we will achieve the means of achieving the goal of the bill together. It's the big movie that many people have. This bill is the subject of Congress, and it has been made clear that everyone agrees on it. The application of this ideologies is controversial, and it may be most important to draw it out, but it will be informative to compare the criticisms that have been presented in the discussion with the reports that will be received when the matter is being handled. A professional health committee. If we look at the bill itself a little further, we will find that in order to build up, supply, and protect, it takes more than 1 billion years to finance urgent projects and in many places the urgency of starting. I appreciate that this amount has to be associated with the nature and scope of the industry. Tourism is a special profession in that it is intertwined with a number of other occupations. The innovations in tourism are mainly the result of such overlaps with other sectors, to form the agriculture, the fishing grounds, and the commercial and cultural fishing industry, to name something. In this way, the transport system is actually larger than the size of a travel service company, e.g. in the form of a number of jobs or any criteria we choose to set for the job, which is sometimes referred to as a direct or indirect economic impact The tourist who comes home for Iceland leaves behind his income. He trades with the various companies, which to this end are in part for tourism companies. When the tourist goes to a grocery store, is that a travel service company? Yeah. When the tourist shops at that store, we define it in part as a travel service company, if we rely on international definitions. The same is true of the swimming pools, public transportation, restaurants, clothing shops and other stores and the trades and service companies that the tourist shops for. It has been pointed out in the discussion that there is a valuable tax that runs into a government fund. Therefore, there is good evidence to support the indirect tax system for building and maintaining in tourist areas. But I don't think that's wise. The running of government funds is sensitive and it is urgent to go into construction and maintenance of our major natural bodies, and I'm not sure that it would be helpful in this priority and competition for funding. But the core of the product or service that makes up the personal service or product that the tourist is looking for, and he needs to buy if the journey to the destination is to take place, the journey to the country, the transport meal, the food, the recreation, these are so - called nuclear factors in the product and service that we really look at when talking about travel. A lot of them. Parliamentaries and media have discussed the traveller's experience. It comes to mind when I review the text I wrote before this talk that an excellent scholar described a service so that it was nothing that we lost. That's how I think it's going to have the experience, and it might account in part for the misunderstanding we're dealing with when we're dealing with a process of making money for building and maintenance. Undeniably, the question arises: Will nature pass affect that image, the experience, the product we are selling? And what effect does it have on our own experience that has this glory that nature is almost at the doorpost? Will this arrangement, this way, a natural pass, change how the tourist feels about nature? A cashier will be in my mind to rhyme with the service of the currency, so that the traveller's experience will not change, nor will it seem to be as attractive or more attractive than before. A policy guide is available there. I looked for a vision of such a future, among other things, in a 2011 travel program, 2011 /2020, based on a 2011 synonym. For example, it says that 2020 is a business service to become an important industry, focusing on Iceland's special status as its destination for cooperation, that is, business, rural society, and State responsibilities, building, innovation, and product development. Here's the basic concept of speciality and cooperation. This sector, composed of a number of different sectors, is defined as being totally dependent on the whole of marketing and management, control that the different people come together and work together, and in this respect make peace in the way that it takes to build up the products we are offering. State of the highest. A minister in this context is quite rigid. On the contrary to the estimates presented in this policy, the Minister has not received a clear message, not from tourism stakeholders, which way works best with the products we are selling or that we are selling, at best it has been a message to a minister on which way travel services are not pleased. Yet, as shown in the report on the bill, the first step was to consult, calling for a similar way that is offered in this bill, or as shown on page. 6 on the bill, by permission of the President: ▪ At the 2013 headquarters meeting, the traveling agency concluded that they were ready to converse with the government on the version of nature passes for funding in the construction of tourist attractions and reductions or the deduction of other specific taxes for tourism. There is likely to be a reference not to eliminate the host tax, that is a requirement for tourism stakeholder and is expected in Article 10. on page 24. 3 of the bill, which says that host tax laws should be canceled on September 1, 2016. V.E.G. Now, the minister has put the case in the suit it's in here, and he's inspired for a meeting campaign and a presentation together, and thus opened the discussion and ideas in order to complete the big image I came into at the beginning, finish this case and get all parties to the table which is necessary, as I crossed the river, because of the nature of the industry, put out a complete image, or like the highest level. During the discussion, a minister himself made a suggestion that may be developed and managed. I look at 1st. that we are taking a very important step in doing so. In fact, the comparative report of the Iceland Office shows that Iceland is far behind the controls in terms of tourism analysis, and I think the first official policy was here in 1996. Since then, there has been an ever - increasing number of foreign tourists in the country. The report reports that it is mainly the lack of identifying the target population, the tourist, the key market, and the spending pattern. I think it's important. There's a visa on the product, the experience, the core service, what's he thinking about the tourist, how does he value the product, the destination of Iceland, with all his advantages and gender? We need to take a closer look at the effect that this bill, the natural pass, has on the product we're selling. According to a travel agency poll by MMR, 80% of those who return to their country are back because of nature, and this is reported on the bill. Tourists often say that the most attractive thing in Iceland is to experience the quietness and unmoved nature. The same is true of the native tourists, those who travel through the country. We appreciate the greatest experience in the face of natural disasters. Could it be that the surveillance and parking system on the bill could affect the traveller's experience and what he really wants or values most in his experience? We need to think about it and answer if it is possible. I admit I'm doubtful about all the resources involved in this process, a new network to collect, the management around it, the metabolic level, the definition of where to charge and where not, where to do this, the challenge created by the surveillance involved, and that it could, in the context of which I went overrun with the product, potentially harming the product and survival of the target group. This can also be illustrated by the criticism presented in the paragraphs of the bill and in the individual articles, from Article 2. The bill to 1 1. I'm leaving the 5th floor there. Since I'm very into what's involved in a visitor's security strategy, I'm up for it. This, however, is reflected in the increased writing skills, regulations, and costs at the same time. If this is to work and succeed, surveillance and even strict adherence to the guilty and regulations, registrations and lists should be performed. A travel agency has some form of a collection agency. It's a question of whether or not the budget that is limited to 3.5% of the stores that go into the business will be effective and that'll be okay in the bill of financial and economic reviews. All of this, of course, has left this bill a positive side. V.E.G. A minister has noted that here those who are being used are paying off, and it has also been shown that nature is not sensitive to the price change, as is possible for other factors. I adhered to the existing systems and taxes in advance, but I still believe that after the comments that will happen. The job committee will be able to settle matters at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u39	Madam President. I've come to realize that there will be no problem for us sitting at the High Council to achieve a united solution in this matter. After I've listened to the pillars that have been given here by the parish members today, I'm determined that there's a considerable harmony between them and many who've expressed themselves both here at the council and also outside the council, so I'm sure we'll be able to land. I completely agree with that as it is. A senator called the big film and declared me ready to participate in a solution to this matter. I completely agree with that as it is. A senator spoke of the complexity of the procedure, as well as the development of the regulations that may result from other regulations but directly towards the self - repairer. Hv. At the end of his good speech, a senator said, at least, that he should go on a so - called mixed way to obtain the money needed to build up tourist locations. I think most, and possibly Ministers now, she wasn't at the beginning, are ready to look at it. I've said I'm ready to take a look at the reconstituted route. But, hey. A senator also said that there are systems in use that have worked - I understood that he was referring to the hosting tax system. However, they did not return the amount of money mentioned here. It can be fixed. She's a sister. In fact, a senator came here earlier today with excellent ideas on how to exchange such a price. I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Does he not believe that the most successful solution in this matter lies in the process of implementing the host's fee and scraping it off? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the question. It was clear and simple, turning toward the cost of lodging. There is a system that was at first costly, but it has been replaced. The question is, Should we not continue with a lodge fee and skim the possible bait? I know about them. I've heard in the books that complain about this price, that it might be higher, and as for what turns to reimburse the merit tax, they know how it comes out in the carts, and that makes the governor too. I think the most important thing for the product we're discussing here and the implementation of the means required for the development and maintenance of transport in long term and acutely - an urgent reason for the growth of tourists - is the demand effect for single aspects of the core services, i.e. Your stay, your flight, your transport. There have been reports of redundant charges. The reconstituted route will force them in lower fees that would help to limit the demand, incubator fees, return fees, even the cost of driving. V.E.G. Minister has spoken of ten, twelve spheres of nature. It might be possible to make some sort of export of the pass, and then I think it would spread on all the products' services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u41	Madam President. Yes, it is true that the Minister speaks of ten or twelve natural bulbs, but that is not the case with the Ministry of finance. As shown in the case of what? A senator, he's read the bill and the report completely. He then knows that the budget manager's comments indicate that the monitoring on the bill is not enough because those who held a pen or struck a computer speak about hundreds of places. Is that even closer? As we have seen today, you can't just pick out 10 or 12 places. I wonder if these sought-after tourist attractions are as numerous as there are at least a few Icelanders. Each one in his own favorite place. I agree with what. A senator to find out the best ways to do research. He is absolutely correct in saying that the cost of stay was a childhood problem. I don't know any better than they've been beaten. V.E.G. The minister speaks in a paper with his bill primarily about two minor failings. True, in her introduction, she added that it was quiet, especially for new tourism companies, but there was no other lack of logic. I'm saying I don't know the last loss of a bed, but I was near the scene, but I think it's been a while. I think that by raising it and perhaps adjusting it according to what was said by a friend's companion. A senator who spoke here today and by taking in another one, such as the parking lot, which he could pay. The senator discussed, as well as taking a fee for the use of hygienic facilities, which is urgent, I think it's just that I'm sure - I think these two things do much more than cover the amount of the highest. A minister likes to attend in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much. paritaprevir Acquires the Össur of Skarphéðinsson and his inquiry. I agree with what. A senator to see that the natural opera in Iceland contains a number of favorite places. V.E.G. Minister will be right, but there may be ten, twelve places where the word is extremely urgent. [[Up front.]] We can still find hidden pearls on the edge of the city and the neighborhood. We have a similar view about the reconstituted route, and the reason for this in my mind is that the core aspects of the product are important. The large, strong tourism companies that are behind the product should unite in making the money needed to build up and maintain the natural bulbs that are already the most important factor in the ministry. It's also true that the bill says that the Department of Economics and Economics is not sure that one travel agent will be able to monitor the surveillance. But it may be possible to have the natural pass there as one part of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u43	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill for the law on natural passes. In 1st. The bill says that the objective of this law is to contribute to the protection of Iceland's nature through needed structure, maintenance and protection of tourist facilities, as well as the support of tourism issues. As for these goals, I think that all of us agree more and less with one sitting in here and that there is no difference, therefore. The decision is about how this is suggested, to collect money from a government fund in order to achieve them both by publishing and selling natural passes. Laws aimed at promoting protection, maintenance, and construction of tourist facilities need to be met in my opinion. One way is to ensure that the necessary funds are obtained and that in the most practical and simple way. On the other hand, defending the public rights, i.e. the right to cross the country and, as noted here in our discussion, that we return to the Middle Ages, i.e. to John. The extract we're talking about here with the natural pass doesn't make either one. The public rights are being reduced by the intention of causing the individual who goes through the country to pay to watch and enjoy nature and the land. In his historical history, the highest. Ministers of Ragnheiður, Elín the Árnadóttir, described these as ten, twelve places that she told us all about, and referred to as the Thieves and the Golden Falls. I have to state completely different because there's evidence of which places are at the highest level. A minister refers to, for what really is a tourist location, and who should define or decide what is a tourist location? In fact, the II bill, which is the source of financial and economic reviews, is granted permission by the President: Then there is no global government policy on what local and rural facilities should be built up as tourist attractions in the future, but it is still stated to improve this later with work in the field of legal action on the proposed environmental and resource minister's planned strategy for building up infrastructure for environmentally protected tourists. So, it's all open. The tourist location should be defined after the bill has been approved. Even at the highest. A minister says that these are some of the places we all know, and if it's approved, at least I find it obvious that the public court will be there. Besides that all tourist attractions are owned or cared for by the public, they are automatically involved in the natural rights, as the bill is set up, which further underscores the depth and misappreciative nature of it, as stated in Article 4. the bill that tourism sites are owned by non-publicities can apply for natural rights. Privates can, in effect, be babysitting, but they don't have to. According to this bill, there is nothing that stops them from collecting their own costs of tourists they choose. If the official party, i.e. The State is about to take a price for enjoying the land and what will result from becoming defined as natural bulbs or tourist attractions, why stopping there? Such initiatives on the part of the State to directly collect a fee for the enjoyment of tourist facilities owned or the care of public officials must be encouraging rather than discouraging those who have natural bulbs on their lands to take up their own currency. By the ensuing bill, the example from the state would certainly be set. So I ask: What sort of chaos system are we setting up with such things, and laying a foundation for the kingdom to stumble in one place, and to the other private servants as they please? I can't see that there's anything in this that's stopping them from developing. V.E.G. President. Even if we were to accept this arrangement, i.e. to sell people special access to enjoying the land, would they work and produce the desired results? I also think it's something we have to think about and think about. For example, the bill will achieve the goal set in Article 1. That, i.e. to contribute to the protection of Iceland's nature through the development, maintenance and protection of the needed tourist facilities? In the above chapter II, the review of the Ministry of Economics and Economics, says exactly, by permission of Presidents: In accordance with the Department's information, one of the new facilities at a travel agency is expected to be in place for this and the members will be monitored along with another employee employed by the Agency today. Considering the expected approach of foreign tourists in 2014, it is difficult to see how this plan should ensure credible surveillance in these designated tourist areas that may well be replaced by hundreds of visitors from the European Commission funds for travel to this point. In other words, this does not refer to ten, twelve resorts, such as the highest level of travel. Rather, even a minister makes hundreds of places that could fall under it. The review continues a little later, with the permission of a president: It is difficult to accurately estimate what income of the natural pass will be in years to come, where the number of tourists will be and how well they will pay the bill. There's a figure here to be assumed. So I ask, "Do people feel or why?" In general it is credible, or is being underestimated by the amount of people needed to maintain control so that the system can yield its expected results, and it is thus undercredulating the cost of running the system? In fact, we can create an example that is actually exactly what people are doing and sharing in social media, since, fortunately, there are more than just us who are sitting here wondering about these matters. Happily, there are a lot of people who feel this way and are thinking about it. Here is an example of what people are arguing with them and predicting: Natural rights cost 1,500, the guilt of not having them is 15 of you. K. Suppose 800 people travel through this area each year, how many people have to take a check so that they will earn their pass more than the other one? Suppose 80 thousand people were to be stopped at random or in tithing, yet it could be said that taking the risk was worth it and paying just the fine. [[It's out of the way... dishonest.]] And stopping $80,000 takes a lot of time, even though the only new employee expected by the Ministry would be very busy with coal. During last week's discussions on this subject, it was similar to the highest. Minister of nature passer performing the parking ticket of Laura 256, where drivers can weigh and evaluate whether they will choose to pay the lower amount of a meter or higher in fines if the parking passer takes them out. And it was a good metaphor, I think, because we're here talking about acting in its simplest form. This everyday acting question is well - known from our neighbors, where there are buses and subways with ticket inspectors, some of whom are seen. The rulers of such systems are faced with two ways, having a very powerful and large surveillance system in which there are very large or weaker and smaller systems in which the punishments, fines, the poor, are obtained for the few that are high, and thus the power of subversive forces becomes more subversive. I don't know. I don't know, it doesn't really mean there's gonna be either. In addition, experience with public transport is such that it can be difficult to enforce fines except to the locals who in our case here in Iceland should be in a smaller part of the user's match. So in this context, I find it reasonable to roll it up and ask, because I simply don't know it: How is it already going to collect tickets from people who leave the country? Is it likely that this will simply work out as a system? V.E.G. President. As I said in the beginning of my speech, I don't think there's any conflict between the need to protect Iceland's nature. We all want to protect it and contribute to the construction of tourist facilities, I think we all agree that this is very important to our future. But just as I've traced them, I think nature's the best way to go. In order to reach these goals, the minister of the trade of Ragnheiður was not likely the Árnadóttir of the Elín. First, she walks to the public court, and second, I simply don't believe that she will achieve the goal of earning the money needed to protect and build tourist locations. So my opinion is that it is the right thing for the General to drop completely from this idea and to go further in order to obtain the necessary income. From the fine discussion that has taken place here, I find the best way to consider the board on the host's fee, that it's better to be reformed, and that the fee will be raised. In this regard, we can look forward to a fee that is charged, and remuneration is carried out by countless other European countries, such as winter. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller traced to make a good impression at the beginning of the discussion. Likewise, I feel that there are other methods that might be effective, either at the same time or in addition to the host's fees, and I feel that it is all right to consider whether we should contribute resources to a travel agency, since it is those who use natural resources, natural resources, for profit, and so it is only natural that we find a way of paying them some price for their use in society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u44	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Steinunn Although she had been a little more upbuilding, she had been able to give a fine talk to Þóra Years'Árnadóttir. She noted that the goal was to try to get financial support to improve the damage nature has suffered, and I feel that there is a small lack in this discussion that there is a lack of ideas for it. Hv. A senator went through the expense of a private member of the country because he collected a fee from his country or from a natural state. It's been discussed here before. I'd like to ask you what. Councilman: Is there anything in the bill that changes the rightness of justice that exists today with the right to collect, e.g. of the Kernium or any other private property they have? Is there anything in the bill that changes the sudden appearance of a person to say that there is a better legal standing for those in these places who are protected by the rights of property? Then there is the question. The senator did not answer: How much does a private worker pay, such as by Kerna? How long do people have to stay in a shed to collect? What reward is needed? It's supposed to be shift workers. It's not just a day's work to collect them tourists from time to time, too on weekends. So the collection can become a beast. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. Then she said that people would weigh them to see if they paid 1,500 bucks or not. Hv. A senator does not have much faith in the honesty of ordinary people. You see, it's quite a thing. People like to pay and live up to their rules and standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u45	Madam President. You're right about what you're talking about. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndalur the honesty of people, and most pay what they pay and do not cheat. However, I think it is very important that when the ministry gives the bill that all these possibilities are taken and the roads and the cost. I don't think it's good enough here, there'll be nothing in it, not enough to consider if the fit will really give us money. It is only natural to be counted into the bill, whether this is likely to bring us some income, and whether people will be looking to see if they are paying to cheat. Although people in general are honest, I feel that they are one of the changes to take into account. Regarding the question of whether anyone in the bill will destroy the court's assurance of collecting in tourist areas, no, that's exactly what's left behind. That's one of the things I find shocking, of course, of course, because I'd like to see that trial destroyed, and it's clear that we're going to do other things in the construction of our tourist places and prevent a bad report where different members collect different fees for what.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u46	Madam President. It so happens that the right of property is in the constitution, and the Constitution is superior to other laws. Hv. A senator has like me, and others have it. Since members of Congress have written an oath to the Constitution, the right of property is higher than other laws. It is a court order to judge when it conflicts with other laws. About honesty. When people see they're supposed to pay $1,500. To this end, I can't imagine anyone opposing it. I'd just like to see the foreign tourist who is on the bus to Reykjavík when they say to him: "You'll have to buy tourist passes if you're going to go to these places, refuse to pay 10 bucks or more. I'd like to see it. You see, I think there's gonna be a lot of money, except for the natural disgrace, if someone's been taken and thrown away if they haven't paid $10 or so and had to pay them $100. Let's not forget that honesty is common and my experience in life, Madam President, I've met a lot of people in business, 80% in my opinion with my life is honest people who want to pay their taxes and duties and don't say like other things. Councilmen: I intend to break these laws. 80% is an honest person. It will pay this tax free as soon as it's collected. I assume this is going to be on buses and hotels and other places, and if foreign tourists are going to have to have these passes, they're going to need to look at Iceland's natural beauty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u47	V.E.G. President. Yes, people in general are honest and want to pay their taxes and duties. I can't see, though, why nature's rights should be governed by some other law. Why should professionals, e.g. does not sell overnight travel services to want to be properly and honest with taxes and obligations, e.g. To collect your bedside fees? Is it somehow different from the public or from people who run that service? If we assume that people in general are honest, they must cover all the space, I guess. Regarding the presence of foreigners in paying that price. Now I don't know. I don't think that in a prince's hand it's the wrong approach, so, in part, it doesn't comfort me. On the other hand, I am not sure that the foreigners will be happy when they've already paid the general government fee to pay back in other private places. Then I think if they have to pay a thousand bucks here, 15 hundred calls there, and God knows where it really ends, then I'll be able to gain weight on the edge. As for the constitution, I am one of those who would have liked to see the terms of natural resources in the constitution and therefore feel very sad that it has not been successful at the time to insert such regulations into the constitution. I'm not going to give up all hope that there will be some future, soon, hopefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Steinunn speech for Árnadóttir's aged daughter. Hv. A senator handled the matter very well, especially when he was ill. That's normal. We're gonna go for a second. Councilmen are to review basics with critical minds and eyes. I understood why. A senator, though, would be most concerned with going where there is a way to spend the night's expenses. If we give ourselves an example, so I'll take the question up for an example - although this system exists, there are certainly some discrepancies on this route, such as the one whose bill is facing, a natural pass. Those Icelanders who want to come home for their own land prefer an inexpensive journey, stay in tents, and even spend their summers as it is today. Let's say the family stays for two months, 60 days, that's 6,000 bucks. daily. I give myself, based on the way the host's fee has been developing or returning income to keep up, this is not enough, nor is it consistent with the growth of tourists. If we raise the cost, which we don't know exactly how sensitive the demand is, then the person who wants to vote for the cheap way to pay $12,000. Which then is much greater, and they that take up the land shall dwell in precious lodgings. Has a what? A senator wondered about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u49	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. A senator, I think the host's fee is the way I like it here because it's a system we have in our present form that can fix and edit without bringing a completely new system. Also, I feel that I am recommended by the system that our neighboring nations in Europe seem to be able to use it with excellent results in just different exports. No, I have to admit that I had not wondered exactly about the situation. A senator brought in the family that goes on a very long trip in Iceland, the Icelandic family shops the foreign family that stops here for a short period of time. Just a good question. Of course, we should consider this too. What I can answer here and now without investigating something further into this is that I think that we should look just to have paid for the difference between what sort of lodging is going on, I don't know if we should completely let it go in some places like tent areas, I just don't know how it's going to happen anywhere else. But I'm sure it's all right to examine, i.e. how we make donations differently depending on the type of lodging involved and how expensive and much service is included in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For good answers and answers to my questions, Árnadóttir Yearsondotir's Þóra for her. The gratifying fee is the way in which it exists, but it does not provide the income that is estimated to be needed for the development and maintenance of the future, this billion a year. I think this answer will draw out the misunderstanding that's going on at the same time. There are a number of factors in the natural pass that are less pronounced during the discussion, which also has advantages. I think that this discussion is just as unmistakably and how important it is that we make peace because the cooperation between the different parties behind the ministry is this one product that is being taken and experienced by the tourist is important and how important it is that we be able to land by these means. There is no boundless way in this. The Gistint account is certainly a means of income harvest. See what? A senator realizes that we are going a more mixed route. Can we visualize this natural rights route as part of that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-02-61.u51	Madam President. Sadly, there is no boundless way, and we would often be relieved if we could find only this one faultless way. It's not that good. I think there's a good way to go some kind of reconstituted way. I mentioned as an example that I thought it was okay to consider whether some kind of resource fee should be paid for a travel service company. It's a way I'd be all right to look at. The challenge in some form is another example of how to go. I'm sorry, I don't know her well enough and what limits we put on the commitments we've applied to the European Economic Area in order to have the courage to stop telling me the benefits and defects on it. But just fine, I think it's okay to look at it, too. As for the natural pass, I said in the very beginning of my case that I felt that he had two huge flaws so great that I could not see how to get past them. One thing about the public rights and the other, and I just don't buy it, so you use such informal expressions, that it would give back the money you're supposed to take, even if you were willing to give up the public rights, which I'm not. In my opinion, we need to find a possible reconstituted route, but I don't see the natural pass within the process.
