ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-147.u1	A respectable president. Before the council, there is a big change in motion. Economic and business committees are subject to the right demands to meet requirements after the completion of a deadline. I briefly tore this up in my history for a committee party here yesterday. The reason for this adjustment is that the committee feels that it is important to determine if the requirement will be passed on to the broken and before votes will be paid for a bill to a need-to-treat. So the committee suggested that following 2 g. The bill would be made up of a new article that would be under law on financial companies, a provisional law, and sound as it says on a panel. 1612. For further explanation of this change proposal, I'd like to note that it does not interfere with the sources that have the current right to pay to demands, generals and priorities, in accordance with a labour agreement that has been legally passed by the labour board. This can be done by a contract that takes into account a requirement described on the basis of figures of 118, articles of bankruptcy. Of course, it is the assessment of broken management and of the demands on the extent to which a contract of necessity takes account of the latecompliance described in this way. Of course, when it comes to its evaluation, there are ways to break out of control, e.g. See the court judgment court, which is completely out of the content of the above laws. I just wanted to guess for a further explanation on this change proposal that it is not difficult to find out the sources that split governments have to pay to the general demands. A respectable president. Now that I'm here, there's another thing I'd like to include in order for everything to be done. There is a slight, harmless error in the committee's opinion, in the chapter entitled 1 mgr. F-joints 2. It says, by permission of the president: So, with the confirmation of a financial contract, it officially ends its treatment and the end of broken management. Of course, it is not proper for a breakupal regime to complete its work because of a legal obligation to break out the law despite a contract that has been confirmed. I wanted to find out here so that it's being thought that this has infiltrated the committee's attic without the fact that I think it's necessary to print the committee's opinion again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-147.u2	A respectable president. Because I had no right to be here at 2nd. I'd like to say a few words before it reaches its final payment. It came to me as president of the Economic and Business Committee on March 12, 2012, to move on behalf of more part of the bill to a song that dropped the swellings of banks under the head of currency. It was under enormous interest, and it was important that the matter be granted quickly during the council. So we placed it in the afternoon after the closing of the main markets that day, and during the council, there were great solid solidarities across all groups to drive it through three discussions, to provide variations, and to legalize them that night. Thanks to that. The council reviewed warnings that in the bill as originally indicated, there are retrospective regulations that would not be legal. Four weeks earlier, on February 15, 2012, Iceland's Supreme Court had passed judgment on law No. 151/2010, who came out of the same study, said that they had included inert recovery. Hence, for the Generals, there was good reason to pay attention to such warnings. A small percentage of the possessions, cash that had already been collected in foreign bank accounts, were excluded from the oceans, but all the Icelandic possessions and the majority of foreign possessions were taken under the seas. As a result, the law was completely unconcerned, there was no legal uncertainty about this design, and there were no lawsuits in its case over three years. It has been the basis for the strong position of contracts to be thanked for the success of the tax. I thank my partners, Magnús Norðdahlur, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Björn Valur Gíslason and Skúli Helgason, for their cooperation but also for all the members of the council who made it possible to handle the situation in one evening, despite extremely limited information at that time and the tremendous speed that had to drive the case through at the same time. When considering the comments and positions of individual senators from that time, it is reason to remember that limited information on what was in the bill was and that humans were not fully in a position to determine if the management could be trusted, but it has proved successful. As so often, it was not the messengers of the bill that had a road and a measure of its preparation. These were the staff of Iceland's Secret Bank, the Ministry of finance, and the Generals. I also want to use this opportunity to give them thanks. It is of utmost importance that, as people continue to evaluate the national conditions that need to be out of the law of stable taxes and provide them with a precautionary view for Iceland's national interests. We must be confident that we will. Of course, it would be most successful not to use the tax but to get free of contracts on the final solution to these cases. With the good wishes, I would like to finish my case as soon as I hope that I will never again have to come to force the General Assembly of the Icelanders to establish laws forbidding people to take their money out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-147.u3	Hv. All council members. The work of this legislature is about to end. This convention has been unique. It's with the longest legislatures, starting September 9th. ... andnowisendthisday, July 3rd. Meetings are 147 and 126 meeting days. At that time, members of the Synod committees have held about 600 meetings. Meetings, discussions, and votes have lasted about 830 hours. Compared with our neighboring assembly, this is much more than usual. In general, compared with other councils that are close to us, there is the campaign here in the Hall, and thus the discussion, more than there, and often by other means. On the other hand, the work on committees and elsewhere is in my council. There have been major issues before this council, some of which have been very controversial. On the other hand, this legislature body has done good work in many ways. The agreement between law source and conclusion is similar to the one it has been in the past few years, 105 legislators, and 22 conclusions. This includes large, policy - making issues that have been deeply affected and will have been brought to bear. I suppose, though, that the approval of the so - called oceanographers earlier today must be counted as the most important and important legislation on this council and, though further,. In that sense, July 3, 2015 is clearly a historic day. What a joy it is that in these matters, such a wide variety of reconciliations has been established! The preparation of the bill was thorough and careful, the work being done on the Senate committee as a model, and the discussion here at the council was widely objective and illuminating. You could say that today's law's approval is a turning point. This law is one of the most important factors to be on our way to the future in the face of the economic woes just ahead. In the years to come, Congress and nation can look to new projects. During the winter and spring, and this summer, it has gone far away, as I would have chosen. The work schedule was halted, and the Congress has greatly reduced. I can't here and now hide my disappointments with that, my personal disappointments, because I have emphasized that a work plan is going to work, and that is not without reason. There was a red thread in the language of most speakers in the kitchen day's talk last night, both directors and opposers, to revise the work here at the General Assembly. That was especially noteworthy. Now I want to take the word from members of Congress. It is important to respond and work diligently and diligently to make changes that I know that the members of our heart want to make changes. If all councilmen and Ministers are prepared to contribute to that review, I believe that good things will happen. But then it's not enough just to look for the famous straw in the guy's eye. All of us, without compromise, need to look closer. I want to reiterate and emphasize that it's not only the rules of Congress, but also the like, how we deal with the rules of the game and what politicians we want at the General Assembly. In my opinion it is an independent and inevitable task to change the politicians who are like farts at the council. And it's none closer than us to address this situation, since we know best where the fire burns on us. So I allow myself to suggest that the officers, or their representatives, sit down and review this feature specifically in order to agree on ways to work here. It is at stake that the Council gains the solid place in the minds of the people it deserves and is, above all, so important in the interests of national interests. The whole body is no less than the nation's highest organization. That is why it may be called our highest duty here on behalf of the people of the country to contribute to the increased respect of the legislature board. In this regard there is much to consider. It is important to improve the preparation of legislators and the location of the Generals in order to solve the law. It is always a subject. Indeed, much has been accomplished by powerful work in the council, but we need to do more. I've mentioned the politicians. All of us know that there is a need for improvement and a better planning for discussion at the Assembly Hall, i.e. the part of Congress that is visible to the public. This, however, does not mean that discussions should be cut down. You see, there is little to compare with a good, rich discussion. This is especially true in discussions with people with different viewpoints, even fiercely. That is normal, since we are people with differing views and ideas, and the Allegler is obviously on the verge of an active platform of a serious political discussion. However, it is not to deny that all too often I missed such discussions in the winter. There is nothing wrong with a person absorbing himself in the chair, speaking out of the tone of voice, letting the blood be moved, moving in the shapes of the heavens, and calling out at ease when appropriate. But these are not related to abusive speech, nicknames, parentheses, and hurtful comments. In today's society there is a demand for good organization, family life, employment, education, and employment. The social structure literally requires this. If this is a matter of public interest - and in this regard, I would specifically mention young people and women - to be involved in politics, especially here at the World Council. It would be disastrous, and in reality, a disaster for society. However, this does not change the fact that Congress is and that in many ways a unique job will inevitably be necessary. The nature of the matter, according to our work, calls for distances from family and secular hours, which are unorthodox in many ways. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. However, this does not change our ability to do things for ourselves so that our Congress work will be more efficient, attracting good and talented people with a wide background. There's something else hanging on that stick. The Senate work is reserved for meetings and committee activities related to them. The international work of members of Parliament is increasing, members of Congress need and should care for a wide range of obligations in their terms, cultivate relationships with voters, recognize the rate of society's vascularity, care for many objective preparations, and generally be active in the variety of human lifes. In the last few months, it is obvious that all of this has been overcrowded by so many of us. That's not the way it should be. A good organization and a work plan that basically works out is part of the process of correcting these faults. Also, it should not be forgotten that much of Generalis's work is exemplary, even surprising and enjoyable to those on the outside who have the opportunity to get to know Generalism. The members of the Parliament also have a balanced, objective, reasonable discussion, and careful work. The General Assembly is also more independent in its activities than many other National Parliaments, where implementation is much more effective in its implementation than in this case. Thus, in spite of all the strong political and political positions in the United States, it is to be the case. It is an envious situation that we must want to preserve and strengthen, as our good companion and friend Blöndal Berland was tireless to remind us of right down to the last hour. This heritage of the great and independent senator will be held in hand. I would also like to remind you of the role of the media in this regard, their impact and their responsibilities, as well. Now that Congress is nearing its completion, I would like to encourage the general council to use the summer break, which will not be long this time, to consider these matters, to review our jobs, to walk during this legislature, to learn lessons from experience, and to shape how to correct the failings we all see, and to say that the need to be corrected. Do not delay. Let us not postpone it until the end of the term, but let us sit down in the fall and resolve to solve this. And it's good to bear in mind the good old English saying that rarely one makes two disputes. We will soon go to the wonderful Icelandic summer, enjoy it, and go to other senators who have been distracted. Then, in the fall, we meet again, feeding on the change, at the bottom of new ideas, and fully prepared for fine works, which will soon occur when a new assembly is formed on September 8. I view it as my role as the president of the Generals, the Presidency Committee, the heads of Parliaments, and the Council Committee to find a good way of thinking in behalf of the Generals and the people. I want at the end of this meeting to thank you. General senators for their cooperation. I also thank the people of the Generals for their vital work. I wish out-of-town people a nice return visit, and I expect all of us to meet at a new assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-147.u4	A respectable president. I would like to thank the President on behalf of the General Assembly for the cooperation of the current council. There's been a lot of trouble, often in a lot of trouble about the President's conference board. This controversy has taken a lot of time and effort, especially the president himself. Now that we've been working for about a month without a work schedule, I know that few of us are as opposed to that position as to a respected president. Without pointing to anyone, we know that the president has had to show extreme tolerance to various factors that have been going on here. Perhaps it is not despite the circumstances but because of circumstances that give special credit to the president for his frequent hard work at this council. I'd like to give the President and his family the best regards on behalf of us generals and the staff of the Generals for their good work. I ask the senators to say good-bye to the President of II and his family and thank the staff by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-147.u5	Thank you. Tenth. Smoke. n., Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, for warm words and good wishes to me and my family and why. Councilmen for accepting that word by rising from their seats. I repeat my thanks and wishes to do so. All members of the Parliament and staff of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-147.u6	President of the United States reports: I, apart from the approval of the Generals, authorized the Prime Minister to postpone Generalist Conference 144th, from July 3, 2015 or later, if necessary, to September 8, 2015. All units, 2nd July 2015. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that General Assembly 144th is postponed. I also give thanks to a respectable president for his good thinking at the end of Congress and wish him, the generals, the staff of the council, and all the people of the country a happy summer.
