ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u1	V.E.G. President. Last night there was something more refreshing at the council, a number of cases being planned for financial management, and indeed a delight to see the tangible results of discussion, and the work of committees in this fine work. I've been happy to discuss with these teams, the work of the Parliament, about the terms and economics of matters, and I intend to discuss the debt of the government in view of the recent report that they were taking up here by the various media yesterday. Among other things, this report is reduced to the fact that economic conditions have been idealized, low inflation has created a saving motive and has helped to reduce the impact resulting from the increased capacity of the households. Then, very pleasant reports related to increases in government credit ratings and ratings remained stable. So something is being done here in government. It says in another place in the island that earners tell only part of the story when looking at people's standard of living and that provisional income gives a better clue. Despite the evidence that the high level of money gains that many Icelandic homes experienced during the years prior to the bank crash were small increases, this does not change the financial situation of many people compared to failure. If I sum it up, a respectable president, and many and a lot of good news about what was picked up from the report, it is certainly a simple thing to say that this is the only basis and why the house's debt was attacked. Yet, it can be said that the legal rights of the households were indeed impaired, including the. ... becauseofa worsebetray. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Homes are a fundamental unit of economics, and I often feel that the overall context of the items is forgotten when it is spoken of as an important economic procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u2	Mr. President. I'm going to make sure that a short-term publicity is the late financial and economic report resulting in a decrease in capital security loans. He responds, in part, but by no means sufficiently, by means of a more detailed written petition submitted to him by the end of the year. In part, this is because the last speaker spoke of the fact that at last something had been done in reducing homes' debt, that previous resources and judgments on the inequities of the currency bar dropped the homes' debt total by 216 billion dollars. Between 2009 and 2013, 2014, of which the Kingdom's direct arrangements are about 66 billion. Now we've seen flashes of food, inadequate food, of how this debt comes out. It revealed to us what was, of course, warned that, first of all, this is a significant contribution from generation to generation. These funds go to those 50 years of age and older, and only 4.4 billion, i.e. Young people who bought apartments in those unfortunate years will be remembered. Second, and natural, as far as we can see, the greatest debt loss to the capital area. 20 billion go to the highest income - the two income tenants who have 1.2 million a month or more - 20 billion of these 70. Of course, it bites the head of the shame that was immediately pointed out here on the subject that 1,250 people who paid a debt or a home who paid a wealth tax that had 100 million dollars. K. or more, get 1.5 billion in debt. They are the same people who are down on one board and the total wealth tax in the same year. Mr. President. I think it's going to take a long time to remember that this is the kind of government budget, that a special gift is sent to the 1,250st family in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of evolution to those who have to rely on the benefits of social security, older citizens, and disability. For newly made collective agreements, improvements were made to individuals who are not quite equal in minimum terms, although the others had less. In the collective agreements, significant increases in minimum share are expected, with an average of 7.6% per year for the next three years. The climate does not rise to 2.5% at the same time, so the cost of the lowest wage should therefore increase by more than 5% per year. The budget, which is proposed for the 2016/2219 budget, is scheduled for a meeting today. The plan clearly suggests that the Council will agree that the improvement in social security will only increase 1% per year for the next three years over inflation. We in the smaller part of the legal committee have identified this, now the last at a meeting of the Commission at the highest level. Budget and economic minister, and suggested that the Congress Retraction Directive on the state-of-the-aggression programme. It did not want much of the committee or the highest. A minister and so is unfashionable to suggest that the Council agree to the favor of those whose hands have all been mentioned will be reduced to a minimum wage and that they will be kept in the poverty trap. I've heard two before. The senators talk about the importance of combating social inequities, even hearing them speak well of the results that the government of the superiors has obtained in this regard; one of them is weak. paritaprevir Willum Thor Thor Thor Þór Þórsson. If the national budget is to be agreed with the same criteria, there is an increasing inequities and indiscretion. So I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson whether he agrees with the terms of a national financial programme to improve social security by 1% per year, it is now clear that the minimum wage will rise at the same time by 5% per year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u4	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The new Harðardóttir Daughter of the queries involved in the terms of a national financial budget which is about to improve social security, where this requirement is given that, in the course of the year 20166/2019, as a national budget implies, the cost of paying will improve the social security rate by 1% per year at the same time as the lowest wage level of 5% per year. V.E.G. This strategy is proposed by the secretary of finance in accordance with the Synod for the first time, and so it is submitted to the labour agreements that have taken place in the general public markets as early as possible. A senator gives a witness and a plan for emissions. Now it's in the state-of-the-art strategy, it's very clear that it's a very uncertain subject, both of which are turned towards the collective agreements and of the current projections that have been published together with the two primarys we're working on. The Economic and Business Committee. If I look at this from the government budget as one that we'll talk about later today because of what we're doing. A senator shares the same opinion about the interest of older citizens and disability, but in terms of the government budget it is that, on the basis of the changed criteria, it is the highest. Social Affairs Minister Is expected to work on creating changes and work on the changing criteria that we see in budgets in the fall, which will be expected to take into account when we see a new national budget in the past year. Then we will see this change. I just think it's normal work on changing criteria, this government budget is running, it's careful, and it's clearly stated that there's very big uncertainty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u5	V.E.G. President. A new regional structure for the capital area was adopted yesterday in all seven societies. What a joy it is that communities share a vision of the development of the region! Interesting ideas are in the organization, like city lines. On the website of the local community in the capital area, the President's permission includes: The Borg line will be a new vehicle system that transports passengers in a quick and safe way around the capital area. This results in a transport and development problem that connects the rural communities. Thus, the city line will be a practical option in transport and will play a key role in changing travel practices. There are two special things that I'm interested in in in this context, a more efficient transport system and changes in transport energy practices, i.e. in public transportation and health care. The main problem of such projects is the price, and this is probably why it has not been attacked before, but it has been in question for some 30 years. If we put the price tag in context, it is about two or four of the transport plans it is today. V.E.G. President. I'm going to walk around here with another vision that could walk on its own but also with a fast - moving system. The idea comes from a highway in transportation engineering at the university and is based on three technologies; electric cars, self-employing cars, and the Uber cab system. With this system, no one living in the capital area would have to own a car. Cars are ordered, like taxis through a smart program, similar to Uber's cab company, but the goal is only to have enough cars in the system. In the smart vehicle system, starting sites, destinations, and distances are known, so the best system and traffic jams should be history. This sounds absurd, but technology exists, and such a system could become real after 51⁄210 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u6	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna take this opportunity and move it. paritaprevir Thank Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for asking for this fine report that came out this weekend and shows how wonderfully well - mannered the correction of the Government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson is. It has been reported that 1,250 homes received 1.5 billion. ... ina correction. That means there are 55,800 homes that are divided into about 88.5 billion. How is it different? The majority of the corrections are to be taken into account by intermediate and smaller persons; this is to people who have two overtime jobs in homes with intermediate-sponsored ASI partners, medium-sized BSRB partners and intermediate BHM partners. These are the people mentioned in the talk the other day that they were increasing their wealth. I'd be very happy if BHM buddies and BSRB partners could increase their wealth, that would be a real joy to me. It must also be thought of the members of today's desperate struggle to receive this kind of message from their left man at the Icelandic General Assembly that the average country's population is increasing their wealth. There is one factor to consider: A common reduction in loans by correction is about 1.5 billion. A.J., that means a reduction of the payment burden of 10◯12 you. K. every month, which will be 120◯150 you're going to be able to do so. K. every year, around 3 billion. K. during the 20-year life span of the loan. That's 4.5 million. c., plus that if you can use a custom pair of about 2 billion. K. during the period that is given. Amongst them, the family can save about that. 6.5 million. K. It's like getting a year without income tax, like this year. One tax-free year. This is how this correction works.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u7	A respectable president. Those of us who had experienced the collapse here on the fall of 2008 can only consider the Greeks of our day. After the European Union's stable rice control and the International Cash Fund over the last five years, it appears that the country has established a final stop. On Sunday, the Greek nation votes for a contract that would require further cuts on the welfare system, a global welfare system, a well - being system that just hangs on the lower back. There's more involved here than the financial system. Has the democratic system come to the point that it is only a matter of the laws of the economy, that Germany's secretary of finance has more to do with the fate of Greek hospitals and Greek pensioners than does the Greek government itself? In their dealings with Greece recently, the European Union and the International Cash Fund have shown excessive slavery to the capital at the expense of the public in Greece. This was made clear, for example, when Alexis Tsipras'government proposed to meet the EU and AGS cutting in simple ways. Since the Atlantic Union estimates that whole 2.4% of Greek national product flows to war during the present year, there is clearly a great need to reduce national expenditures. But so that 15% of the U.S. military exports of Germany go to Greece and 10% of French military exports go the same way. Thus, the proposals by the government of Greece to meet the cuts required by a military cut were rejected by the people. But which is it in the interest of the Greek public or the capital in the European core states? The questions that the Greeks are facing right now involve far more than the economics of the Greek state, these concerns democratic development in Europe and democratic development in the general world. And let's keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u8	Mr. President. It is safe to say that each one sees things in his own way, as it did here. paritaprevir Sæmundsson before. As we have seen, yesterday in the various media, we were doing well how this report answers some and some things, including the results. Neither to the detailed questions as a matter of course. The senator of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and the one I presented. The nucleus called for detailed answers to specific questions, and this was the case with wandering. Of course, it is not possible to say that it is a general procedure, as the administrative body has claimed. It is traceable that it is not. The fact that the youngest people get only a small portion, why? They can't buy, including. Because apartment prices are so high. The largest part goes to the major people, and the capital area also illustrates how small the country's population was involved in the subsidies that caused everything to go on this side. [[Up front.]] In addition, it may be said and worthy to keep it in mind that those who could afford to pay off their debts before a crash were paid off or less than 6 billion from state funds to cash in the form of a personal discount. Meanwhile, we're not building hospitals, while we're cutting down on education systems, etc. A respectable president. This cannot be considered a public action, and it cannot be considered reasonable. Giving about 80 billion, that's just an answer to about 70 billion, that's not answered by the 10 people we know where they went, while they're put out here to people who don't need it.... [[Up front.]] If you have a clean holding of 75 million or 100 million, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson And then you don't need support from the government fund, that's at least my food. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u9	Mr. President. In fact, it is minimal when candidates are faced with proposals from the European Commission, which are crucial to their having all the evidence to understand this matter. In the days following, we are going to discuss here a very important matter that is a stable tax. He has been very well explained in the bill presented here, and he was also introduced to a major meeting in the Harpa. It revealed that the stable tax was to be 39%, and it was to return 862 billion. However, as soon as the presentation meeting in Harpa was completed, it was also reported that the demands had been offered a second way, a contract, where they would have to meet certain stability conditions and willingly make specific stability contributions. It was remarkable that at the meeting in Harpa, stability conditions were not established, nor was it reported what was involved in this stability. We have never received any information as to the exact extent of it. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said they may be 450 billion. Most experts say 400 billion. When I look at this and evaluate with the help of the experts what the banks might sell, it turns out that there might be a higher-resurrection budget at the worst of 300 billion. In other words, the demands are being given an opportunity for discounts of 3,400,5500 billion. There is no evidence in the Commission's data on the specific stability conditions or on the specific stability criteria. Then, we are expected to participate here in giving demands the greatest discount anyone has ever offered them without the evidence on which we can base our decisions. Are these men offering, Mr. President, or dogs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u10	A respectable president. I got tired of talking about what's wrong here at the High General because I think it's very directly related to what's wrong in our otherwise fine society. And there is a lack of cooperation with the nation and lack of respect for the right of self - determination. We are gathered here only because we are elected by the people of the land, not because a god appointed a king to appoint a government as an appointed nation. It wasn't like that. Unfortunately, we haven't finished the process that it was to stop being a monarchy and become a real republic. In order to do so, in order to become a nation-reaching republic, we need to complete the work that began in the early 20th century, which was to create a new constitution for the Republic of Iceland, where the power comes from the people and not originally from the gods, for the command that we now have all bear. For example, when I was just elected to the council, I was assigned to a stock board. That's where we covered the charges, etc. In fact, they suspected me that the role of a draft commission was to invalidate elections if it was badly treated. It turns out it isn't. This board of letters comes from Denmark to show the king in Denmark that it is the council that determines the value of elections, not the King. This is reflected in my opinion in the whole administration and in the way Iceland works basically, even the way Congress works. We are, in effect, a monarchy that prefers to be king every four years rather than a republic that basically comes from the nation itself. We are to complete our independence process by renewing the discussion that began shortly after the collapse of a new constitution, a discussion that actually began when the one currently in force was first accepted by the nation. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u11	A respectable president. One more time I'd like to come up here and talk about the Senate's work at the end of the council. In fact, I feel that everyone on the contrary has come to believe that the arrangement we have here is not working. And it also seems to me that people have come to a conclusion that everyone can accept, which turns out that speaking time is limited, as is done in most councils. It is not that members of the countries that we compare with us can come up in a talk chair and speak in accordance with their desires, even asking for the word in the chamber. Sometimes prayer is needed in advance. This is so that we can organize the discussion, so we know that on Tuesday, 9 p.m., this will be discussed, and on October 15 we must discuss this matter. It would add to the production and improve the working spirit, I think, if there was more organization at the council. However, in order for members of the smaller section to cancel their language weapon or the right to speak and stop a case, something else needs to be received. In the past two years, I have not experienced that governments, the directors, approach the lesser part with any reconciliation or try to negotiate a case in advance, that is in the final meters. And that's why the idea of national pay, that some member of the Parliament can refer to controversial affairs in a national law, could be the other one, these were two cohesive cases. I don't think we should be waiting on this, but we should gather together, we're going to file a case in the fall where we're going to break it down, because it's not really an invitation to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u12	V.E.G. President. Now I'm going to get another chance to talk about the transportation system I've been building here. That's fine, because maybe the talk was a little short. The idea of transportation system in the capital area, as well as perhaps in the northern part of the country where there is enough people, is built as previously said in three technical technologies; electrical cars, self - driving cars, and the Uber cab system. I'd like to take a little closer to each tech thing for myself. If we start with the electric cars, it's such a thing that we can see that real energy exchange is in Norway, where electricity cars are equal in cost to conventional cars. I think there's one thing we need to do here, that it won't be real until the cost is equal in between. For those who don't know the Uber rental, it's a system with a huge number of cars, and waiting time is really short because there's almost a car on every corner. This is done through a smartphone program and I picture such a system in the capital area or in the north, which would then be via programs similar to Uber, which could be a prescription or order to a car similar to cabs. So maybe finally what's not yet come, but they're working on, i.e. The self-sustaining cars. There, Sverrir Bollason will report in the summer about how self-sustaining vehicles will function through the transport system in Iceland. I think this can solve a lot of problems, e.g. in case of travel services by the disabled, in reduce drinking driving, and in other ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u13	President. In view of the fact that the European Union has been urging the Greek nation to go against the wishes of the country's prime minister, I would like to declare its support to the Greek nation and encourage it to follow its heart in the provision of a national law that will soon take place. I think it's worth remembering that the same people who supported us Icelanders, when we were fighting in the banks, and we were in shock at the massive collapse that struck us, have declared support to the Greek people, like Stieglitz and Krüger, and many more. The members of Parliament, who have had to see what could have happened to us and who have had the opportunity to work out very difficult times in the way that we are getting up, should support other nations, and especially Greece, who have been greatly maligned by the so - called trollus, in which there has been a thought on the shoulders of the public a huge debt asked to be paid back by making further debts that are, of course, far - reaching. I'd also like to remind you, when people say that Greeks are lazy and tax frauds, that people get to know things properly. You can find a lot of good articles on the Internet if you look for them. I hope that people know not to swallow all the headlines of the big media without being critical. I'd like to remind you that refugees have covered Greece, which no one has ever been able to deliver. [[The president calls.]] Let us stand with the Greek nation, all of us as one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u14	V.E.G. President. I once heard a story about an Icelandic politician asking for the check, and when he handed it over, he said: "This is not the conclusion I asked for. I don't know if this story is true, but the left memory response here at a council meeting to the report that came yesterday reminds me a little bit of this reaction. The report reveals, as I said earlier, that the government's debt was unconvincedly successful, and it makes a good impression. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Now I'm not going to grab what men have done here when they tell each other to keep quiet, but I'm not going to do it, but it's a general operation, as we have seen. In general surgery, if it is our opinion that this is not necessary, in this case 2% - were the rest of the 98% to pay for it? No, not at all. When that operation first came to them, they began looking for those who did not receive it. The tenants, for example, were unable to obtain relief because they did not have mortgages, just as bicycle workers do not make money out of fuel. It's just that kind of thing. It's a general procedure, just as when a person raises a personality discount, the identity discount will definitely come into the hands of those who do not need it because it is a general procedure, but it will help the most indisputed. This operation here helps middle-and-noblers, as I said before, like two BSRBs living together, like two BHMs living together, like two ASI communities living together. These are just the people who need a kickback and are lucky to have received a kickback and now have the opportunity to improve their interests. Then there are other measures made by the government, in contrast with tax reductions and other factors that are also involved in helping this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u15	President. Already after the end of the council, there are more than fewer who are considering the lessons of this council that are now coming to an end. More and more of the government officials are now appearing to say that the mood needs to be revised, that our main lesson is that freedom of speech needs to be corrected, that they need to reduce the ability to speak. I think it's important that we all come together and draw common lessons for democracy and Congress. They're supposed to be the fact that there's enough to go to the majority of government in Iceland. Now that we have come, all of us have come to know that the most recent of the rules have been traditionally maligned. It's a methodology that's supposed to be history. This is humiliating, for both its victims, for the voters, for the lesser part. It is also humiliating for much of it to use force to bring war into action. I'd like to name a case like an adjustment to a frame plan. I'd like to name a case like that mackerel. I'd like to mention such issues as the demarcation of the Development Agency, the European Union, the conditions for the financial support of the local community and other cases that have been presented in the past and reassigned, by a democratic force entitled to the Allied Council and have a new Senate to break the majority of people in many bad cases again, and that should be the lesson to learn to give up these practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u16	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of General and Education Committee, but we recommend three adjustments to the bill which is at first relevant to the regulations of 26 g. ... whosays that they have a sheriff's authority. We're doing a little tight here because we don't think the accusers in general are supposed to have police authority. It is vital that we resist the merger of the police and the prosecution as much as it can be done to increase the credibility of both parties. Therefore, the change is proposed to cancel the requirement that the law - trained members of the local prosecutor use police authority. Second, we need to change our set of values because, of course, it takes time to prepare for these big changes. The issue was settled in March. Then we thought it would be helpful to complete it here at the council and that a new office could begin on July 1, but obviously it will not work out. That is why we set the date on January 1, 2016. However, there are several laws that will already take effect, chapters 22, and 23. are valid on July 15, 2015, so that the office can be advertised and prepared in the best way to try to make sure that the prosecution is not investigated in the important categories discussed. Third, we suggest that the money - disposal clinic hosted by the State Marshal is moving to a special prosecutor until the office has been established. This is part of meeting the requirements that the FATF has made for such institutions, and we hope that it will be approved. It's under the heading "Why." Councilmen Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, in advance, attracting the funding of the office. Other members of the council who feel this way are the ones here. Councilmen Páll Valur Björnsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Árnason Arannason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u17	Mr. President. I would like to give a brief talk that highlights the final budget we discuss here at the 3rd and last. it makes clear how well the last government could understand and how good the present government was. As noted in the discussion here at 2nd. it was in common with the campaign of the government that took over and then with its former governments, for it was the last year under budget that was accepted in the earlier part of the world. It also states that the preceding four years have been a very good reversal, slow, but safe recovery. How important that is! This, of course, is in harmony with the fact that in many other areas that the government also left a fine bite for the present supreme. Government. For example, within the next 18◯24 months, four medium - sized projects will begin in Iceland. They will be connected to at least two of the inducers. That's gonna be very important for economic growth in Iceland. All these projects were fixed and put on the drawing table during the time of the last government. Of course, it is remarkable to look so far above the stage and see that in a two - year period of the present government, there has been no new project, even the work in the field of data beings that sometimes are using the highest level. Governments and government officials, too, had come to the drawing table or were determined in the time of the last government. Finally, because of what. I would also like to use this opportunity to say as my opinion that it is time to make the final financial law more clear. It is very difficult to understand for us, who are not inmates, and who have a session of the budgetary committees of various teams and those listed there. I also feel that there is a clearer need to establish the rules that are followed when humans are moving away, for example, beyond the year. The 2008 follow-up rule is that the more than 10% is dropped, 10% can be followed. For stock costs, that's 4%. As shown in this final budget bill, there are cases of abnormalities from that rule. That may have a reasonable explanation, but are we not living in a time of transparency? Aren't we living at a time of emptiness? Don't you have to be able to understand why the rules apply in some cases or some people don't? I think so, but I'm sure with a joint effort we'll be able to get to the point. Chairman of the budget board into the modern world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u18	A respectable president. I'm not going to hold up my job at the council, because Congress has been concluded. But I'd like to reiterate what I said yesterday, first that's still being sought here for praise on behalf of the last government, then I went over the way the current government got itself and cut down some election promises that had been set up as plans for the previous government, that's all just fine with it. There was a turning point in government affairs when this government took over and set the goal on a truly unscrupulous budget. I've also reviewed that it is, in my opinion, very distressing how late we accept the 2013 final law. According to Congress, government bills and final financial laws should be submitted as close as possible to each other, but now everyone knows how the Senate work has been here at this spring council, constantly without question. Sadly, there are a number of legal laws that clearly require a long period of time before this year's completion. This is something that hopefully we won't be able to see again, because I think most senators have already realized that this is not the way to be able to do the Senate work. Senators, members of the Parliament, and the general public, have already had enough of this play that was started here soon after a New Year's Eve. I'd also like to mention one thing, because it's been shown that something is blurred in these last financial laws, it was now so that a bill of public finance that we intended to make a law in us was made so bad and finished in a budget of great reconciliation and only done on professional terms, which involved making political cases over the final meters, sacrificing in contracts that I find very bad, because the state of state and most of the observation organizations, I'm talking about state opinion and financial committees, are waiting for these laws to come together to simplify the whole system and make money. I'm sorry that we couldn't have made the public financial bill legal in this council. Otherwise, I am satisfied with what appeared in the 2013 final budget, and I truly turn the government around after a very long cut-off period in the basics of the former government and while spending funds on some kind of pet project that was unnecessary. The priorities are clear, dignified president, health, education, legal affairs, courts, and especially transportation matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u19	Mr. President. Now I have to admit that I'll always be half sad and sad when I hear the chairman of a legal committee, eh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, express himself on the terms of the government and their status both during the last term and now. It's like whisk. A senator failed to recognize at the unprecedented position we were in during the last term, since she was here like a grizzly heel while we were scrambling out of that situation. But the final budget we're talking about at 3rd. Displays the results we have achieved. It is true that we had to cut back, and it is true that we need to raise our expenses here, but the way that was being cut down was so that those in need of government services would not have to carry the weightiest load, and increase taxes so that they would not benefit from individuals and businesses. It was government personnel who made sure that the economy was in a way possible serving, the same government workers who have been put on a law here when they asked for compensation. And what? A senator would expect to agree on the State budget that if government workers receive more than 2% of the money gains, they will be cut off in the welfare system in return. A respectable president. I don't agree with it at all. A senator said this about public financial matters. It is a bill of four financiers, with great peace. It was simply not ready. We offered summer work, and God knows what to do to meet people so that they could be done better, but they were not accepted because of failure. þm. Vigdís Hauksdótttir had to make personal differences, as she would when possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u20	A respectable president. Yes, it's informed here that it's only the government opposition that can be criticized. Government parties must not criticize the government opposition. It's just nice to get it out once and for all. Hv. paritaprevir My Oddný Harðardóttir knows as well as I do that there was no disagreement in this case, and I thought it was very strange, because the bill was submitted in the council by the current highest level. The French minister of Bjarni Benediktsson's son, was virtually unchanged from the time of the former government. There is a transnational agreement to implement these laws. That's why I pointed to the political raw skin game that now plays the environment, and I'm primarily talking about what's going on. Councilmen left green and Conspiracy, that's what they say. Hv. A senator declared that the last government had stood for unprecedented action. I agree because on the autumn of 2008, banks were bombed, but this was not to say that they were about to spare those who really hurt to tie, because the senator was trying to carry off a volleyball in this regard. For the first time in Iceland's history, they were introduced to the basic benefits of nursing pensioners and disability, and they are down to 16 billion. At the same time, the right hand of the government was applying for involvement in the EU. An unprecedented process involved changing the Constitution and so forth, a respectable president. The basic services were not being thought of. As chairman of a financial committee, I know best what the health system was like when this government began, it was a smoking ruins - a smoking ruins, both the host business of the Hospital and health institutions in a land where bone was cut.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u21	Mr. President. The two minutes I have against what I have to say. There will not be enough for a senator to correct any misinformation that might arise. A senator went with him. Of course, it's good criticism if you're looking at something, but not if you're throwing in all kinds of bullshit and nonsense here. I'm sorry, Mr. President, if I'm saying things like that after a speech and an answer. Senator. Just to be told, I'd like to point out one thing about it as a dog. A senator's discussion of the matter, i.e. that the minority agents and the government stand for what? Because we would not have believed in the government in that year, a legal committee would have avoided the payment of the final budget in 2012. I want it to be clear here, Mr. President, that we sat by because a bill on the final budget by 2012 was not being worked on the Committee. We asked for more meetings. We had one 45 questions left when the bill was torn out of the commission in perfect strife; we simply couldn't help but sit down because we had not been able to answer those questions. All of this is booked and can be read on the legal committee's website. I encourage people to do what they think some other reason has been put in charge of the final budget in 2012 but to handouts and poor work management of a budget board. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u22	A respectable president. I couldn't find a question in this counter, but it's still worth answering about the senator's final words that this is probably the first time that a retired government does not pay yes to its last government funds. At that time, a financial committee had received the needed ones for the final financial law, but at this point in the previous year, a smile had been on a file, I have called it a lawsuit, and there were all kinds of requests and requests for guests in this case. So it's just that this is the way it is. In the year that they were elected from power, it is true that members of the council live by their own final financial laws. Yeah, I know the truth hurts, but it's just part of a political game.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u23	Mr. President. It takes note of what happened. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has more to say in front of him. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who was in the hall the other day, fell upon him far away from abuse, and the senators had to come to defend him at large. That was not a very good thing to do. Senator. I'll think about it for a second. A senator then called me a representative of the government's demands. What do you think? A senator on the performance of the present government? Now it's time to find out that, under the top. The prime minister of the reign of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is giving the highest price to the demands of the government. There are 400 billion discounts for the demands. How does she feel about that? Does she think it's justified, then, that I call it a government officer? I can't think of doing that. Mr. President. Despite the wind. A senator would like to ask her, though, " I don't think I have the right answers and the other day at work. ' paritaprevir The Hrafn Hrefni Gunnarsson that perhaps it's time for the final budget to be passed so that you understand things properly? As mentioned in that discussion, the conversation is latering, but you do not see numbers behind individual teams. I also asked why. A member of the previous discussion, which she failed to answer, was so busy with the room over the abuses of distant men and others, in what way she felt she should react when it comes to it, as mentioned in the Commission opinion for which she had the background, that unique tasks such as the Eastern nursing home are greatly exceeded in a plan that the final spending is many times higher than the plan. [[The president calls.]] How does he react? A senator? I don't see a thing made by that guy. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u24	A respectable president. I'm sorry if you do. A senator has taken what some shameless person has taken to heart. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son when I was complimenting him that there was a demand for him in Greece. He himself said that he had almost been asked to go there to save the Greeks. This might be a different situation in Greece, and it would not have been necessary to make a national payment if it had been realized. I'd like to refer to that word, but I haven't talked about it yet. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, although he sits in the Hall right now because he has just not been under discussion until now. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson started talking about him on her own. A respectable president. The pain of the chest at the moment was intense. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor when I told him that the former government was the government of a ruler. They were applying for participation in the EU. Icesave was to be placed on the shoulders of the people. It was given all the necessary things to do with the demands. They were not in the debt of the forward - stake company during the last term, which has come to the end of the day. It was done on the 110% journey, so the ones who owed most of the debt got dropped in large debt. Then, day after day, these same senators come here and criticize the systemic debt - breaking process as the Supreme Government. The prime minister of King Sigmundur's Davíð Gunnlaugsson was prepped and showed that he was successful and took this money from the swelling farms, and it's a good thing. Finally, justice came to pass. But as for that, a respectable president, I don't see the difference between the master of the crew's government and calling the government of the rich people, as was invented down in the Tues and the League adopted itself. A Government of Rich People - Isn't it equivalent to shame and the government of the demands? [[The president calls.]] Aren't they the demands that are rich people? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u25	Mr. President. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir can get advice and help and help at the highest level. The prime minister who has come to the house to explain this. The fact is, first thing. A senator likes to have it on this plan, that all that is wrong. A senator said here, even though she'd take Icesave 1 and 2 and lay together, that's less than the highest. The prime minister and his government are now giving a discount to the demands. We are now talking about a stable tax of 862 billion. It turns out that no one pays stability taxes. There is another way that was not reported until after our presentation in Harpa. It's about 400 billion, 450 says it's the highest. Prime Minister. In other words, some 400 billion discounts are being given to demands. What do you think? A senator about that? Could this government, then, be called the demanding government? I don't do that, but what? A senator uses those words, and we've discussed them before. Hv. A senator, however, did not answer my material questions about the final financial law. [[Yeah.]] No, she didn't. I asked her how she or a financial committee, after an incident, was willing to react, and what equipment she had to put herself in charge of when what is presented in her committee is happening that some institutions, I mentioned nursing homes in the Eastlands as an example, are far beyond schedule. What does a budget do about that? This is not stated in the committee view. On the one hand, a financial committee is critical of various financial guidelines provided by the Ministry. The committee reported that a team was appointed to explain this matter, and they were still thinking about it. There's no change in the final budget. Is it that way under the front line? A senator is just being taken away from the Ministry of finance? Is not the government at the General Assembly, and has not the Generals consciously tried to exercise greater authority? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u26	A respectable president. I'm going to tell you again that I'm not the difference between being the master of the crew, a government of rich people or a government of private friends. These are all words that have fallen down in the past two years. Councilmen of the government. It's just that way. But some people in this house are holy, and I have done so often before. While this is the case, I always come up here and defend the government because it's been very successful in just two years. Of course it hurts. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is to see that both classes of campaigns are almost ported in just two years. I've said in the past that if you'd been prioritised for the last term, the improvement for Icelandic society would have been much earlier. I can't help it, a respectable president, even though it is. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson has a hard time understanding the final budget. He's got to get counseling from others, but I'm trying to figure out what's in these final financial laws. It is true that one nursing home in the country, Huldundundóð, has been much overworked. The majority of the budget is well aware of this forward drive and has made arrangements for the Ministry of Health. When the Parliamentary Committees meet after a legal vacation, which is between July 1 and August 15, this will be one of the issues that will be resolved and consider why this happened. I know a lot about why this happened, but I don't have time to go over it. A respectable president. I have to pray. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was to look elsewhere but to me as the chairman of a legal committee to understand the laws above his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u27	Mr. President. There's damage to your head. A senator, chairman of the budget board, would pick up bars from the hall when she has given any reason here for discussion, to be honest, but I don't care about it. I'm sorry to warn a respectable president, but I'm afraid I have to say a few words for a lawsuit. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. Perhaps it has been a long time before. A senator can baloney and handle telecommunications indefinitely without an answer. It is not good for democracy and Congress to let such things continue too long. I'll just admit that as a minister of the last government, I often kept quiet and took things without answering them, it just seemed reasonable and concerned about the matters that needed to be paid off at the council, so you did things, including what you did. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, a well-traveled treason which the presidents never made to comment on, something remarkable, and I rarely answered, or never, because I thought it was not a purpose. So I may have a little time left to defend only my hands and the government I was in charge of, along with the Supreme Court. Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in his day when it is discussed in a way that is appropriate. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir did here. I'm not going to go chasing after something like that. A senator told me that I was absent here last week. Just to state it, a respectable president, I wasn't trudging at work, I was a representative of the Northland Council and vice president of the Northern Council of the Economic Committee of the European Parliament at Copenhagen meetings and the work visits on Zealand and the Hurl. Hv. paritaprevir Thus, Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir insisted that the basic benefits of social security had been reduced by 16 billion during the last term. That's wrong. The social security core improvements were not impaired. On the contrary, longevity insurance was unsatisfactory, and unemployment benefits were unsatisfactory throughout the crisis. It is true, however, that those who had income other than money from the social security system had to suffer the reduced percentages of pay - related losses and actually moved back to what they were until 2007, since we were not as rich as we thought when those proportions were particularly diminished. Of course, it is sad, and in itself it should be a concern, a respectable president, only if we had become insensitive to the fact that the chairman of a legal committee makes such changes over and over again and over again, and that one of course has certain concerns about the group of lawsuits in the hands of members of the council. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who either doesn't know better or thinks it's no responsibility to claim empty space here from a speech chair at the General Assembly. But that is what we live in, as this example proves, which I was going over earlier, and for my pleasure, the highest. head of society and housing minister, confirming by, that, I believe, I was telling this right and true. Then came the time. A senator said of the state's financial affairs and the much change in policy in the materials that had occurred in the development of the present government. Hv. A senator said that this was the goal of a baseless budget, yes, with the appearance of the present government. Nothing could be more remote, nothing could be more nonsense than to claim that the target was first placed on a sliding government business with the appearance of that government. Once again, you have to ask me why. Don't you think that's better with Senator Vigdís Hauksdóttir? Is she so terribly ill-informed about what was going on here during the last term and from collapse? Or she just doesn't care what she says, even though she's chairman of the budget and what it says. A senator, from the chair at the General Assembly? The fact is that everyone should know and really need to know that this is one continuous story, that it was set to a baseless budget, about a baseless budget in 2013 in June 2009. In June 2009, the first national budget was published for an average of time, and it had two main objectives for this matter, two main guidelines. It was a positive prime in 2011 and balance in 2013. According to this, it was won and it was achieved. In 2011 this was examined and slightly softened, so they said that in 2013 it was enough to get about equal, and the rest was not achieved until 2014. It both went along. The objective of an original government budget composed in the darkness of collapse, in the black hole of collapse, was achieved. I predict, Mr. President, it will later be of interest in the pages of history. The way Iceland was able to turn its public farms back in so few years from such a deep crisis and bad situation. Now I'm not sure I'm going to remember all the numbers anymore, because I may not review them every day like here once, but in a gross way it was, so in 2008, Iceland's government fund was built up by 217 billion angles at the so-called prices, 240, 250 billion guesses today. About 14% of GDP was right. In 2009, 140 billion were set at the current prices, close to 10% of GDP, 120 or 123 in 2010, about 7%, about 80 2011, 35 2012, and about zero 2013. That's the story. These are the facts, Mr. President. It's a government bill. Let men argue about him, but let him reveal this picture to us. I have no experience that economic and government funds in trouble comparable to Iceland's, or smaller, have achieved such reversal in so few years, where people are willing to set for themselves to reach the slopes of half to one percent of national production each year. However, this was taken in great steps, providing that the state population was about at a low angle in 2013, we were saying that we were no longer collecting debt, and then well it is an excellent amount of money now being shown to us in the budget for 2014, in spite of a large percentage of the irregularities and subsidies for state funds, such as very large bank payments and so on, but in spite of the continuation of financial recovery. That's fine. The current government can get all credit for it from me, in fact, I thought it could have done even better by not losing so much income yes, yes, and hopefully going well, but there is one match from the bottom of the state's survival in 2008 throughout the last term and into this. [[Up front.]] And then they hear the chairman of the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, try to talk about this in a way that she did before here, well, all smaller things will not be done, Mr. President, in a speech chair at the General Assembly, to try to oversee everything that might be considered to be acceptable to others, and to be proud of a heap like a rooster or a chicken, because everything is a good thing to them. It's not like that. Its comment on how the last government has given everything to demands, etc. I'm not worth answering, I'm gonna make the answers work. paritaprevir Accusations, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, to that end. Of course, that's a sad case and now comes a stone from a glass house when a member of the current board talks, or what? Do we not want to examine just how things work here when the stable tax and the emergency contract bill will be examined later in discussions this week? That's the way it is now, a respectable president. Finally, because there may not be further discussions in terms of government in this spring or summer council, it is possible to rejoice in things that have gone well and, in itself, celebrate the position in which we have made it, that's a lot of success, you can't say it any different. How important was he? Yes, it was absolutely of infinite importance to the future of Iceland's welfare society, as is true of today's high level of government interest. That's right, 80 billion plus/minus paying on the government's debt, maybe negative funding balance at 60 billion bucks. But how do you think it would have been? Who would think that interest would be today if the hawk hadn't been taken down so quickly and that we hadn't been successful, successful, and so fast? It is easy to set up an example in which the interest payments were on the opposite side of 100 billion. Of course, such people were like piglets, both under the savings and the tax payoffs, but they gave it back, they set up a government fund in four years, and they caused the State's interest rates to be no more than that. This was accomplished at the same time because economic growth began in general in the economic conditions that are not default, since such extensive measures are particularly difficult because they can have a negative impact on economic demand and economic growth. It can be very difficult to do both at once, to reverse negative economic swings into recovery, and to master government management, for up to a degree, the actions of each other are working against the other. I'm sorry. But if you succeed in finding the right mixture, you can do it as Iceland's example proves. My concern today is that it's my main concern. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir believed that a huge turn of policy had occurred with the establishment of the current government of the state. What did it include? To cut back and forth? No, it was set in 2009. If there's anything, the change in policy is with the formation of this government as it appeared to us. In a four - year national budget, which is now before the council, after the recovery, and who intend to accept that government funds will be kept gone for the next three or four years. That's a worry. There will be no significant improvement in the government for the next three years at least according to the existing government budget. That's a lot of concern. It is different with the dramatic steps taken each year to improve the growth throughout the last term. It should not be so, unfortunately, Mr. President, that unchanged emphasis on government revenue and in the case of cost, is that in 2014 this turn around, and we will see a worse supply of state funds in 2015 and the years in hand than 2014? That's what I think this is going for, unfortunately, and that's a lot of concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Senator. We have previously wrestled in this public talk, and we have done so frequently during the last term. Still, I felt bad that the chairman of the budget committee was weighed when it was claimed that she was wrong, I think it was simply wrong, I thought her speech was good. I can see that although the intention was made to hold down unscrupulous financial laws, and at times it claimed that this was the case with the budget, it was revealed when the financial account was adopted and the final financial law stated that it was not quite achieved. Actually, I think they were doing the best they could. This may also be the case in view that in 2009 the government set a goal, found in the Ministry of finance on the prospects for financial development, was entitled something to do, and was cooperated with the World Bank Fund. Unfortunately, there were goals that were not reached, sort of because the government did not have enough to take on the necessary steps to build a job, I mention Back, which kept stalling, but was the basis for, for example, to build a living. The economic growth should have been much higher before it was reached. I wanted to make these comments that, despite a fine talk, I felt that this was especially unfair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u29	Mr. President. If there's any senator here in the hall present to me, I'll be in a speech chair at the General Assembly, and I'll make all the facts wrong, I'll take a stand, let me come up and correct it. It doesn't matter which side. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir or somebody else. I don't think it's good for democracy, nor for Congress, that a man should pass such things without being corrected. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir was able to do over and over again with available official facts during a brief talk earlier, and I called attention to it and pointed it out. Why she did so, I'm quite ready to discuss, if her party sisters have other theories about why she was wrong with the facts, let me give them an explanation. The reality, though, is that. A senator repeatedly misjudged the facts, babbled the points, and was not to be ignored. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Regarding the 2009 objectives, and as they were slightly adjusted for better results in 2011 than they had anticipated, they were achieved. That's absolutely clear. The aims of a positive element in 2011 and the state's balance of 2013 and the rest of 2014 have all been going on. We got it. That is also the facts, for it is the bill that reveals them to us. I think I know what. paritaprevir Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson read it thoroughly when he comes out and even learn it from the outside. Regarding economic growth, Iceland should have made it faster and higher according to original ideas, it's also wrong. May I remind you, then, that the predictions of the World Bank, the World Bank, OECD, and other parties at the end of 2008, and in 2009, other things were going on in the world but then on. [[The president calls.]] Is there not something more predicted in Europe's economic growth as early as 2010/2011 than it was?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u30	A respectable president. The report presented in 2009 showed that economic growth, as I recall in 2012, was only quoted in the report, was to be reached by 4.4%, but not close to it. I mentioned that the aims submitted in 2009 were not achieved. What is the best witness that they have not been reached? Yes, the government itself revised that goal because it was likely that they would not be caught in 2011. I noticed that the senator mentioned the 2011 target that had been achieved, which was quite different, less, and less goals than were set forward in 2009. I'm totally right. On the issue of what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir mentioned it specifically as evidence that she was here with unfounded letters to have fallen during her last term. Let me point out that the only argument I've heard, despite claims about many other things, is not in my opinion. The last government, despite declarations, did not achieve any unscrupulous financial laws, unfortunately. I don't know the state bill outside or the last budget, but I cleaned up for the last term and read it, I even read more of it like Icesave deals and all the documents that were supposed to keep a secret under the roof on the committee stage, I read it all. It is also clear that when they claim this way, they must offer more arguments and refer to more evidence than this one, which I have tried my utmost to drive out of this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u31	Mr. President. I'm not sure what. A senator has heard my speech and probably not a speech at all. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, at least He wasn't here in the gym.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u32	... listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u33	Hv. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir scrawned out of the hall when she had finished speaking so that it's not available - she did. [[No, that's not fair.]] [[That's not fair.]] [[The point is, she did it.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u34	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u35	We cannot do that, although she has not honored us with her presence. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is wrong, Mr. President, that I have specifically presented it as a argument. A senator referred to him. One of two or three examples that I took foreboding. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, was saying that by means of this government, it was first laid on the baseless budget, that was what I specifically stated. I spoke up. A senator, who can carry it within a room, for it was a good thing. A senator said that with the development of this government, it was set to a baseless budget, which everyone knows is wrong and was done immediately in 2009. Of course, there are many ways to look at the resources of the Kingdom, including the year 2009, e.g. whether we want to compare the years with or without irregular joints. It is often helpful to try to better identify the underlying actual growth of the state, income, and expenses, keeping a set number of irregular teams, then defined as the rest of them each year, outside the example, because they often swing up and down. There are both shocks when the loss or the like, or deposit money into the apartment loans and immediately write it, as we landed in, and then, in the other direction when, all of a sudden, the lottery kicks into the state's table, like 19% property share in the Lands Bank and is owned, income gains in the same year. If we set aside a number of irregular joints and thus compare in 2009 to a year in 2009 to 2013, the remnant of the State was a positive figure of 9 billion in 2013. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So the state population did not succeed? Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u36	A respectable president. I recommend a change to a bill for nature protection laws, that instead of dates as read there, January 1, 2016, in Article 1. Come on: 15 November 2015
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u37	Mr. President. The history of these laws, the laws of nature, has become longer and longer than I would have chosen, so to speak. Of course, I would have chosen that these laws would have gone into effect when they were supposed to take effect. It was requested by the Environment and Transport Committee at the last assembly that the case would be delayed after the time being at the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister had suggested a return of the law, and I think it's important that we maintain it. Then came the agreement in the Committee that it would not be done but that the execution of the law would be postponed. I'm sorry to postpone these laws again and again, since our environment has changed in a way that calls for us to receive new nature protection laws. It does not matter whether we will discuss specific laws such as protection, or whether we will discuss the precautions discussed in the Constitution that will be composed in some way in the constitution of a new environmental court. There, representatives of all classes have expressed themselves in a way that they want to see the environmental rights set up in some way into a constitution. The rule of caution is one of those principles. That was true even now. The pen should then be placed in place, regarding the precautions and the requirements for special protection. I think we need to face the fact that current protection laws are far behind the times. The sooner new nature protection laws can go into effect, the better. But I'm glad we're not putting up any more than the highest value. The minister made this clear. I'm stressing that this case must not be delayed any longer. These are very important things. I'd also like to mention the P.R., which was the most important topic of discussion here at the time, and unfortunately, it's still very hard to read. Recently, I read news about setting up the payer gate at Seljaland Falls. V.E.G. Fortunately, industrial and commercial ministers fell from natural passes ideas that also aimed at cutting the public rights. I also think it's long time for a man to put the public rights more closely into a nature protection law and to put it primarily in the interest of nature rather than the interests of tourism. I'd also like to mention that if we succeed in installing the resources of the nation's share in which resources are expected to be used, it is of course normal to look for pay paid by those using the resource. In the case of the tourism services selling this resource, selling aesthetics, aesthetic value of the resource we have in Icelandic nature. Of course, we are to associate with the public rights that are free to travel through the land where there is no need to pay for their journey across the country. However, we need to keep in mind the view that circumstances may arise that the public rights need to be restricted from the views of nature protection. We know this from many parts of the world. I would like to use this opportunity to say that there is an urgent need for us to revise this legal environment. This revision has already been available. There were certain issues that the representatives of the Environment and Transport Committee discussed at the time. I want to take this opportunity and encourage the highest. To the gratifying effect, a new and modern protection law will be applied as late as it was in mid - November of this year. It's not just because of environmental rights development, it's also because of social evolution. We watch it in travel services and elsewhere that there is a huge need for changes in this area. These are primarily the comments I would like to make here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk, the Katrín daughter of Jakobsdóttir, for which she briefly considered some aspects that we fully agree that a review and review is needed. I'd also like to thank her for her share in the approval achieved by the Committee at the last time. I think that peace is very important to all who love nature and want to contribute to the protection of nature. I'd like to ask, though. A senator at one time. When we agreed to postpone the case, that the Ministry would have room to work professionally, which I believe was actually done and that it was really well done, the minister felt that there was perhaps too little time for the Ministry to continue his cooperation. As a result, July 1st came to a conclusion, but the members of the committee realized that that that time was high. Hv. A senator noted that it is very important to complete the law as soon as possible. I agree with her, but I would like to ask her if the most important things are not that the law becomes as good as possible, that the committee can have enough time to talk, to summon all those parties. Is that not the most important thing in the fine process that has taken place? I agree that we should hurry, but I have pointed out that the material things must be more important. I just want to ask you, is it? A senator agreed that material things are of utmost importance to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I want to say it first, of course, the contents of the legislature are the most important thing. But I would also like to say that we discussed these matters in November 2013 when we spoke to the legislature of the legislature. Thereafter, we agreed to postpone the case, and we thought those on the committee that the deadline for July 1, 2015, should be sufficient for the Ministry to review the case, as there was a reason. The Environment and Transport Committee has handled the situation very carefully. paritaprevir Fear of Höskuldur, son of Þórhallsson. We were even. I have done much research on the aspects mentioned earlier, but I did not mention aggressive species and road transport, which were the two additional components I would have wanted to mention, which were the most important factors in this case. In fact, I thought it would be easy for the Ministry to consider the subject that is well explained in the careful opinion of the committee from this time, and to submit and present the proposals. Environmental and Transport Committee. In fact, I thought that time had been enough, and now is certainly enough if it is intended to delay a validing to November 15th, for I believe that material coverage was quite good under the lead. paritaprevir Fears the son of Þórhallsson at the last assembly. And as long as we keep threads for the work that had begun there, it should be enough time to finish confirming the protection laws of nature at the present time and to do so so so that everyone should be pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u40	A respectable president. There was a crucial stage here when we adopted new laws for nature protection in 2013. Much work had been done, and a great deal of preparation had taken place, much study had also taken place. Some aspects of that law were controversial, yet people in general agreed that they had gone a long way toward that viewpoint when the matter was completed at the council of their day. Then, the head of the Environment Committee (EEC), Mörður Árnason, former general and current deputy, can afford to be a tremendous success when trying to achieve the best solidarity of a new nature protection law. Hv. paritaprevir I got a little information from Svandís's Svavarsdóttir before I got here on a talk tour about how many times nature protection laws had been updated and approved in the council. They were first approved at the 75th legislature of 1955-1956. Then Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson, offered them. They lasted 15 years, or until 1970 when Þ. The Gíslason moved nature protection laws here. Then they lasted 28 years, and there was a new law set up at the 1998-1999 council, which lasted again for 14 years. It's interesting to see this because it shows us, and we know that a lot of work was involved, too, when every law I have mentioned was accepted. When it came to government exchange, the current government decided that instead of trying to work with the fundamental issues of delinquency, not taking over, but bringing a bill that would dissuade them altogether. Happily, on the board, after receiving envelopes and visitors, the decision to stop the government's movement was made when the government was established that although the individual aspects of the legislators were controversial - even though it was now that it was in legislation, we have seen something like this in national legislation, we have seen the same in national legislation, men have done on individual factors before the response has been so far as never to be such a failure to accept the law - the first assumed that this body was a good legislation that would be better and would have a more clear right handout of nature protection in the country than the situation of being without the value of the new nature protection. It is a solidarity, and it is well. All I want is men to continue working in the spirit of that solidarity. Of course, it was quite disappointing when we realized during the winter that the committee, who had worked to define the conflict, and the details that needed to be examined, had all agreed to postpone the Law's taking from 2013 to July 1, had not been sufficiently involved. Although we had a good meeting with the Ministry, when it came to making a decision as to what to submit as a change of motion and as a presentation on the Ministry's Web, we were out of control. It was also disappointing when we began to realize that there would not be a complete review of these regulations. And so it went, and in here came a request that it be postponed again. I'm not talking about some serious treatment, but people could have used their time much better. It was given a considerable amount of time, more than a year. If I counted correctly, men could have used 16 months to do this, but they just weren't used well enough. I'm going to respect men, though, who now sit, i.e. the Minister now living in the Environment and Resource Ministry, that there was a minister trade, and it hasn't reached this whole time. The Environmental and Resource Ministry was mostly a drawer in the marine road and agricultural department during this time. It is not surprising that because of this, the government has already been replaced by environmental protection and the environment. It's that simple, and all you have to do is face it, admit it, and move on from it. Now that there is a minister in the matter, everything is fine with it, we must insist that the committee is now being recommended, which is why we agree to extend it to November 15th. It was well defined in the very common committee party of the entire committee on spring days 2014 as the main opinions. Since the committee is well - versed in all these matters, I feel that if the committee simply wrote the changes to the bill, it will only improve the case. I'm going to suggest that this be done. I don't have to go over the points, it's been done here during the discussion. These are the points of the Committee since last year. It's basically, like, cot. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, came in, the public rights, and the points facing him. It's a cautionary rule that needs careful consideration, and I'm not going to go into it materially, so I'm not going to slow down with it. However, I would like to direct interested persons to review the environmental and transport committees' opinions from that in the spring Summit 2014 because all of these key issues are presented in addition to interesting information. Outside the public rights and precautions, there are regulations for special protection. There were new recommendations in the 2013 Legislation Act, and this is a delay in the execution of values, i.e. new recommendations in the peace-enforcement organization, peace and protection that were expected for a total nature mine. Then I'm going to name outbacks and alien species. It also states in this committee that the findings of the Committee are that the law should not be canceled in its entirety. The committee felt that it would have to be based on this existing work and the entire concept of which it rests and lays the law. Based on these views, the changes will be gone and in an effort to make the most of the peace. Of course, 100% will never be happy, but we're here trying to approach it as much as we can and the will of the committee still stands. At the same time, I plan to reiterate that, of course, it is clear to us that we will be at this job and not let an entire year go by again without the fact that there will be no time for this. I suggest that we just consider that the Committee itself carries the bill instead of a minister. To these words, I would like to finally say that we in the government stand remain ready to contribute to the success of these legislations and to stand as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u41	A respectable president. I support this bill of the General and Education Committee. On the other hand, I wanted to inform the council that where this is being met with certain indications, which came from the European Union's Union on the change of donations to the local branch funds, which are about to provide housing reserves, I'm likely to be continuing to bring a bill here that enables a reserve of housing funds to walk on because there are still a few rural communities in trouble with social deposit stores and have applications in it. If he doesn't come directly into the fund from the Icelandic local Union, we're looking at the possibility that he will walk on his own money so that it can be completed the work given to the underprivileged housing. I believe it is the right thing to do in the way the committee suggests. The committee has informed us about the matter, and then we will see to it how we can achieve this through the fall of our new budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u42	A respectable president. Following a successful resolution to make changes to certain aspects of nature protection law at the last legislation, i.e. Last winter, we thought that the preparation work being done on the committee would be rapid and effective. The failure to do so was disappointing. The environment was set aside by the government until the end of the year. Since the minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir took up the office, it may be understandable that men have not been able to do this sooner. We will be ready to do this quickly and carefully so that we can reach this conclusion by November 15 of this magazine. Still, I would have felt better that the law had only been allowed to go into effect, and later people would have worked with a change in them. So we're going to sit next to this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u43	A respectable president. It's getting very urgent to put in modern nature protection laws. Nature is desperate to see that natural protection laws will be updated in Iceland. This suggests that rather than delay the implementation of nature protection laws, No. 60/2013, to January 1, 2016, time will be used for November 15, 2015, according to the minister's adjusted proposal. We believe that adjustment is an improvement. Still, as noted in the case of the day, we are sitting by. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, but he believes that there is full opportunity to use his time well. We would have considered nature protection laws, No. 60/2013, go for it. They would have gone into effect tomorrow, and there would have been a festival in town if it had been. However, we do not make comments on these cases, as they are part of Congress negotiations and, of course, expect that time will be well used, since the natural nature of Iceland can no longer wait. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u44	A respectable president. It would have been right for the current government party to leave the laws on nature protection, No. 60/2013, enter when they were supposed to take effect and use the terms of the average season that is now part of the process for the change in terms of the changes that the management groups would naturally make in nature protection laws. It was a fine job that was done during the last terms, took a long time, and included a very important improvement in 1999 legislation. That was totally unfounded of the highest. Government to issue a declaration that she was going to undo the law, as it was then said. Now, this law is again suspended, and actually a built-in time frame which sets up both the government and the environment and the transport committee a very narrow frame to win the case. How important it is, then, that we arrive early in the fall!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u45	A respectable president. I have to admit that word. paritaprevir Sadly, Róbert Marshallur's view that we are cut short of time is a sign that the committee must work very quickly and safely, and the conversation needs to be done sooner. I would have chosen a longer time, so I can be honest, but I respect the timeliness that were reached, and the situation emphasized a great deal. I'd like to say, though, that there have been some things about nature protection, but the information on the Committee was that the law was simply so many defects, not just material but technologically, that involved almost every law. I'm thinking that if the law had come true, all the good work done on the Environment Committee and under the stjórn of the Mörður Year Son, the former senator, would have been destroyed. [[The president calls.]] We certainly do not want to see that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-139.u46	Mr. President. It's my opinion and my opinion to work anyway. The Environmental and Transport Committee at the previous council has found that differences were much smaller than those previously considered on nature protection laws. The discussion led to the end of the day. However, the Environment and Resource Minister suggested that the legislation be reassigned, while the work of the Committee showed that there was much less conflict. I say for myself that I would have chosen that these laws would not have to be postponed once again, but I stress that this legal environment needs to be updated. If the braces are well kept, it should be easy to finish this work at the scheduled time so that Icelanders will have natural protection laws that are consistent with the present. There is a great need for this.
