ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u1	By letter, dated May 8, the president has requested this, according to the 8th stanzas of Figure 1. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, are reporting on the report of the National Reconnaissance on export help and land development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u2	V.E.G. President. Kristján Bragason, director of the Norse Association of hotels and restaurants, recently informed the State Radio that the salary of workers in Denmark was much higher than in Iceland. Is there anything important about it? Yes, it seems very remarkable, and indeed very sad for the simple reason that Iceland is like Denmark developed a country, and Iceland has natural resources that yield at a cost of tens and even hundreds of billions of dollars. Every year. Danes have no such resources. Yet, workers in that country live in a much better standard of living than do workers in Iceland. Why the hell is this? I think a part of the explanation is made very clear these days in the much discussion that asks how we should use the macroil stock and how to divide the profits that the nation's property can produce. You see, the Icelandic government has done a great deal of damage to the public in ensuring natural and reasonable interest in the natural resources he has. If defined, then the bill that has now been submitted to the mastery of macrotic affairs has no interest in changing any of it to the present government. I think another important reason why the ideals of workers in this country are far worse than Denmark is because we've wasted way too much time and far too much human energy in a nonstop argument, and we've been unstopped over a considerable amount of time. Of course, doing so has brought us nothing but boringness and more divisiveness. I don't think there's any leaning here, although I claim that the government that is now beating all the former governments of Iceland is about the evil sport of promoting divisions and conflicts. V.E.G. President. The Matthías Jochumsson's son encouraged his fellow Israelites 117 years ago with these words: ◯... sends out into sixty deep / divisive hell! Is it not about time for us here in this room and the whole nation to apply the counsel of the poet? That's what I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u3	A respectable president. I'm sorry that the head of the Independence Party, the highest. A financial minister of Bjarni Benediktsson should not take better than it were, in fact, testifying in the outspoken hand of many of the leaders of the government opposition in today's troubled debates. Then there is a very special reason to worry about it, and it is becoming an independent financial problem that the financial secretary believes that the recovery has become too much in Iceland and to the highest degree. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's finance minister allows himself to speak of tens of thousands of Icelanders as if they were not paying taxes to the community. That's a reason to attract the highest attention. As a minister of finance, tens of thousands of Icelanders, including The country's older, poor people, and low-payers are in terms of about 200 of yours. K. or just past. In that case, it is certainly a long way from being too great. Many of these people have long ago given up their taxes and duties to the community, even though they do not pay taxes at the moment. Similarly, students who temporarily leave nothing in a government fund, but they will be able to do so much more seriously in their working years. It is of vital importance that we add to the equality in the community to the benefit of all of us. That's a reason to attract the highest attention. The secretary of finance for the study of children's poverty shows that we do much less by moving money between income groups into our taxes than we do in other countries. This is not because we overdo too much of earning money through the tax system, but we certainly do too little of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to increase it in order to reduce the poverty of children in Iceland and the well-being that's elsewhere in the North. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u4	A respectable president. Our ancestors maintained a variety of policies that today were considered barbarism, such as official racism and legal slavery. I think that future generations will look to us and feel the same but for other reasons. I was recently approached by three people who are confronted with being sent out from the country on the basis of the Order of Dublin. They are still awaiting the decision of the Supreme Court, but even if they are successful there, they will face a difficult battle with their material treatment, with few reasons for optimism rather than for others in their position. One of them is an electrician, another manager, and a third teacher. Everyone has the common desire to be here, live, and work. Note that they do not work, we have somehow concluded that population growth is negative to the labour market, which is, of course, nonsense. Ideas to reform the laws of foreigners have appeared and will appear, yet we always act as if we can really do nothing for refugees, there are so many, or what it is. Yes, a respectable president, we can let them stay and work here, not all but a few. It is fundamental that we take their case for physical treatment and that we simply say yes after physical treatment. A respectable president. Economic systems are little more than a collection of people, the more people here enjoy freedom and the future, the better for all of us. When we save in the affairs of immigrants and refugees, we save in the most important quality of life that living people can enjoy, a quality of life such as freedom and the future. Much of these may be purchased, even in Iceland. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u5	Mr. President. In recent years, the happy development has become an increase in the proportion of graduates from high school, even in times of crisis. This was not the case because governments, employees, and schools worked hard to keep the high schools open and provide more people with room to complete school while unemployment went up, and this assignment was called a working course. I think it'll be interesting to see how this trend is going to go on, especially when you hear about it across the country that there's a chance you can combine a lot of high school. I asked you a question to the highest level. Less than a month ago, a minister of education who has not won the time to comment, and this also includes requests for special discussions on high school matters, both shortened studies in high school, and a united school. Because it's not quite natural, Mr. President, that the senators heard of the planned union between the high school at Hafnarfjörður and the Technologies through the press; and the Hafnarfjörður authorities also seem to hear of this unification through the media. I also make a serious question mark when I'm traveling through the country and hear in the oracle that the possibility of uniting a variety of schools across the country, the High School of Northern England, and the High School of Education at Isafjordur, should be merged at the Grinch School of Education, the University of Education, or the High School of Education at Akureyri, or the High School of High School in Húsavík. There's a lot of discussion going on around here. U.S. government officials are asking for reports and members of Congress are asking for the highest authority. A minister of news, which will not be answered this week, but I would have liked to have received this report very well. Of course, it's a serious matter, Mr. President, if you are making direct decisions on the national educational institutions that can reduce high school costs without being discussed or introduced here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u6	A respectable president. No one is overlooked when conflict marks the loss of politics. No matter where you come from, people worry about it. Of course, we're involved in politics, but I think we also have to face the fact that the community deal we live in is defective. The Constitution and the rules it's not going to work. We saw in winter that the government was unable to present proposals for future fishing management because there was no provision for national property on resources. And here is a macrollar bill, which is overgrows our sense of justice because there is no respect for the basic right to national property on common resources in that bill. We're going to talk about the government's insurmountability in a frame plan. This case also reminds us of the importance of a constitution as an environmental directive. Then, in the 21st century, we see debates about how many people have to sign the challenge to be referred to national matters, showing how different it is in the 21st century that democracy does not have clear rules about how the common people can choose to take sides with them. We have, a respectable president, a window for the next year to transform all these features into solidarity here at the General Assembly. And how important it is to remind us that these weeks take the crucial step toward meeting these changes! The declarations of the applicant enterprise here in the winter suggest that there are 2/3 more major members here at the General Assembly for the National Resources Act. [[The president calls.]] There is no need to use a window to change the constitution. It is important to keep the cards well in place in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u7	Mr. President. That's enough, that's enough, and she's singing Ágústa Eva Erlendsdóttir in the role of Elsa in the popular children's film Frozen. And it's not just singing from her and the children of this country, it's making more and more Icelanders say those words. This is enough, say the employees of this country, who tens of them work together to fight for better terms and justice, and this is enough, say too many Icelanders every day who choose to move to other countries in search of improvement. And the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics just doesn't understand anything about it. Many people have been observed, and now last yesterday in this hall, in unsubstantiated question time, that he just doesn't understand where we're headed. Yesterday, he insisted that there was no room for internal conflict on the grounds of a workforce that is proposed and that calls for calmness and reason on the part of employees. He calls for calmness of mind on the part of the employee and does nothing else to solve the issues. Already the highest. After the nation's sense of justice has been violated in many ways during the past two years, a government is completely secure. I don't need to list here all the measures that have brought tens of billions of dollars to the most successful people who would have been able to use welfare, to improve transportation, or to repay debt. I don't need to mention here a violation of agreement with the labour market on long-term non-employment rights, an increase in the pay for those who need health care care or the intended delivery of the nation's resources on silverware to a few selected people. That's what everyone knows and that's what they're about. Enough is enough, the requirement is equal and justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u8	V.E.G. President. Recently, the surgeon general's assessment of the Children and Youth Department of the Land Hospital, or BUGL, as we call it the Department of Daily Speech. The aim of the assessment was to examine the safety and quality of selected services in order to provide benefits. There were many factors to be taken into account, e.g. for services, quality, security, human resources, and housing. BUGL, who I'm going to allow me to call the Agency in the speech, has within its ranks very well - qualified and ambitious staff who are doing their job professionally, but the report showed that waiting for the diagnosis is up to 18 months. This is not a new problem, and this is not something that's happening first. After working in school and with children and teenagers for many years, I know that this is a problem that has lasted here for many years. But we will react, and we will be delighted to see that the government has given in regards to the health of the last budget and has confirmed it in various aspects by a surgeon. But it is important that we increase our quality of life in this category because we can see that if we show up and help those who are in trouble sooner than later, it will bring about an increase in the quality of life for the individual, resulting in the ability to get to school sooner, sooner into a job market, and earlier participation in all daily activities and daily life. It's very practical in spite of the need for us to raise our budget right now, it's practical for the future. This analysis shows that the pressure is intense, that there are too few staff in the department, that these are not stress - stoppings, but they last the pressure all year round. So we must respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u9	Mr. President. Icelanders are now facing one of the most challenging challenges they have ever faced, which is a disposal of currency. Már Guðmundsson said that there needs to be a good time because there's only one bullet in the gun. It so happens that this opportunity has been open for almost a year. Yet nothing has happened. At one time, the first government created an ideal battle position for Iceland to tackle demands to rub down the crown property, which is essential for the decommission. This she did by coming through the post-finishing markets in a night's law, which locked up all the farms. Everyone expected a new government to go on the job of using these tools to bring down the crown, but nothing happened. This was explained in a recent report published by two experts, Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson and Dr. Hersir Sigurgeirsson last week. It stated that this delay was due to the fact that within the government, there was a conflict between government leaders on a so - called failure route, the ultimate route. The prime minister wanted to leave, but he was considered by specialists to be dangerous and able to cross Iceland a position similar to that of Argentina against the vulture funds. The authors argue that this has led to at least loss. 1 year. It may be wondered, " What did this conflict between government leaders cost an Icelandic community? ' Then I refer to the fact that about 17 months ago, the Management Board published a report in which the cost was calculated, and it was found that in one year the currency head of an Icelandic company cost 80 billion dollars. That's what we're working on. Prime Minister has claimed an Icelandic community. [[The president calls.]] For this reason, Mr President, an animal would kill Sigmundur all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u10	V.E.G. President. I'm going to quote the introduction of the event manager of an explosion last Sunday, pointing to the employment agency's advertisements: ▪ The invitation is assistance to the Icelanders who want to leave the year of their lives. People are encouraged to look for a better society, a more balanced society. We're losing out on a huge, flashy group of people who don't get into this mess anymore. True, a dark picture is drawn up. A respectable president. I've been discussing principles and economics before, how we handle and interpret even the facts, you can call economists. Among other things, the Office of Habitat reports that by this year's first quarter, the population had increased by 700, of which 290 people moved to the country out of the way. That is in harmony with the growing number of years, both born beyond the dead and displaced, about 8,000. There's a hint there's something here to pick up. There is a trade here, and more is involved here, and more is involved in the trade program for improved terms. The conductor called for us to listen, to praise him. There is a stability we want to maintain. Here is an equality, and there is more to change, so there is an opportunity to improve the standard of living and to increase the equation. The other thing is, hopefully, people will still have people, and they with all due respect for all the circumstances in which they live, and reasons for going outside, the opportunity to obtain knowledge and employment beyond the rocks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to make a subject of what we finished the program on here yesterday, i.e. building growth and how we can strengthen it in some way. We discussed, among other things, the link between markets and the way people can be helped to study. Earlier, it was at the highest level. Education minister seems to be consistent in the process of uniting high school without the changing education policy that is involved in the procedure being set up here for the council. We discussed this quite a bit with the budget, and for good reason, we made that comment. The minister intends to unite schools of large areas just because they are in the same district, it seems to be, as presented here by high school in the West and in the South Pacific Ocean. What does that mean? That means loss of research and technical education. This means, in effect, that the study will be moved and cut down on either site, likely in the West, restricting the opportunity of residents living there to pursue education and especially along with work, such as the breakdown of 25 years of age and older and continuing to do so in view of the work being done. We have called for a structure to be real, not some vocabulary that is being taken from the Allied symposium. It's not a real policy to move one piece of an institution somewhere to the shore, and cut as hard as that. Because what does school harmony mean? It means a decrease in academics. That's exactly what it is and that's it. It means fewer opportunities for study and the diversity of study. [[The president calls.]] The minister must come to the council hall and deliver what he is doing behind the scenes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u12	Mr. President. It was a well-explored report presented to us on a work board this morning that showed the transfer of resources between parts of 1993 and 2013 and the development of calculus in those years. Although one thought that he had observed these matters quite well over the years, living in a land in a TV lock, one was shocked to see the tremendous changes that have occurred in those years, and the integration of sources with a related disorder in certain settlements. True, this has been the means for building strong areas in the southwest corner, in the Eyjafjörður, and in certain places in the East, when the ocean fish arrived, but this has also meant a tremendous loss of the area, the migration of these areas, and the loss of income and property. You try to justify this by saying that it's only technology, efficiency, and technology, but it's not just that. It is government government control with unfunded expedients in the fishing system we live in. I say, isn't there any possibility that money will work together? Yes, I believe it is. Today, there are a small number of individuals, large fishing companies, who herded their money for themselves. And is it certain that they will again share him with them in a righteous way? No, I don't think it is. When there was much more money on the market, it was far more likely to go into the community. Now you're gonna play the same game with the mackerel bill. [[The president calls.]] And take two: I say no, thank you. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u13	A respectable president. We've been over the past few days at work. It's no wonder she's discussed here. However, little has been said about the way the general council is going to try to solve the work - market issue. In my mind there are two kinds of differences, one of which is the general labour market at the company of the industry for a higher salary, the other is BHM representatives who want higher pay and are in combat with the state. Yet, it is mentioned every day that ministers or governments should enter the matter in one way or another. At the same time, we read in newspapers that an offer has come from the State. We don't know what they are about, with possible tax change and a potential rise in personality discounts, something we all know from the discussion when there's trouble in the labour market. Yet we stand here, shouting out loud that some people in the government and so on. The secretary of finance will be here and will belittle the people of the country. A respectable president. I don't feel that this discussion is going to solve anything. First of all, the Generals are not really in the process of solving labour issues. We can get there, do the job, or do it ourselves, proclaiming the basic returns to changing the tax system or an increase in personality discounts. But we do not stand here speaking of all things that are impossible when we have so far, whether government or government officials, not to bring anything or anything but to talk about equality and justice. [[The president calls.]] Those words are true, but they do not apply directly to contracts from councilmen to labor leaders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to tell a United States Congress on aging and health that I went to the Cape of Hornfjord last week, a remarkable and wonderful campaign that the Cape government took for and received a number of important lectures in the area. Among them was the highest. Kristján Þór Júlíusson, a health minister who discussed the status of aging in the country and went over it with great zeal. There, too, Sólfríður Guðmundsdóttir's Sunnidótttir, Shilk Policy, Health, who discussed the need for the elderly to have a choice of services from health carelessness, that should be based on individual strengths, improved quality of life by walking and society in the natural world to the health and better life of the country. There, too, was a former football player named Guðlaugsson Gudlsson, who discussed successful aging with a progressive motion to improve his own ability to do activities of daily life beyond all ages. [[Up front.]] It was also remarkable. He's been doing research, has had 120 people in two groups, studied them, and introduced them to the meeting, that was a big deal. There was also Dr. Jón Eyjólfur Jónsson, who discussed our own responsibility for life and for our family who are being involved in the daily needs of older citizens, not always demanding that the system be behind us. They encouraged the best. A health minister and a conquistador to bring in less money in the building of a living home with concrete. The elderly should be built on physical well - being. I can agree with so many things that were said at this conference, many very good things, and thank you for your interest in this matter. I say again and again that we, fine senators in this hall, will be judged by the way we live a carefree life night for the elderly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u15	Mr. President. I was now thinking of talking about the council's work here, under this part of the program, for a change. I guess it's Tuesday, May 12 today, and some scholars say that there are still eight regular meeting days according to the work plan. Our problem, as he sees me, is that the land is without control, i.e. The government's out of control. There is no task management, and this is evident, among other things, by the seizing of matters, between fish, housing, or transport programs, which do not appear to be in the second consecutive year, or by the resolution of a sea chief minister for the treatment of fishing warrants in the side - to - side administrations of the food system. Other bills may get in here but die so painfully if not in 1st. ... ona committee, like the natural pass, and probably now Bankers. This speaks of conditions in the administrative home. Nevertheless, as far as the council is concerned, there is a substantial harvest left of the winter commission, probably between 20 and 30 basics, and political issues are now ready for 2nd. Based on a discussion of a committee or a second discussion, many of them in a position of great solidarity, perhaps some warnings but a common committee opinion. This indicates that the most controversial explosives in winter are on schedule, with the hands on the bow. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son about the use of power against a frame plan. As we now need more fighting, a respectable president. The government has no work, and there is little we can do about it, at least for government opposers, but the council could, in their jobs and by their programs, show that we are doing our work here. During the following days, we could take 20 to 30 basics and make them a great deal of approval instead of throwing everything in the hands of the Generals, which also makes the current program of the Council sadly, the President, with a responsibility to govern the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u16	A respectable president. People here speak of such things as the divisive spirit, that we have to work in the North countries - and that is the nature of the situation in different ways. But why, if people now want to work together as men say, at least by word, do we not see what is being done when it comes to bullies in the North countries, how do we compare with what's going on here? It would be interesting to know how many labor conflicts in the North countries have been solved by the National Congress. Now, the media have done quite well on this, reviewing the models that are going on in the countries we want to compare with. I think it would be fine if you were. The welfare committee would simply cross it and compare it with the current situation. I'd love to. Government council members covered where labor disputes are solved at the Assembly Hall. In which lands is this? [[Up front.]] Because people are talking about priorities and how we're going to work here: I miss it - when a report from a major surgeon says that the safety of patients is threatened on the basis of the current situation, that the safety of patients is threatened - not to hear a single member of Congress talk about it. I suggest that there is a priority at what is right now. The welfare committee to review that matter. I call attention to the fact that here comes a surgeon who says the safety of patients is being threatened. We can have all the opinions about the situation in the dress code and the like, but this must be a priority. Hv. The welfare committee to monitor these issues should have the priority of reviewing the matter, since we must not threaten the safety of patients. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u17	As we read at a meeting yesterday, the president arrived yesterday's program proposal, as follows: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. The 77th verse for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. Electrical law (systemistical programme, EEA rules), Industrial and Business Directoring, 305 suit, 1005. It's called "System" on deck. 1091 and 1226, respectively. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 3. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, the management of industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392 committees on deck. 973 and 986, leading committees on deck. 1228, continuation of the second. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u18	Mr. President. Just as it is in terms of this program under the norm - if you can't vote for it at the meeting where it is submitted, it is made clearly in the 77th chapter of Congress. Parliamentary convention: I don't see any conclusions, cr. 78. g., as the proposal arises, a vote for the proposal should be adopted at the start of the next meeting. There are three private members of Congress who make the suggestion. Perhaps that would have been if they had first wanted to discuss the activities of the council now, that part of the program, but not to suggest at the beginning of the meeting as a Congress law would have been talking to the movers of the proposal, asking if there was anything wrong with it. I'm sure we'd all agree with that. V.E.G. However, the president of the Generals sent a letter to members of the council, and because he did not get objections, he concluded that it was approved. This is very important because it is private members of Congress who have the authority to submit such a new program of change... not to let the council members control it. [[The president calls.]] It's just the way it is, we're gonna keep it together, and we're gonna do it in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u19	A respectable president. So here we have, sounds like everything, a council just got broken. This proposal was to be made here at the beginning of a meeting. I want an explanation from the highest. A president explains why this was not done. You can't tell us, if the motioner's messengers, that it was sent e - mail to the heads of Congress because this is not enough for us when we were not consulted. Congress officials believe that the matter is in our hands and that the decision and consultation are in the hands of those who make the suggestion. So it wasn't in this case, and I have to say exactly as it is that I find it very bad that if the senators make such a suggestion, which doesn't happen often, it's done to her, just completely by practicality. At the beginning of a conference it will be if you don't trust yourself to do this as soon as it is served. I want to explain why it wasn't done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u20	The president sought a discussion with members of the council to see if comments would be made at the beginning of a meeting after a discussion with the council was completed. There would have been no trouble for the president, if any comments had been made, to procrastinate it and make this vote before discussing the activities of the council. The president, however, did not get any comments on this, so he concluded that it was done in full agreement with members of the council. It is unusual that when looking for consultation, this will be done by members of the council. For the president, it was only to try to ensure that the discussions on the matter of the council would be of full interest, and nothing else was involved. On the other hand, the president is sorry if it happened. Congress officials have something to consider, but they feel that it is in accordance with the Congress to do this in a way that the president decided to agree with members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u21	A respectable president. Of course, in this case it would have been reasonable for a president to contact the council members and the members of the council. It's like, in what we do here, you can't always sit over your e-mail and watch him. The average number of e - mails a person uses every hour, so it may be a little difficult to observe and respond to. I would have thought it normal, since it was supposed to be taken out of the council here, postponing a vote and not doing it at the beginning of a meeting, that both the council officials had been contacted on the phone to ensure that there was a agreement to do this in this way. It wasn't, unfortunately, in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u22	Mr. President. Senators do not seem quite certain of what they are paying votes, but that is, the frame is not on today's schedule, so men can see it. The reason is very clear, on page 22. 85 in the McKinsey report on Iceland are spoken of as an exhilarating cost and the need to step in promoting employment; it is referred to as the importance of reconciliation between policy measures, including energy. This is the other way around. It's going in the other direction. It's not at all right. It's expensive for society to do that way, it's unprofessional to do it that way. Laws are not being violated, but they are at least in violation of law. If we're going to change the priming classes, according to the framework laws, we're going to do it first by a professional process performed in a Senate resolution and it's submitted. But that's a very good contribution. þm. Jón Gunnarson to provide a number of changes in further activation options, five more, which have not been in this professional process. [[The president calls.]] It's unprofessional, it's unscrupulous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u23	A respectable president. With this program's agreement, we can refer to the support of a careful and professional practice when it comes to basic decisions about living together protection and use of natural areas. This is an important matter of interest to us. This is also an important economic issue. It is important not to delay necessary research on the needs of better research, but it is also important to maintain a proper course of action. Here, the government is suggesting that a complete inquisitive primacy be introduced into a proposal made around the Inhibulatory Syndrome that has been investigated in its context. This is just as crazy as this is as we would if we were to face the fact that the government was trying to activate Gold Falls. I strongly encourage members of Congress to support this program's proposal and so vote by saying that there is a system and some rule and by the law that applies to this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u24	A respectable president. Here we vote for a program proposal that requires that a matter containing a very controversial change form from the top of the management section be reactivated more frequently. This adjustment is in order to bring the dissension into the chamber, to show it just to us, to come right into the grip of some of the most difficult issues that this nation has ever had. By rejecting this program, the main thing is to make a conscious decision to allow Congress jobs to be ill - wise and boring - hopefully objective, they will be - a controversy, but it is a big matter of the heart in which we make decisions to operate in Iceland. This has been the subject of legislation. Those who want to activate more may make a special suggestion here in accordance with the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They do not present it as a modification form for discussions of the synopsis proposal. [[The president calls.]] For God's sake, don't put the matter on the schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u25	A respectable president. This suggests that there will be a schedule off the program for the meeting today. It is not by chance that the proposal is presented. In general, we have made good choices here to agree on the program. We have attended a meeting of the council groups and have consulted with the chairman of the Council on the progress of the discussion here on the program of the council. This is contrary to the practice that it appears to be merely to set up the biggest conflict of this terms. [[Up front.]] It is unwise to do so, and the government is to show it, and unfortunately, the prerogative of the council is to help maintain distrust and strife in this society. A respectable president. It is unwise, and I suggest that we support the program proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u26	A respectable president. Taking this matter on the program in the manner in which this is being done is taking two of the highest levels of activity. Minister to absolute insignia, on the one hand, the highest. Environment and resource minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir and the Sigurður Jóhannsson, now the advanced environmental and resource minister. Both these ministers have said in this chair that the project administration should be allowed to do its work as per law. What is being considered here is not that. The project is being removed from the project and decided to allow political whims to control the decision on resource use. In this administrative business, the forwarding party is so under attack that he cannot fulfill the words of two of the highest authorities. Minister? Is he that bad? A respectable president. The way we act at the High Council is important. It's not like this, with all this bullying, as this government has become world famous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u27	A respectable president. The country is on fire in battles, but instead of working on reconciliation at the Council, it would seem that the greater part of the government would prefer to set up a great issue. Tens of thousands of Icelanders are calling for a political leader to improve the country's terms, but the greater part just wants to play a sandbox game about an entirely premature activation proposal. A respectable president. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u28	A respectable president. The timing of setting this issue on the program is preposterous. Everyone in this room knows and has been explained that there is much disagreement on this subject, i.e. the activation option, especially to the five-fold activation option on the part of the The head of the trade board, Jón Gunnarsson's son. Now we're facing the biggest fight here for decades. We need to discuss the circumstances that we may need to do. paritaprevir Gulliful Þór Þórðarson came in earlier, if I understood him correctly, there are some things we need to discuss, e.g. how we're gonna get over the fight, not just now, but in the future. We need to discuss these matters. This requires space, and there can be no room for this when this is thrown into the council at this point. Away from our view of specific activations, this is irresponsible, completely irresponsible toward the council, to both parties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u29	Mr. President. It does not matter how governments handle much more. These governments have much more, and they should associate humbly with the vast majority of authority, another in this case, and so many others in which brutality is practiced and said I can, I can afford. That's the way to think, I'm sorry. Maybe someday it's gonna come back to you. This controversial matter is being misdirected to the program here and now to the extent of a professional process. And you don't trust an assignment to do this job, the highest. Environment Minister? It is amazing how humans associate with power and think that this can be done without giving rise to objections in society. Of course it does. [[Up front.]] We are to show respect for the environment to be advocates of it, not so contrary to all professional processes. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're here to take this matter off. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u30	A respectable president. Those who observe this discussion about the votes must ask themselves: " Why is it impossible for those who want to drive the discussion through here? On the contrary, why is there no support for the need to finish this matter? Why are people willing to engage in hard conflict here in the hall on this matter? Why are they ready to make war in this town? There must be some argument behind such conduct, for some reason. Is it true that only those who are paying attention to the discussion can be helped to explain this to others who are in charge? Is it not so that things are determined in democracies, that men argue and support their language? What is it that works hard? [[Up front.]] Aren't they going to talk about anything? [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. paritaprevir Friðjón Gunnarsson, of course, who is now kalla as Flanderson Gunnsson, is coming on the platform and explaining the evidence that... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's just a bunch of grave silence in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u31	Mr. President. It's kind of remarkable, and I'll agree with what. The senator who spoke last, why don't the senators come here and explain the reason for the urgency of this matter, so controversial. Not everyone reads the nine - page commission, and this is a reason to explain why it is the most urgent issue of the council in the light of the situation here. There are all members of Congress in this room who are aware that this is the opening up of the Senate, that's for sure. That's what we've said, and we're on it. That's the way it is. But not that it makes a huge difference because there are very few cases here, unfortunately. I'm asking, "Where is the bill on execution that was supposed to come only in the next few days?" It's been eight days. It is designed to take up a discussion about public finances, a huge bill. When shall we discuss these matters, noble President? When are matters to be brought up that are truly important and do not cause controversy, and because everything is up here? I'm asking the highest. Environment Ministers quoted earlier: Is she okay with this? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would like her to come here and explain if she was okay with this procedure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u32	A respectable president. I come up here to talk about the President's conference board in the very narrow sense of that word. You have to state clearly what people are talking about. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson came up earlier to talk about the President's conference board, a special staff and a critical group of presidents in the conference board. Then other senators came and spoke to them. V.E.G. The president chose to call that team a vote. That wasn't a vote. When I was going to come up here and explain my vote, it was thought by a president that I had already done so. At that time, I was having a discussion about the vote. We have to get these guys straight. It's impossible to have this vagueness. And as long as we're talking about the conference board it's also got to be said that this proposal was to be made at the beginning of the conference, that's what the Senate says, so there's a great deal here on this whole. That's very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u33	President heard. Ólafsson After the president had read the motion we were voting on, he asked for it. A senator would be asking for the word for the vote. The president was not concerned, so the senator had been asking for the word for the President's conference manager, and the president had already read the matter. The President is very sorry about what happened. Senators have misunderstood. The president also announced earlier when individual senators first expressed themselves in votes that it was a matter of speaking under the terms of the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u34	A respectable president. I'm still not comfortable with how much I'm doing. The president took matters earlier on the matter of votes for this program proposal. It says in the Senate that if you can't get it up immediately, it'll be done at the start of the next meeting, and then it must be so, then you can't assess it somehow differently, and you can just drive it between the attendees. It's not like that. I have to say exactly as it is, most respectable president, that on this point there's a releaser. This is not the way humans treat the Senate, and there is a greater explanation. The president came along because it's not okay. As members of Parliament who decide to make a suggestion for a change in schedule, which now does not happen every day in these sales, we must assume at the same time that the Conventional Act on the Treatment of Such Argument is being followed. Or else I must say, Mr President of honour, that the council is not well controlled if men cannot trust the law of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u35	It was, of course, church law. On the other hand, it's so like everybody's dog. Councilmen know that when a consultation is made on matters related to the daily administration of the council, it usually goes through members of the council. For a president, what he said earlier was to ask a discussion about the activities of the council and then to have the vote. There was no neglect in giving the vote before discussing the work of the council. However, after consulting members of the council and no comment was made, the president simply viewed this arrangement as an agreement, but it is too sad if it has not been so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u36	Mr. President. As has been clear in our conversations, we have the highest. The President of the Generals and the conferences with the members of the Parliament has a totalitarian authority to judge how to interpret the terms of Congress, a law on the rules of the plays we follow here at the council. When humans have such totalitarian powers, they must be very careful about how they use it. It is very clear in the law, and I as a private senator must call on it if I propose a program with other private members that then the president cannot, with the silent approval of members of the council, decide that it should be taken not as the law of Congress immediately on the program at the beginning of a meeting, but that it should be delayed. I'm not comfortable with this interpretation by a man who has absolute authority to interpret the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u37	A respectable president. I think this part of the program reflects the situation that has come up at the council that the President's Board of Meetings is under attack. This is not only about the understanding or lack of consultation that has taken place in the leading up to the meeting on the program and other aspects of the progress of this meeting, which is now under way. I want to say to the highest. President, member of Congress, that if it ever comes to the President's conference board, it is under the circumstances that we are entering right now. I give the highest advice. With great kindness and respect, the president is listening to the urge to make peace in the council between government opposition and government interests before further members of Congress, because what we are going to do now is war, there is war in this house, there is war in the community. It does not bring success, either for a council or for a nation, that a respectable president does not see how things turn out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u38	A respectable president. In this matter, how important it is that there are rules and regulations that explain what is on the program, that contagion grates are not being used to set matters straight. I was quite clear that I was discussing the President's conference board when I first came up earlier and thought that I had the right to give a speech about the vote and then a vote. It's my right to do according to the Senate. I'll be very disappointed if this is to be the case, a respectable president, because it's very important that the president works for both smaller and greater parts and that we can have a trusted president in these matters. So I express great disappointment with this meeting management. It's very important that there's a good thing to do here. There's no way that the remains of a layer of work that identifies the work force on the case are covered with the President's meeting board as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u39	President wants to know what. A senator and another man. Councilmen that this was not trying to resort to prudence, as the president knows from his old and long experience that such action will take revenge on himself and the council as a whole. Therefore, only the president wants to apply the rules, regulations, and other rules we support. If there's been some misunderstanding, it's not that President was intent on trying to bring up any senator with one thing or anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u40	A respectable president. I'm not going to count on what's been said here several times. I just want to keep it in order for me to hear it. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson called the President's Conference Board to be clear. But I find it shocking to come here in a chair and complain about the program under these circumstances because there are two huge cases that must be taken into consideration before or later; there are the activation issues, the frame, and the present debates. We are responsible not only to approach our subjects with respect but also to determine whether we will discuss matters adequately. When the frame is thrown in here, it makes it impossible for us as a senator to deal with the whimpering issues we have to do. We need to discuss how this arrangement works, how to adapt to peace, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] We can't do that with these rocks in here, that's not possible, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's irresponsible. We can't allow ourselves to work like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u41	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't think it's good for a president to pass here. He has tried his work, day and day, to honor the mood on which we base our work. If it has been a failure in one way or another, it is, but being granted that the chairman of the council, as is done here, asks which team of council members, and how members of the Parliament speak to the Supreme Court. I, with all due respect to the members of Congress, find the President uncool. A respectable president. One more thing, and that's where I'm going to make a comment to the President's conference board, and that's already why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall allows him to name some names that they do not claim to belittle or attract attention to himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u42	A respectable president. I'm kind of inclined to say that today's meeting is a failure, and it should start over. During a meeting, a Trinity has been paralysed to the point that one has rarely seen the same. I think so much of the highest. A president like what? paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. So I would like to ask, in view of the fact that this is a topic that everyone knows is an enormous issue and has been at issue in the community for decades: has the highest level. The president, with his great authority here, tried to face it? Has he inspired a meeting with the representatives of the greater part and a smaller part of this discussion to try to find out, even though there was no more, whether there are any surfaces in the matter of reconciliation? [[The president calls.]] Has any such meeting occurred or been announced? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u43	A respectable president. Of course, that the forwarding team and its environmental minister plan to destroy a environmental framework provides reason to call for the green color to be brought back by the forward group. It is certainly a false alarm to keep him in the foreground for what is being done here today. There will not be any barrier to this unquenchable subject today, after vote, and likely by day and by night. I'm the highest. For example, a president who uses the day - to - day meeting to start with the needs of the country's interest and the difficult situation in the labour market and the things that can lead to greater peace in the community and community avoiding political issues rather than to aggravate political terrorism in the environment, as this is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u44	V.E.G. President. I want to say something. Group leader of the Independence Party, talking about the fact that I don't think it's a good way for a president. I have felt that he was working hard to maintain peace here, to work along with everyone, and has done his best in doing so. So I can't agree with this, and I don't keep it to myself. I'm also very sorry to hear the words we're having here. Men turn out, names, and so forth, and I don't think sharing in it is going to hurt us in here. Certainly we are talking about conflict. We need to talk about them. As I have declared before, I am ready to listen to all the evidence and discuss the issues we will address and will do so with interest. I've learned that when the smaller part threatens, it's just as sure as the sheep are evicting all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u45	A respectable president. I think it'd have been a real pain in the ass if it had happened. paritaprevir The president of the council of the prosecutors, Egilsdóttir, would have come up here and defended his ministers in this matter. They have made it clear in this discourse that a framework and a procedure should be carried out and that the project management should take steps to do their job. [[Up front.]] What is being suggested here is quite the opposite. They're taking the tool off the project management and letting political quirks lead and tambourine bitch. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I think it's already hard. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir decides to arise here, not defend the independents who are in danger of the bullying here, but try to defend their own people, because these have been told by the senators of the parish. I must say, just as it is for me to wait to see if the words are most beautiful. Environment Minister on this matter in due course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u46	The president wants to say for this reason that the material discussion will take place here when the program begins later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to respond to a word. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir. As part of my memory, I have not been calling anyone names, I have not spoken in a material way about the subject of President's conference management, but I have called attention to the fact that we are facing two huge issues. Only one of them needs our attention here and now, that's the fight. Instead, we get this issue on our agenda to spend all our energy on because it is one of the biggest issues in Icelandic society. That's good and good, then we'll just talk about it and we'll take our time in it, but we'll do it at a different time, not while we're in a fight. That's what the whole thing is about. That's why I'm about to come up here to call this attention to the President's conference board. We need time to examine every big, urgent matter. We don't have that time if we're stuck here talking about a frame plan. So the message to us is that we should either accept whatever we do. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is planning to do something about a frame plan or accept not to talk about bullies. [[The president calls.]] Neither is okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u48	A respectable president. The work of a president is not above criticism. When members of Congress or members of Congress are offended by the President's conference board, it is their right to come up here and explain it. It's not that anyone is making an impossible decision in this way. That is how the discussion will be discussed. About the fact that I was appointing senators, I'd like to say that I'm in three places here in this hall called a communist. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, and he did not lose sleep over it. [[Up front.]] I'm not a communist. I don't know how I've come to that opinion. But the fact that I called it what? Jón Gunnarsson's senator earlier is something I don't suppose I'm gonna have to apologize to him for. I don't suppose he'll lose any sleep over it any more than I am about being called a communist. But I pray. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter apologized for offending her sense of humor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u49	A respectable president. I believe the President of the Generals is working for all of us. I think of him as ruling on matters that affect every group sitting here. I'm surprised if the head of Congress is not allowed to appear here and describe the support of Presidential work as different from that of the rest. She knows that the Ministers of the Refugee Party can protect themselves in the following discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u50	Two suggestions have been made on a committee to be cited. One's from the highest. Secretary of the budget that the case will be referred to the financier. The other suggestion is from what? 9th. That's the north side. "Bjark Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, "that the case goes to the Economic and Business Committee. The vote will be held according to a regular council order. First there will be a vote for the first suggestion, in this case a proposal from the highest level. Secretary of finance. If it is approved, the motion is not a vote. To make no difference, and the president will not be carried over because he wants to do business with the council, the president wants to make it very clear, assuming that it doesn't call for President's conference board and the following discussion, that there's now some debate about the votes, so there's nothing going to be a difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u51	A respectable president. On the other hand, this issue has to do with keeping the length of the arms between the politics and the property of the public in financial companies. There is a reason to pay particular attention to the fact that the secretary of finance does not want the matter to be handled on a financial and business committee. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, for lack of reason. A senator has been critical of the minister's ideas for bringing us back to 2007 on the petition and the privatization of the banks. Hence, he proposes that the matter be considered rather than a financial committee. It is important that the General stand up and try to protect members of the Parliament from the use of the committees in order to prevent the Congress from granting the proper repercussion, and that the committee that has taken this party may continue, although the chairman of the Committee has allowed himself to criticize the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] It will be noticed how the candidates vote in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u52	A respectable president. The bill we discuss is made materially so that we can give evidence that it will be discussed at the beginning of the discussion. The Economic and Business Committee, as well as the evidence that the bill will be discussed at what time. It's a legal committee. The minister suggests that the case be referred to. The legal committee, however, has also suggested that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee. The Matrix will decide which committee is involved in the matter. As a result, I would like to show that the directors of these two committees have discussed and agreed that each committee selected in this vote will seek a lesson from the other two weeks' notice, ensuring both committees a chance to address the case and consider it carefully, receive visitors, and introduce views toward the committee, which ensures that the Council will work this out well from all sides, how we vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u53	A respectable president. It is repeated and repeated that it is unclear why certain issues are being referred to on a particular committee. I feel that there's no reason to back up why this case should be joined by a financial committee. The only contact point with a financier is that this is part of the state's property and possible sale of these financial assets, but it is not new in this bill. This bill is not about this aspect of this law. The economic and business committee considers the issues of the banks, the affairs of the financial system, and that is what we are discussing in this bill. If it really becomes the conclusion that the matter should be joined by a financier, I think it would be reasonable to get some material support for it, and then material support for why a financial and business committee deals with banks in other ways rather than a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u54	A respectable president. I also ask for material evidence that this matter will go into trouble. It's a legal committee, but it's not in trouble. The Economic and Business Committee. The banks and the money system are the center of the economy, so you would have thought that the matter was at home. The Economic and Business Committee. It's the committee that usually deals with this sort of thing, that you understand. Like those who've spoken here before, I miss someone in the board speaking and arguing, not just explaining their position on what committee. Councilmen believe that the matter should be reasoned rather. It seems now that when we face the strange situation of wondering about the issue at home, it is a suspicion that so often we are faced with a disagreement. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonson is not trusted by the government to handle the situation. It is the suspicion that looks at you, understandably, considering that it is not entirely alone how all these matters should be handled accurately, which is normal for us to discuss here. [[The president calls.]] There is no material support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u55	A respectable president. We're in a very special position here. When the discussion of this matter began, it became clear that the representatives of the Economic and Business Committee had arranged for a talk sheet to participate in a discussion on matters they thought would be referred to for discussion, including the subject. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who described in his discussion that he had been prepared to take over the matter and here on a discussion of the vote that he is open to accepting the matter as yet. We are in the fine position, a respectable president, which, unfortunately, does not happen often here that we are simply listening to arguments by and against each committee. When the Bank Management Board was set up, there was talk about it during the night. The Economic and Business Committee. It is natural for her to consult a financial committee and anything else, i.e. That it should go directly to the budgetary committee, that it has not been convincing in any way. I think there's only releases in the council if this begins to become random, not with a reference to Congress at any given time. [[Up front.]] It is logical that the matter should be addressed to the Economic and Business Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u56	A respectable president. The government banking laws were for the treatment of a financial and business committee and all changes in that law have been discussed there. There was a agreement in its time line with the existing government opposition to ensure further separation between political power and financial institutions. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is now offering a bill that aims to eliminate this separation completely, establish a holding of financial companies in a drawer, and obtain absolute authority over the use of financial assets, otherwise reinvigorate the unhealthy political and banking systems that have been damaged by the United States for decades. It's very serious that such a bill is submitted, even more worrying. The secretary of finance will hand over the committee to discuss this. [[The president calls.]] There is a serious concern if the body of Congress is no longer sufficient to ensure that the committees are being handled according to their material.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u57	A respectable president. I've been in this conversation almost all over, and I think in a few cases, people have talked as much about something that has nothing to do with it and have tried to create something completely different, but it's about and in this matter. It's a special research project how you do it. Government senators have decided to read something quite different from what it says. I encourage those who are observing this discussion to read in terms of both the bank administration and the existing bill and whether there is anything in the big statements that are being heard here. Generals of the United States. The last time I knew, most committees were willing to take over. In this case we're talking government business, these are government property. It is suggested that the issue be settled. A legal committee and to ensure that a view will be enjoyed will come out of the question. The Economic and Business Committee. [[The president calls.]] You can't have it all better than that, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u58	A respectable president. I haven't heard all the reasons why I should take the case from a financial and business committee and move it to the budget board. That's what's being done here. The business of the Bank Office and the activities of financial companies has so far been discussed in the Economic and Business Committee, but this is a decision to deliver the case, and there's no reason why. However, we have a bill that clearly explains what is in a number of joints, together on page very comfortable. 7 and 8. I encourage members of the Parliament who have planned to vote by bringing this legal body to the budget to cover these forces because this is a series of downsurgents and that a special advisory committee of the state is to be implemented for financial administrations, etc. These are issues directly involved in the business of financial companies. Is this the subject of a financial committee and has been made in historical context? [[The president calls.]] The answer is: No. What is going on here is that a more convenient committee is being selected to send matters into order to make sure that they get through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u59	Mr. President. A financial and business committee has been covered on the bank business committee but is now to be transferred to a financial committee. While the case may be in both places, according to professional practice, there has been some kind of greater expertise in it within the Economic and Business Committee, where more has been discussed and done on these issues. The same is happening with this bill itself, i.e. They've gathered expertise in bringing the government's assets to the banks of the Banks. Just before selling these items, the management department should be transferred from the bank office to a staff at the Ministry. The evidence is savings, it's up to 1/6000 of the items being used. In other words, try to save 1/6000 but sacrifice for the professional process, which may ultimately cost much more and that is not professional. And it's not professional that we're voting on right now, trying to refer this to a financial committee, but not to a financial and business committee where Bank County's issues have been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u60	V.E.G. President. Once again, we are discussing disagreements about where to point matters. That's too bad. We thought that when the committee change was made at the time, it was quite ready. According to Congress, the Economic and Business Committee on Economics in general, Business, including banking, financial and pensions, as well as tax and customs matters. In my mind, it is quite ready for this matter to be visited by the Economic and Business Committee, not by the budget board. We can talk about a tradition that has developed. If the law is blurred or somewhat clear where the matter is to be done, we may take revenge at the General Assembly. What's tradition? The banking board started with an economic and business committee, and this has shown that changes in it have also been made to the Economic and Business Committee. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps we need to tie this down in the assembly rather than in this particular matter that we're voting on, I don't think that's a question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u61	Before President gives a what? 9th. That's the north side. "Endell Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, for example, wanted to state that her name was ignored by her hand on the list he had received and was asked to have a good look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u62	A respectable president. I'm gonna make comments about that. I struck on the table as soon as my name was mentioned as a messenger's proposal to put the case on a financial and business committee. Since then, at least five of them beat up on the table after me. I don't think it's an appropriate meeting board, a respectable president, so I'll begin to explain it. That seems to matter, at least. looks so, where the respect order of the people is here within the council. I think it's very special when you call it "Don't look towards the person." As mentioned above, there has been no evidence to support why a financial committee is selected. I feel like he needs to lie down. Bank administration's topic has been in the economy and business board all along. Why is the other road gone? That's what we need to answer. After some time, it is not possible to refer matters to committees just because they are considered to be better on some committee. We look repeatedly at a professional health committee who has so far not necessarily lived there. [[The president calls.]] This isn't making a party, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u63	Mr. President. While there is no clear evidence to point this matter to why. The legal committee, but not the Economic and Business Committee, as previously discussed, remains unreachable to the highest level. The financial and financial secretary is selecting a committee. For a discussion of these matters, it has previously been pointed out that they are at the highest level. There's more ministers in there. A legal committee or so seems to be. Three of the four members of the economy are in bed. A financial committee, but the eco-efficiency team recommended that the bank county be laid down. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, however, is opposed to the sale of an object in the Lands Bank and has an agreed convention of candidates for this, so while we are not getting a good reason for this change, the claim must be at the top. A minister is handpicking a committee to discuss the matter, but the people of the council and traditions of the council are being pushed aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u64	V.E.G. President. The rest of the legal bill is about the treatment and sale of the property of the state. I agree with what. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, we can certainly reason on the issues involved. Economic and business committees and what. The budget board. Hv. One purpose is to discuss the finances of the State and the handling of its property according to a judicial committee. This legal bill has two laws under it, the State's Bankiscation Act, No. 88/2009, and U.S. government sales legislation, No. 155/2012. As far as I can see, there's evidence for both, and I'm confident that each committee will discuss the matter and give a review, i.e. The committee that cannot be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u65	A respectable president. This was held up for an hour on the subject that is next to the council, and now the question is reinvigorated. They were called upon to cooperate with the government parties in the previous case, but they are now ignoring it and actually refuse when cooperation is available. A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. The government's opposition should begin to decide whether it is coming or going to this council. Here's a right way to settle this matter, and thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for reviewing the council creations that are so smart in this regard. The matter can be considered in both committees, better off at home with a financial committee. A financial committee has already submitted an offer that allows for a review of the case by a financial and business committee. Is it really possible that the people of the country who sit at home and watch the General Assembly of Iceland will be shocked after that day?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u66	Mr. President. No, I'm not surprised that the people of the country are a little tired and exhausted, but it's not the first time we experience it at the Council of the winter that it is suggested that there be a committee in which they don't necessarily belong. True, there is often evidence that there may be more than one committee at home than what has happened during the winter council is that something is suggested, and then there is no response to the argument that the matter can go to another committee. We are going to discuss the issues of a frame plan which were very convincing earlier to be at home on the Environment Committee. Still, they were run into a professional committee. We can go over the reservations. There was very convincing evidence that the matter was best at home with the environmental planning committee, but it is still being sent to the General and Education Committee. Now that we are discussing Bank County, there are compelling reasons why the matter was at home. A financial committee, however, is assigned to a financial committee. It seems that there has always been an advance decision, and there are some who are not prepared to reason on this. [[The president calls.]] I'm concerned that the council doesn't have a clear line in these matters, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u67	A respectable president. I come here only to let it be mentioned because of words. paritaprevir Oddný G. My Harðardóttir's hard work that the secretary of finance is choosing a committee that would be more favorable to him if he wanted to. A business committee also serves as three representatives of the Independence Party in exactly the same manner as when. A legal committee is representing the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u68	A respectable president. This bill is about the government's ownership policy on financial projects. This bill is about shutting down the Bank County. It's a treatment. This bill is about setting up a advisory committee to decide who will be in the government on behalf of the State. This bill is largely about the business of financial companies. Therefore, it belongs better to a Economic and Business Committee where such coverage should be conducted. When I'm at the highest. However, the secretary of finance is making a direct suggestion for sale of the property products involved in the role of the legal committee. It's not happening in this case. That is why it can be said that the highest. A financial minister is making a decision to choose a more comfortable committee because there is no other choice, so clearly at home. The Economic and Business Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u69	A respectable president. Earlier in this winter, industrial minister also had a terrible case, as we are doing here, trying to get it to a more comfortable committee because of the situation. The head of the professional trade committee had described what everyone saw, that the matter was ruined. It was a natural pass. Happily, the council stood up and did not place the matter in the convenient committee for the minister. Rather, it was put to Jón, the son of Gunnarsson, who was critical of it, and fortunately the evil idea was buried. Now that Bjarni son of Benediktsson brings this evil case and wants to choose a committee, there is a reason to give a special warning and send it to where the critical people have come from. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, because the last time an exorcist and an independent party sold a bank, Iceland fell apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u70	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u71	With the support of the Conspiracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u72	Since there is quite some knowledge of the past since the president explained how this vote would take place, it should be reminded of the fact that it is acting according to a fixed council. First there will be a vote for the first suggestion, i.e. in this case a recommendation from the highest range. Secretary of the budget, to refer to this case. If it is approved, the motion is not a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u73	At a meeting of the employment committee on March 17, we met. The committee provided a adjusted proposal for the deck. 1180 of the Parliamentary conclusions made by Environment and Resource Minister, Javi. 273, 244th matter, on the change in synoptic resolution of a national protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 13/141. The Committee suggests that in addition to the Impulsive Implementation of the Þjóturðar and Holtir reactivation, as well as the development of Cregment and Hagwater activation in the buffered water class. The matter is now reinvented on the program for the future. Congress. On the same day that the job committee resolved, it was discussed at the Senate Hall where it was claimed: a. not to be followed by a legal court order on the protection and energy efficiency programmes, No. 48/2011, since the task management of a Framework Programme would not create a picture to address the subject in the way it should be done, b. Further, the change in the majority of the employment committees includes the transformation of the original proposal and can therefore not be approved after just one discussion, as indicated by 2 mg. 45. g. Congress. At the same time, the president was asked to make a decision on these matters, as shown in Article 2. Section 8. Congress. By the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programmes, the General has appointed a secretary to prepare a proposal for a protection and energy efficiency programme that is more detailed in the law. It is assumed that based on viewpoints attributed to Article 3. The laws include activation options in the respective regions of the energy generation, protection party and waiting party, as well as the implementation of a national protection and energy efficiency programme and the activation initiative covered by project management. In the field of project management, procedure, and judicial procedures, you will find detailed regulations in paragraphs 9 and 10. The law. The Management Board is the secretary to advise in the preparation and preparation of the legislation for the protection and energy efficiency programme. It concludes with a minister's last logical suggestions on the classification of methodologies and land restrictions according to the classification, such as 4 mgr. 10th par. The management of changes in project management is based on 5 mg. 10th par. As a result, the constitution of the Constitution means that a law on the protection and energy efficiency will not be able to impose the rights of members of the Parliament under the Constitution in order to submit Congress. On the other hand, it has to be assumed that the President could also agree with other laws, such as 1 mgr. Section 8. Athletes of the Generals. A law on the protection and energy efficiency of the programme suggests that national policies for use and protection will be in the hands of the General Assembly and that they are based on information on the relevant activation options and the protection and usefulness of the areas to be covered. It will also be determined by the law and by the law that it is based on the fact that the Council does not take sides in steps of activation other than the Commission has discussed, but the Council is not bound by the proposals of Ministers or project managers but by the time the Council deals with the programme, it is for a professional evaluation of initiatives and territories. However, it is not clear in the law or in the legal language what is meant by professional judgements or when the case should be used. Neither does it say who should be the basis for the evaluation. Rather, it is a matter of professional evaluation. The context, however, appears to indicate that professional judgements refer to topic management on activation options with the exception of court treatments as per Article 9 and 10. track No. 48/2011. As with 5 mgr, the proposal that a minister may finally propose to the General following a review procedure. 10. Article 3 does not change the fact that professional assessments of the project management have been conducted. Track No. 48/2011 is not clear on whether the discussion should be considered on the 2nd stipulation of a framework strategy that formed the first Allied resolution on the programme and the protection and energy efficiency of land areas, January 14, 2013, No. 13/141, as a start and as time went on, new data would be added because of future activation options. A report of Article 2 includes detailed reviews and results on the order of HQ, Urra-reactivation, Holetic activation, and Anti-Segocese activation in energy generation and CAP. It cannot be seen that this was the most beautiful assessment of the project; it was due to the proposed activation initiatives. Track No. 48/2011 is not definitively determined whether the Council can base its conclusions on the existing assessment of the project and the available data that have subsequently been added or whether the task management every time sets the basis for proposaling a minister for a change in current Parliamentary protocol must have had a professional evaluation performed. When considering the overall evidence, it is more likely that the basis for the proposed activations already exist when a professional assessment of the grammatical views should be based on a protection and energy efficiency programme. According to this, the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme should not lead to dismissing the changes made. The 2nd issue, 1st. Section 8. Congress also means that the president should make sure that the proposal for action is not completely changed in that it actually becomes a completely different proposal or a new matter that needs two discussions, as 2 mgr. 45. g. Congress. As a result of a radical change, a change in motion is referred to as incompatible with the content and objective of the council. It will depend on the opinion of each individual's decision whether the adjustment is the same as the existing proposal for Congress or its own material solidarity. Suggestion of a greater part of the employment committee involves the increase in activation options to the innovation class or the mention of four priming options being replaced by a waiting category. These activation initiatives have been discussed based on laws on the protection and energy efficiency programmes. So for the change of material solidarity with proposals for environmental and resource ministers on decks. 273 on the change in Parliamentary resolution of national protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 13/141. Finally, the president points out that those who disagree on this decision have the right to submit a paradox with a more reasoned program, such as the 76th. Congress. If such a proposal is made, they will vote for it at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u74	A respectable president. I would like to express dissatisfaction with this conclusion at the highest level. President. This is made clear in the law on how a project management handles professional evaluations. There has been no professional assessment on the part of the Management Board to determine whether Hagium activation can become a novelty class. For this reason, it is equally absurd to act in a manner suggested by the administrative body as if the activation of Gold Falls had been added in the treatment of the committee. This is also the case with the multiplicity of the terms originally proposed and unidentified. In the beginning, it was one priming tool in accordance with a recognized method of action, but it has become all over other and bigger things. Therefore, it is inevitable, more honorable, that the discussion will be postponed and that we will have time to make room for another legal opinion and that the matter will not be taken into account while there is no such an opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u75	Mr. President. I don't think they're a good tool to present here orally from the Senate's legal conclusion that more part of the employment committee is about to add activation options to which a waiting party will be taken to a colony, in which the government's situation has legitimate doubts about the whole of this proposal. I just don't think it's possible to present Generalis's assessment in a verbal way from a speech chair. It is clear that we will need space to review this opinion, get legal assessment of whether this is a law, for it is absolutely clear that many lawyers have brought the view that at least there are some gray areas in this regard. Mr. President. I don't think it's a practice to imitate, I'm sorry to say that. This might have led to the discussion. So I agree with the requirement here that there be a recession so that we have the opportunity to review this evidence and to make the argument that we've already considered... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u76	A respectable president. First, I want to reiterate my question from earlier this day on whether any reconciliation has been held at the top. A president of the discussion of this great issue. And if not, why not? Is there a basis for such a meeting? I disagree completely with the legal opinion presented orally, and I now feel that we too would have more time to digest it and to look elsewhere for it. It speaks of the right to make adjustments. He is rich indeed, but he must give material attention to the same matter as the matter of Congress. I cannot agree that Impulse activation is really the same as Hagwater activation. It's just not like that, it's neither physical nor formal nor in any way the same activation as whale activation. This case is called The Protection and Energy Use Programme (Hvamactivation) -in parentheses. [[The president calls.]] Inside that parentheses, there are no more continuum transfunctioners. [[The president calls.]] Thus, other inducers suggestions are not actually related to this recommendation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u77	A respectable president. I agree with the words that have fallen to the highest level here. President. I'm not going to argue at this point with the opinion the president has presented. Of course, it is not acceptable that they are read only at the beginning of the discussion without any opportunity to consider it, get the opinion of others, and study before the discussion begins. It is not good luck to control this as a secret until the beginning of the meeting, a respectable president. I allow myself to question at least the proposal for Water of Hags to remain a law. I believe there is a great danger in being put at very high risk by creating the legal uncertainty that will clearly be involved in this activation option if this loose decree by the President is to be the sole basis for its being... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u78	For this reason, the president wants to justify what was stated in his case at the outset that it is here to discuss the decision of a president requesting that the president decide on this case when the job committee was resolved in its own time. It has been covered by the president, called to him specialists, tried to work this case with zeal, and has now presented this decision. This is not a legal opinion in that sense; this is a president's decision regarding the matters of opinion that he originally outlined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u79	A respectable president. There is a possibility that the situation we are in right now is totally unacceptable, utterly unacceptable, that a respectable president stands here and reads two and a half pages after the time that has been set aside for an unprecedented change made by Jón Gunnarsson's son. And on the same day, we're supposed to start discussing the proposal - on the same day. I ask, a respectable president, "What's the rush?" Why is there no room to discuss this opinion or this decision by the president, since there are issues of opinion here? I have reserved my right to have full doubts about the text that is presented here, and most important, I would like to ask myself, " Who is the one who enjoys the doubt? ' Who enjoys the doubt? Is it the natural nature of Iceland, or is it a respected senator for Jón Gunnarsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u80	A respectable president. I'm going to object to the protocol that the president is coming with a decision, and I'm going to read him at the beginning of the program before the case, and I'm not even going to give us a chance to have that conversation. In the opinion of the highest. The president went over here to come up with things that I think are actually wrong and I want an explanation for. For example, he claimed that the project management had completed the advantages offered by a professional health - care committee to improve the proposal. So the evidence for why the project management has ended does not directly appear in the Parliamentary arrangement, which makes it clear that it does not feel that it has yet to deal with these benefits. How can that be? The president concluded that she has already done so? Is it just his cold food and his advisers? What kind of work is that? I also have to say just as it is that if we are going to discuss this matter with us with such a weight, it is quite clear how people will look at the council. [[The president calls.]] It just doesn't matter what's going on here, and what law here is agreed to... be breaking them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u81	A respectable president. I agree with what's been said here about the need for the government to get nothing to review Presidential decision. Without delay, if the decision is decided, there is no waiting party or protection party in this country. At that time, a professional health committee can actually include the entire waiting party, for a professional evaluation has taken place in the president's opinion, and the entire coven, that is, a non-authorized group, and a novelty party. Maybe it's something you shouldn't say out loud. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u82	And vice versa...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u83	There is an extremely thin thirteenth and weak logic that is evident in this decision. [[Up front.]] So, here is the wording, by permission of the president: When we examine the entire body of the evidence that has been attributed here, the evidence appears to go further in the direction of the president's conclusion. It's not gonna hold water.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u84	V.E.G. President. I'm going to pray to the highest. After stating his decision, the president informed me of the following: Was this decree laid before the presiding committee so that all members of that committee could evaluate him and give him the opinion of that group? Or is here at the highest. Mr. President to bend the council and the council's payment on the wishes of more part, a particular party, in order to get certain things out at the council? A frame plan has been established by this decision. She is just gone - a frame plan that has been in preparation for 15 years. Why don't we see here again that we should pick out the fight, hit on the hands of those who are trying to settle matters, push out matters that are not right? Here's a simple proposal from the highest. Ministers for a single activation through the council, to be brought between classes, one activation. [[The president calls.]] It would have been a long time ago that they started working on activation if it was not being delayed at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u85	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president is a fast - locked man, and I had a lot to read about the threads he carried from a garment that he intends to carry on the weapons that are being carried up here. But I like each other. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall. This is, in effect, two aspects of the subject, one of the material suggestions discussed in the material discussion, if it is presented, and one on the other, whether it is formal in advance for the discussion, the highest terms of salomonism. President. I thought he was pretty sick. V.E.G. The president said the word for it: "The evidence is rather clear to the point that the changes are not to be dismissed. " It is a very weak foundation, and in view of the fact that this is quite a long - term opinion that is important to me, I feel that there is a higher sense of peace. The president would allow the government's stand to take a look at this legal opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u86	Mr. President. You're becoming increasingly surprised by the way you work here at the General Assembly. I would have thought it was the highest. It would be more difficult for the president to introduce this opinion here at the beginning of the discussion, this decision based on a legal opinion, not to introduce him in the past, and to give an opportunity to have this opinion considered to have some argument about whether the decision would hold any conclusions. As mentioned above, it is based on a very weak foundation and referred to as the benefits added to it have already been treated professionally. Is this just to offend people? I'm just so offended that I don't know what to say, that I won't be often, but I'm totally embarrassed. I would have thought it was the highest. A president would be more careful in his respect than then to offer the council this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u87	V.E.G. President. I had thought to explain my opinion here in the following discussion, but in the light of what is being discussed here, I'd like to call the attention of a body of Congress that in a letter I have in the hands of the Environment and Resource Ministry and have read and is in my committee party, including, by permission of the President: In view of previous coverage, it must be concluded that since a project management was not dealing materially with five specific activation initiatives [i.e. Gangs I and II gangs, Hag Lakes and Hólstäi v/Atley, like law No. 48/2011 assumes] if the proposed activations are still in the management of project management by the Ministry of Environment and Resources. The task force has not provided a suggestion for the classification of these costs for Minister and Parliamentary Reunion [the proposal] currently available for the Council does not cover the costs. Please pay attention, most honored president: Therefore, the Environment and Resource Ministry's assessment of the law of No. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. I'm asking, more dignified President, because we now enjoy serving here as Environment and Resource Minister: Isn't the Minister still the same opinion as shown by the help that came from the Environment and Resource Ministry on this particular matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u88	V.E.G. President. I disagree with the ultimate conclusion. It seems to me that in this decision sails through the wind. I'd like to point out that a number of guests and clients would appear to the committee, and many of them expressed concern that if these adjustments in the motion of the majority of the segment were taken care of, the process of stipulation would be ignored. There's a lot at stake here, top president. The very existence of the self-programming programme is underneath. This discussion cannot be started with the change, nor can it be started at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u89	A respectable president. I prefer to conclude that answers have not been received to my persistent questions as to whether any reconciliation in this case occurred, that it did not occur, and I find it interesting in this obvious issue. It turns out that there has also been no presentation at the highest decision by the classes. A president he read earlier and would have had good reason to give such a presentation. We will discuss this decision under the supervision of the president in the limited public speaking period there. There are countless questions: Does the frame plan have any significance anymore? That's one question. Do these protective groups, waiting groups, New World Translations? According to this decision, it can be concluded that they do not have it. Is there any significance to important details in the council? According to this decision, it can be concluded that they do not. Will economic water activation be legal if there is a basis for the adjustment that we are going to make? The highest. President said that this activation is in accordance with the protection and efficiency laws, if applied? And if we talk about Congress, the highest. Mr. President, if we make a suggestion to build, for example, at the General House, as it is currently indicated, may I suggest a change in the motion of building some other house as well? [[The president calls.]] Would that be available? [[Up front.]] Yes, on Siglusar, or on Eskimo, or anywhere? [[The president calls.]] All sorts of other buildings? [[The president calls.]] Must it be built, or may it be a house? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u90	A respectable president. As I read this document more often, I'll be more convinced that it doesn't keep water, so it's said here very clearly. It's not gonna hold water. A respectable president. By presenting it here, a respectable president creates a significant risk of failure of a frame plan, that it is in position that it will not be restored. I would like to ask for a break in this discussion so that we can get some advice to weigh this text here and look at what has come from the Environmental and Resource Ministry where people have been working on these issues for years and decades, until the task management program, etc, has been discussed because we have a real hand assignment. It is not acceptable to call the professional assessment of the project management to a waiting party. [[The president calls.]] Thus, all 67 benefits come from the second stage of Jón, the son of Gunnarsson's barn. [[The president calls.]] That's no way to keep it that way, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] So this meeting and this discussion must be interrupted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u91	Mr. President. The members of Parliament considered the president not electronically, but only by letter into a platoon office 45 minutes before a council meeting, we were considered to be the one he was reading just now. His opinion, or his conclusion, he concludes that this is so because the President of Congress has at least absolute authority when it comes to a matter of Congress, and this is his conclusion. Okay, he's got totalitarian power, and he can just say, "That's the way it is, you just have to take it, please. But not giving us any time to react before we enter this discussion, which is a subsequent debate of two of the Parliamentary decrees in which the law is clearly being compromised in a huge conflict, in which it is being turned from long-term dating and which makes a huge difference -- I think the senator must see that it is just not good to use his allegory like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u92	Mr. President. I told him before that I thought there was a legal uncertainty about this case, and that's what I think. But I don't think there's any reason why this strategy is not designed to improve culture at the council, because here we have very strong reasons which are the work done by the Environment Minister of the Parliament's Self-Counsel Act where it is suggested that only Hagming is moved to a novelty party, where it is specifically said in the paper that it does not seem to pass the law on the framework of bringing Hague water activation to the colony because there is so much to be so much involved in the analysis of a number of factors related to the priming process. So we have a statement of the highest order. Environment Minister, this is not a law. [[The president calls.]] Then comes the top. The president here and read it to argue that there is a professional assessment of the perfunctory views which should be based on a protection and energy efficiency programme. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We must, Mr. President, take a break to review this decision because this kind of work, of course, is not very effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u93	A respectable president. I'm just so depressed about this interest that I don't really know where to start. I was very disappointed with the Supreme decision. President and I don't really quite get what's going on here. What are we here for? Why don't we just be a dictator? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, isn't it? Can't we just go back to our former job? It's a real charade. It's a real charade. What professional evaluation is the basis of the Supreme President's decision? You just have to answer that. This isn't how it works. This isn't working. You're not gonna talk to us here like we're some asshole. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u94	A respectable president. Let it be past the fact that this decision is based on a very weak argument. He will most likely remind me of Billur Clinton's plea in the Lewinsky case, where the key defense rests on the sentence: it depends on the way you define the word ◯ it. This suggests that there is no definition behind the professional evaluation, what it really means. Of course, that means, and it can help you to conclude that by all categories of frame plans are upset and not in force anymore, it clearly does not work out. In view of the situation here, I feel that you have to simply ask yourself, " Is this good for the politicians? Is this good for the council? Is this for our advantage? I think there's every reason to it, from the way it's played out of this meeting here today, to the highest. The president calls up a meeting of the council groups, and we only review the situation, and the president will see if there is any reason to give the entire government stand just to review the situation and get another opinion.... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u95	A respectable president. I want to ask that there be an interval at this meeting so that we can review this tragic opinion read here, and it will only be worse and worse as you look at it more carefully. It has been carefully considered here to consider the highest level. The President is in opposition to the findings of the Environment and Resource Ministry and the legal office there. It is in opposition to the very text of the synonym. No matter where it is looked, there are claims in the opinion of the above that this is not a major change in the original proposal. How can it already be in this council hearing that these benefits are not fully explored? Then it is a major change to increase the proposal to one advantage. What is a major change to be taken into the highest mind. President? All that has been presented in the matter of the Senate's president is that of political opinions, political views, and not the professional decision of the president of the entire council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u96	The president wants to issue what has been discussed in this discussion, and it has been claimed that, first of all, this is the decision of the president. It was called upon when the case was settled at the time of a professional employment committee that the president determined on certain matters of opinion that the president outlined in this decision. The bottom line here is the President's decision, which is final. Of course we can. While members of the council had differing opinions on the conclusion and decision of the president and gave other opinions, they have come to the conclusion that he has reasoned in this decision. [[Up front.]] However, we are here to discuss some of the changes made at the original Senate document, the Senate resolution, and it is the General himself who eventually makes the material decision for the treatment of these changes and the proposals that were originally made. Then, the president wants to draw attention to what he mentioned in his concluding words earlier, that at the order of 77 C.E., members of Parliament who disagree on this decision are entitled to submit a ruling proposal with a logical program. Congress. If such a proposal is made, they will vote for it at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u97	Mr. President. It is basically two things; on the one hand, I would like to think about the possibility that the Council is all equally professional. Since my senator was not in a house but was tied to other meetings at lunch and did not come into the house until just before a meeting began, I have not seen this document, which for some reason could not be distributed electronically or before. I'm asking the highest. President: What is the reason for this view to be presented in this way? What is the reason why it could not be delivered electronically or delivered yesterday? Did it come first this morning? And if so, I find it most reprehensible that it is done on such short notice. Since there is no conference today, members of the council have not had the opportunity to formally introduce the matter to their members in a predetermined way. So I think this is a bad business, and it's not a democratic, respectable president. [[The president calls.]] But I would pray for the answer: " Why is this presented? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u98	This case is presented in exactly the same way as other decisions called after President granted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u99	Mr. President. I hope to the highest. Even if the president forgives me for asking: What privileges do humans need, and how long do people have to stay here to be able to access such documents? I see men are waving this opinion, I haven't got it. It is the President to pronounce a decision that must be held by the Senate. But when political storms are under way, it will be the highest. President to be fairly precise in his decisions. I didn't think the President was the chief. There was quite a running of his decision. He said that rather reason on the point that the adjustment of the proposals could not be dismissed. He wasn't very sure about it. It seems to me that the situation has changed completely when it is enlightened here. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, that there is another legal opinion from the Environment and Resource Ministry that literally says it is not in the spirit of the law and that it is not carried out if there are benefits that have not been considered by the law. That's when I feel at the top. The president should agree... with the suggestion to have a meeting with members of the council on the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u100	The president would like to give the occasion. According to a senator, he has made arrangements to have this decision sent to him electronically. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u101	Why do some people have it and not...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u103	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, who wanted the president to meet with members of the council. I repeat, we cannot begin this discussion on the basis of this decision, which ignores laws and guidelines. If that's what it wants. I warn you at the beginning of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u104	A respectable president. As we have noted, this decision was not long before a council meeting, and since then the meeting has been on the edge of the council. I would be very grateful for just a few moments to review him and the points that are somewhat significant if you are going to examine the matter with some depth. We haven't had the chance. At the time I was preparing for a meeting, he was sent to a council meeting about 45 minutes before, and of course, I have been attending a meeting since then. [[Up front.]] I haven't had a chance to examine him completely myself. I have tried, though, during these discussions, but they are not yet long enough to do so. Also, I would have liked to share it with other members of the council, to get their opinion, and also to examine the points of the comments that have been made in the various speeches. Parliamentaries on this decision and, of course, of course, the legal issue that is clearly present. I think it's very important that we postpone a meeting, get some space to go over it so that we can talk about it with a depth beyond what we can possibly do under the President's board, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u105	V.E.G. President. First of all, I regret that once again there is a huge debate over a policy frame. I say for my part that when a soul - souled industrial committee led a bill to law through the General Assembly with everyone's approval, it was with the wish that the law could be passed and the practices to follow. I'll be back, Mr. Honorable President, to ask the highest question. The Environment and Resource Minister I see, unfortunately, has left the hall for the opinion of the Ministry, which can be said to be a legal explanation of this case, saying, under the permission of a president: Therefore, the Environment and Resource Ministry's assessment of the law of No. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. This is the assessment of the Environment and Resource Minister. The Ministry is sending it, and this is a legal solution with this council mitigating proposal. [[The president calls.]] I'd love to have a president take the initiative to get to the top. The Environment and Resource Minister would come and tell us if it is not yet on this level.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u106	A respectable president. I kind of have to wait for president. I hope it's just a mistake here. It's a mistake that's in charge of the decision made by the President. The decision cannot hold a view; it has become quite clear from these discussions. Often it is that you do not know all the details, and the president would be much more if he acknowledged it if that is the case. If it isn't like that, if it's only politics that talks, then things have gotten pretty serious. Then the mood or respect of the council is at its highest. It doesn't matter how we work here, it's just what it's all about. þm. Jón Gunnarsson is given four more initiatives that have nothing to do with this synonym... nothing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u107	Mr. President. I haven't had an electronic decision yet, but I took someone else's picture. It shows that the decision, among other things, served to protect us. not to be followed by a legal court order on the protection and energy efficiency programmes, No. 48/2011, since the task management board of a Framework Programme did not form a picture on the subject in the way it should be carried. Kristján L. Möller has now referred to the environmental and resource minister's opinion that the law is not being followed if such activation options are added. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is doing it. Then you ask yourself, and I must ask the president: " When he alone has the legal right, who did he speak to? When you have a court order and there's some sort of opinion, you must go to where most people are concerned. Went to the top. The President for Environment and Resource Ministers, who asked for reviews on this issue, if this was a law? [[The president calls.]] Did he speak to members of the council and the presidents of the classes? [[The president calls.]] To whom did he look for the final judgment?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u108	V.E.G. President. I think it's really simple to the top. The president will have to gather members of the council and discuss the matter further. It's a decision from the highest. The President's coming to the meeting. Then already the highest. A president will be in an effort to answer for him, and he will say, if I speak properly, that the General will eventually take a physical position. The matter is to be discussed in the second discussion now without getting material things on the table. [[Up front.]] Yet, the council is to take a material position. What kind of work are these? Time as high as possible. The decision has been made by the president for quite a long time, but the situation of government is to resolve and take a promising stand on the matter within 24 hours. Is this the democracy we're going to live with? Is this the conference we're going to live with? They knew that this would be one of the biggest issues of Icelandic society. It was followed, it was found, and it was agreed together. [[The president calls.]] Yet men make war. So those breaking peace must be responsible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u109	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the president to recess at this meeting and gather members of the council. I also feel that it is important to have a discussion with a group member of the United States council after such a meeting to discuss these matters. We're here to talk about one of the biggest issues in Icelandic society. We're talking about a disagreement on how to handle the matter, and we're talking about a second discussion that's supposed to be settled. With all due respect and kindness, Mr President, I ask you to interrupt this meeting and sit down with members of the council and review the case. It's not enough to review Presidential judgment as a last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u110	Mr. President. This discussion has given us much further support that the members of Parliament have the right to consider these matters at a council meeting and that members of the council are reviewing it, and they are better informed at council meetings. Something else has now been done about it. General. A meeting has had to be interrupted to discuss matters that are even less serious than these matters. I think it's highly recommended. The president of the United States, to listen to what has been presented in the discussion, using democratic methods, and to allow us members of the Parliament to accept the message of his decision that I consider to be indistinguishable that has not been introduced at previous levels before this large matter is scheduled, which will damage any subsequent session.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u111	A respectable president. Time and again, we are placed in a very bad position as to how we will prioritize our work. If we're going to have a fight, as we should be doing, i.e. To try to figure out how to find any long - term solutions to such controversy, we need to avoid discussing one of the most controversial issues of our day, framework. And if we're going to concentrate on a frame plan, we'll miss out on what is going to be a big deal and so we'll lose a huge deal. Now the same problem comes back. We receive this decision from a respectable president, who should be able to introduce us in 45 minutes, along with all the other members of the council, and who will then be included in the discussion. Either we need to examine this decision or follow the discussion to take place here. The problem is we have to do both. Therefore, I strongly suggest that there be a recession at a meeting so that we can look into this decision and keep it clean when we consider a material discussion on a structure. That's how professional work, a respectable president, works all the work I've done in every single place except here. This is where you always have to do two things at the same time. [[The president calls.]] That's not necessary, Mr. Honorable President, this is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u112	A respectable president. I'd like to say at the beginning of my speech, for here was only a talk of any names and such, that if there's anything better about it, as well as that. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall or other, to be here with some names or other shit, as has been discussed in this matter before, it is without reason to me. It's a different story from where it comes from, and in these cases it's totally harmless to me. Many big words have fallen here, a respectable president, and I think the decision of a president is of course clear and correct in considering this matter; for the Court of Congress must be clear on the matters referred to, and members of Congress should make adjustments in this manner, as it would very well be done in these matters. A lot of work has been done. A professional health committee. There were 70 members of the committee who met with this and a number of controversial reports in many parts of the world. The national protection and energy efficiency programme is based on law No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme. In the 3rd. Their legislation requires that the Ministers submit to the General Assembly no less than every four years a proposal for a resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. This suggestion involves a change in the current conclusions on a national protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 13/141, approved at the General Assembly of January 14, 2013. The proposal suggests that Idolatry is replaced by a waiting party. The environmental protection and energy efficiency programme is mainly based on the results of the 2nd step of the Framework Programme. The 2nd Arms Administration proposed 67 priming options laid down in each of the 3 categories, i.e. that 16 activation options fell into the energy union, 31 options for a waiting party, and 20 assets for a protection party. In accordance with provisional regulations in the law, a valid proposal for action was made for the end of the summer of 2011 by the then industrial minister. Based on the comments received during the narrative process, some changes were made in the schedule before proposaling to be concluded before the council. These included six reasons for activation from the waiting class, Urtic acid reactivation, Holetic reactivation, Impulsion, Central activation, and two of the atherothrombotic inactivations. The reason for making this move was the need to examine their individual factors. A majority of the Generals then agreed to this move. Basically, I now feel exactly the same thing as at the time. In the legal process, a minister is expected to make adjustments to the decision of the Council member of the Commission. He then sends the case to the council, and in the law there is no charge of the council, but only at the level of administration. We are, in effect, evaluating, following a special process of reporting the proposed changes, special narratives, and detailed work. We are likewise evaluating the results of that work, as ministers noted in their final term. Then the minister decided to bring some of these initiatives back to a waiting party. [[Foreground on:]] That was not acceptable. Then we thought the agreement on a frame plan had been broken, and I stuck to that opinion. We strongly objected that it was illogical to transfer these activation options to a waiting party and that Polish had played a large part there. On the basis of the great work being carried out at the 2nd stipulation of the framework, on the basis of the review process that the committee then proposed for these adjustment proposals now, we come to this conclusion. I think it's in complete harmony with law, and there's a total solidarity in the greater part of the process of transporting these adjustments. The current project manager was appointed on March 25, 2013, but on July 12 of the same year, the minister appointed an appendix to the topic letter of the project and assigned it to set prior work priorities so that it would be performed as soon as possible to evaluate the six activation options taken from a waiting category as well as the two costs that had not received adequate publicity in the activities of the 2nd class, i.e. Hag Lake and Hallowed at Atley. The majority suggest that a change in the existing proposal suggests that four additional activation options in addition to Iphronization are converted to the category of neovascularisation. In other words, the greater part suggests that in addition to ICDs, Holtic activation, Urtic acidification, exocrine activation, and Haggisisation of the colony. The majority of the rights to, in addition to ICDs, were Holtic activation, Urras reactivation, and Scorpiotic activation as part of the results of Project Management Plan II and were mainly based on this result. For details on each priming in a paper with the Parliament's resolution proposal, see the article. It has been claimed that the law on a protection and energy efficiency strategy prevents the council from suggesting a change in the proposal of a Minister in which the current task management has failed to propose their order. A projection in the Part 2 of the Programme agreed, as I mentioned, that most of these cost fell under a category of innovations, but the law on protection and energy efficiency had not come into force while the project was in operation. The law requires the order of a six-man programme, a secretary to advise on the preparation of a protection and energy efficiency programme under the law. Counts 9 and 10. The law's ordered to operate on task management, its procedure and its case. The law expects the Minister to propose a resolution for the council, but there is no law on the case at the Council. For the treatment of Parliaments at the General Assembly, No. 55/1191. There is a requirement for making adjustments in the matter of Congress. A greater proportion also points out that the members of Parliament have a rich right to participate in the matter, which, for example, is granted the legal right to represent the Council of the Council, such as the Council of Churches of 38 and 55th. hers. The majority of it feels that the law on a protection and energy efficiency programme is not going to harm them. The Law on Framework was aimed at establishing a basis for continuing work on evaluation and grouping of activation options. The work has been done on the part of a project manager appointed on March 25, 2013. The legislation is to contribute to more efficient and targeted policies and agreements over which areas to be used for energy efficiency and which areas to protect against such projects through sustainable development. There have been a lot of debate over the instigation issues in this country, and it can be said that with the approval of the law, there was hope to defuse such debates. When discussing this proposal, the majority of the questions about the need to pause have been raised and considered to reevaluate the process, although the majority agree with the procedure being based on the law. However, there are a number of factors that the majority feel can be added to in order to increase efficiency and effectiveness, both in energy efficiency and protection efficiency. First, it can be noted that in discussing the matter, it has been suggested that a project management requires too much detailed information on its review. This is mentioned in the light of Article 4. 10th par. the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme it is recommended that the proposals of the project management be implemented by environmental evaluations in accordance with the Environmental Assessment Act. The aim of environmental assessments is to promote sustainable development and to reduce environmental impacts as well as to contribute to environmental planning. In other words, it has been claimed to the Commission that the work of the Management Board in part reversed the search and request data on aspects that are more likely to be under environmental impact under the legislation on environmental impact assessment, No. 106/2000. This evaluation will be carried out in late stages and, for example, no activation license will be published unless environmental impact has been evaluated. The aim of environmental impact is to ensure that prior to approval for projects that may result in significant environmental impacts has been evaluated for its environmental impact. It is also their aim to minimise negative environmental impacts and contribute to the cooperation of those with interest in or relevant activities. In comments to the bill, it is suggested that the aims of the environmental assessment in the strategy range were to consider that the environmental impacts at previous levels of decision-making as well as the synergies of many implementations on certain environmental factors or areas. At the same time, it was observed that since policy-making policies were generally general, compared to those for individual projects, environmental assessments would have to be subject to relatively rough evaluations, often without specific environmental and environmental studies. The majority of them consider it important to draw a clear line on how accurate project management is in order to see that the process of a whole frame plan will not be too extensive, will not be too late, and will not be too busy. The majority of the data shows that although there is a possibility of occurrence and grouping, there is no indication for activation there. This is addressed in commentaries to the bill that became the law on the protection and energy efficiency programmes. It says, by permission of the president: However, the distribution of land areas and the activation of innovation groups does not include a statement that is being carried out during the period but merely allowing permission to be granted because of these activation options. Therefore, the methods of activation that fall into this category should take place in the standard license and environmental assessment procedures according to the above laws and other laws as appropriate. Then it depends on the legal requirements of the law No. 106/2000, the assessment of environmental impact, whether or not the implementation depends on environmental assessment. It is not excluded that governments assess it so that sources associated with energy efficiency should not be issued due to innovation mechanisms. In view of the above, the protection and innovation programme also includes general policies, not planning or implementation programmes, in the sense of law No. 105/2006, the environmental assessments. However, the classification of methods of activation in this category binds the general organizational authorities to the development of organizational plans. Therefore, in line with a plan for implementing relevant projects in areas affected by activation initiatives in this category. To that end, planning can test the environmental assessments above. According to Article 7. The law is a protection and energy efficiency programme binding to the development of rural planning programmes, however it is permitted to postpone the decision of land use for up to ten years and to request the Agency's permission for a maximum of three more years. According to electrical law, the release of the Power Agency is required to build and run an electric power plant. When applying for such a permit, the proposed implementation should be in accordance with the current strategy in which it is applied. In other words, when applying for the activation permit for the specified option, a rural society's organization needs to be developed in a novelty category. All innovations in the national protection and energy use programme depend on environmental impact assessments by the legislation on environmental impact assessments, No. 106/2000. This opinion is somewhat thorough, so I do not read it whole, a respectable president, as it is faced. However, I would like to only show support and what is stated in the committee's opinion of the priming options involved. In the lower part of the Tubular ulcer, Impulse Induction, Holtting, and Urcratic deactivation were secondary to project management in the second stage of the Framework Programme. The reason for these benefits to a waiting class was that data on negative effects were received on the salmon population of the year and was at the time considered unavoidable to result in a new global assessment of environmental impact until the results showed the impact of the production of salmon fish in the river. The greater part points out that there was a time when there was a time when a greater proportion at the General Assembly had been disfellowshipped from the results of project management in the rest of the framework. The results of Project Management were not unanimous, but one representative suggested that all three of the sub-Stierth fortresses be added to a novelty class. On October 22, 2013, the project management requested an explanation from the recruiter on the implementation of three activations in lower fill wounds, i.e. Scleric deactivation, Holt activation and Impulse reactivation. An answer was received on 31 October 2013, bearing the heading: ◯ Acquired explanatory explanation for the implementation of three sources of activation in the lower part of Þrjörg, i.e. Urarfras, Holta and Hamp reactivation. Earlier in 2013, Skúli Skúli Skúlason and Haraldur Rafn Inngvason Ingvason a report on salmon fish in Þjórða. On October 22, 2013, the task force assigned a team to review, among other things, the above reported report and answers to Land activation and the trade group assessment, dated November 4, 2013. I call attention to these dates. The Management Board appoints a professional group on October 22, 2013, to review reports and answers to National Reactivation as well as the above report. This group of professionals yields less than two weeks later, 12 days later, so it has been working fast unless things were so obvious. Of course, this is of interest when, in fact, it is a logical conclusion that is totally contrary to the much work and the results reached in the project management of the 2nd-to-step program. You could have thought that there might be more work to do around it. But I'm not going to belittle it, not at all. This led to the conclusion of the group. He thought that it would be justified to bring ARR to a novelty party, but he did not consider it justified to bring Holta reactivation or reactivation to a novelty party. The majority of the reports show that in the National Reactivation Programme, dated March 18, 2014, there is a review of counter measures due to Holtization aimed at protecting fish stocks and on monitoring and retrospectives. It discusses the objectives of counter-improvement and summarises information on the counter measures of proposed activation aimed at protecting fish stocks. The report reviews a number of factors, such as choice of machines, seagulls and salmon ladders, and flow control below Bundas. Substantial measures under the shock of Booths are discussed. To ensure flow of the Murneycan can also be considered. This will address the monitoring of fish stocks and explain a response plan under different circumstances if counter measures are not effective. It also provides a national report, dated March 18, 2014, on counter-reaction measures aimed at protecting fish stocks as well as in monitoring and response programmes. It summarises the compensatory actions of the intended inducers aimed at protecting fish stocks and the specific choice of machines and making reports for irrigation in the activation, salmon phase at the Canargolian Dam, flow control, and periphery measures. It also discusses monitoring of fish stocks and the impact of counterimbursement. In fact, it has been very detailed in what has been over and over over as to the activations of the lower part of the Year, the impact on salmon plants, and that is my opinion and that of others who have discussed this in detail that the factors that may arise in the environment evaluations are to be carried out because these compensatory measures are actually to be considered. Scorpio-engineering was a novelty class after graduation of project management in the second part of the frame design. In the proposed rationale, the activation and support of a proposed task management is such that it requires data to reevaluate the effects of rock-engineering and shark activation in the open and protective areas of the Lakesland park, as well as their synergistic effects and electrical systems. The majority of the evidence shows that it does not include his proposal for the development of Sharkism to become a novelty class. Scoring is planned for an area that is already disturbed and will be buried in the Tubular Age. The plan is to use a function of a function of a function of two man-made mediums, and the activation becomes largely invisible to those passing the area. The only visible construction, except for roads, will be nearly a mile [1 km] of drainage canal from a drain drain to the flowway to the sea of Crimea. It can also be noted that the cost of removing visible structures and closing exits is not overwhelming and is therefore reversible. The activation will be linked to the transport system via a ground cord. Regarding Hag Lake, our committee body says: In a review process beginning on August 19, 2011, new information on soils and the effects on tourism were presented. A greater proportion of the data shows that both evidence has been shown and, contrary to the restoration of the first maximum size of Lake Hags by dam to bind the sandflakes and restore the epithelial epithelium of nearby areas. Activation ideas are beginning to realize that lakes will reach their initial size as they were once at nature's level. Commenting on the matter, the plans were made to restore the former water size and have been considered to use them for energy production. The local people are interested in the project and believe it to be a more efficient type of soil, a higher possibility of land healing, and a better quality of life for the population in the affected area. In 1997, the assessment of the environmental impact of increasing the water level of Lake Hags was provided by dams. The development of water surfaces to regress with sand has led the development of the development of the development of the development of the Blue Forest. It appeared to the committee that the main cause of soil erosion, the old bottom of Lake Hags, will become a reality. With regard to the above factors, the majority of the components, as mentioned above, are still subject to the evaluation of environmental effects and development allowing for, i.e. Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) and procedure Depending on the events, the organization needs to be changed. According to this procedure, a thorough and thorough review is carried out, and it is ensured by the public for comment on the procedure. The minister appointed project management in step 3 of a frame plan two years ago, but there is still no change at one option, i.e. Impulse reactivation. The majority encourages the Minister to ensure continued progress of the project and provide funding. The majority of the reports show that in this country a national protection and use programme is a formulation of a preceding professional assessment of the project and therapy or political process. In general, everyone will be at peace with the classification of all activation initiatives in the programme. However, the greater part believes that the process must be stable and that the result would be more settled if the process of trust was made. It is evident that when a current programme was adopted at the General Assembly, professional assessment of the project management of the 2nd stipulation of the Framework Programme and the present, the end of the greater part is partly going to the conclusion of the previous task management. The majority feels that it is necessary for a minister to review the above comments about the procedure on which the law is based. The greater part encourages a minister to consider in agreement with relevant institutions, hoping to have a legal bill placed before the first. The majority suggest that this case be agreed and, under the majority opinion, Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Egilsdótir There is no need for many to comment on how energy - consuming industry has affected an Icelandic population. We who attended the annual meeting of Conspiracy, which was performed a few days ago, had a very good view of the position of that company and this painting group. It was interesting to listen to the speech of the President of Iceland, and I'd like to quote in his speech only. Among other things, he said by permission of a president: Hence, by taking a proud look at the many opportunities now developing, opportunities that can bring greater prosperity, support for the well - being and productive nation of life. Now, the demand for energy is far greater than Land activation may be another problem, even for decades, that no large buyer felt that energy, a problem that neither the company nor many governments were able to solve. On the birthday, however, there is a situation where buyers knock the doors, the studios that have been working here, and new manufacturing companies, as well as the rapidly growing data plants and others who want to come here... This urges us, more dignified president, how important it is to continue in this regard. During the last term, there was no agreement on handling matters. It was started with the possibility that we could reveal this dispute. But it can be seen that all who want political intervention to take place caused much confusion about the future affairs of these matters, unfortunately. There is also the result. The results are those that were immediately available, i.e. that the development of energy-rich industry would be stopped and the nation will lose several important years in continuing development at this level. We've been living through the decades with very weak support for this community. We built our goods on the watch for fish, sheep, and crafts. Thus, at the time we experienced the economic collapse, 2008, new and strong foundations were established in Icelandic society, which may then be shaken by the overhaul in Icelandic society. However, when the silenium collapsed in its own time, it was in the bases of Icelandic society. It was a battle that began here at the time of land induction for which to take the lead in these matters. Fifty years ago, political conflicts were about it, exactly as they were today, whether to go this way or not. Of course, we all know the route, and they have been very successful in helping a nation. The discussion on these matters has often suggested that we've been supplying energy, we've been selling energy way too cheap in Iceland. It's nice to read here the words that the president of Iceland said on the very 50th anniversary of national activation when he reviewed his administrative seat in this company 30 years ago, at a time when people were looking for light to some great foreign people who were ready to come here, invest and build up on our fine country. It was not only a matter of success, but, of course, some things had to be left behind. During that time, about 1960, when those decisions were likely to take place, certain major workers had to be made in the country. We had not yet reached the general growth of jobs in the country, and electricity security was very uncertain, and major projects had to be undertaken. It was very expensive for a small nation in a large country to go on such a fortune unless there was a large buyer who would be willing to take this cost with us. And he was found as a reason why today, home and general employment pay some of the lowest energy prices in the world. This is because it was a walk. It may be the greatest daily benefit of Icelandic and Icelandic enterprises by going this way. We'll see now about that. Fifty years after the establishment of Land-activation, it is better to publish because now the investments in their time have been cut off and are making a lot of money to the company that has been able to pay off their debts quickly. On the part of the company, it is announced that within a short period of time, just in the near future, its profits and taxpayers will be seeing the profits and their taxpayers but perhaps tens of billions of dollars into national preparation each year. The value of this company is probably somewhere around 600 billion, a company that has not originated in this value. The government has never put a dollar in it. They have given them responsibility for the loans and the position of the company is now becoming in a way that makes them feel that they do not need the future responsibility. It's going to be totally independent of standing up a stream of credit. All the nations envy us, a respectable president, because of our position. Persson Göran was at the annual meeting of the Association of Business Life the other day, talking about the natural resources of Iceland and the real value we can build on our production. He urged us to be careful, slowly walk through the door of joy, but he said that we have more solid foundations than any other nation he knew. As a result, we are sharing, a respectable president, how far to go. We've walked shorter than most countries, e.g. Norway, if we compare ourselves with our cousins in Scandinavia. We are to look for ways to settle this matter, but the terms of reconciliation must not be the subject of procrastination. We can't afford it. We need to move on in this field as well as in others, that is extremely important. We see what is now called because we produce more electricity in the way we do. We see that we are building an even greater variety of corporate and employment fleas, an even greater export value. We're getting a higher price for energy now than we've ever had. When we come to think only of future generations, as is often suggested in this discussion, that we need to store something for future generations, I ask: What is better for us than for our parents to have built for us Burglarization or Sogs that today are a great stream of what we build our community? They built up these trades.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u113	... summer...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u114	A respectable president. I'll let it go for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u115	V.E.G. President. In an answer of one minute, you cannot respond to a talk at any given moment. Senator, that's what I'll do in my speech afterwards. I'd like to ask you what. A candidate on the basis of the data presented to the Committee is a legal solution to this synonym. That's the Environment and Resource Department's opinion on law No. 48/2011, the Framework Act, that it does not assume that the Council can change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency programmes have not been established in this respect. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion on this statement by the Ministry and whether he is not afraid of this opinion will be accepted as a useful tool that will be used if someone thinks of going into a lawsuit over this decision or because they feel that it has not been legally handled against the matters of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u116	A respectable president. I simply do not agree with this opinion, and I have discussed this with a number of lawyers and others, and we see what decision the President of the Council is and with the experts employed here, as it would be, a respectable president, in a clear way if an order from a minister on these matters could not be changed at the council. Why, then, was the matter being referred to by the council to a conquistancy treatment? If it was the will of the Lawgiver in its own time that it would be totally up to the minister's conclusions on the case, then what is the contingency? A review, discussion, meetings, and all that goes with it, the discussion at the council, if you don't think about any change? I don't know anything like that, a respectable president, who will come in this way to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u117	V.E.G. President. There's also doubt that this law is being passed. The Ministry simply says, with the permission of the president: A strict interpretation of the law of No. 48/2011, and the above articles could be held that the Council could only make a change in this specific activation option, Impulse activation. It is by changing it from the energy efficiency class to such a thing as A waiting party or a protection party or vice versa. There's the Ministry of prosecuting the same opinion, although the word is not as clear as the Environmental and Resource Ministry is. What do you think? A senator's opinion of this? And isn't he afraid, as I am, that if this motion is accepted, these data are the legal data that will be used in a lawsuit about the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u118	A respectable president. No, I'm not really worried about this. That's what I have to say. I find this to be remarkable if it is so that the council has no right to discuss the issues involved. If we consider just the logic presented in this article, which says that the task management has not discussed these initiatives, then it is just not correct. It is only necessary to read the report on a project to a minister that stated that the project management went to the site, that she discussed these benefits, that she reviewed certain aspects, and that they had to be done better. The evaluation of the Agency is that the factors to be carried out in the environmental evaluation of the activities will be implemented, the environmental assessment of these activations when it needs to be performed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u119	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk that Jón to Gunnarsson, the son of Gunns, who introduced his vision of the future that I heard, was rooted in the 60's, at least in the 20th century. Especially did he there when he introduced his vision of his future on electrical matters. But I would like to ask. A senator does not care about it but especially about the priming that is called Hags water activation, but in a statement made at the highest level. Environment Minister says, with permission of presidents: In addition to the uncertainty mentioned previously on the effects on sand, natural land modeling, outdoor and tourism, it was unclear how the activation would be adapted. Then it continues to say that the results of the project management were that it did not have a basis for evaluating the activation option without the introduction of fully formed professional groups, regardless of whether such a work course was being carried out by a law on a protection and energy efficiency programme. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that the six members of the body who sign the committee opinion of the greater part and make this adjustment have been fully established in order to assess what the project manager thought to have no basis for doing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u120	A respectable president. Yeah, I think so. We can take this example of how the activation is linked to the distribution system. The committee was concerned that it was unclear where to connect it to the distribution system, that it was not in line, and where the lines were to lie. Now, in this case the line will be placed on the ground, it is in place. That information was given to the committee. There is also a possibility that the line will be internalized into the flip-off action system; there is no need to build a new level of tension for this activation. The point that I feel is that the main issues of Hag-water activation are whether we are ensuring that what has happened there will be stopped or if the activation program will continue to rise. I believe that is a point that needs to be examined in the environmental assessment of this activation. But there is a lot of pressure and wants of the local people, as everyone knows, to improve quality of life in their area and to increase tourism in this area, including with this activation process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think this scene is going on. [[The president calls.]] I think it belongs in an environmental assessment...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u121	Madam President. The answer is what? The senator was thinking that the majority of the committee's members are bound to make decisions that a project manager did not feel that he was willing to assume that professional groups had not been fully appointed. The concept behind the work programme management is to assess all effects; environmental impacts, social impacts, economic impacts, and then order their options in order to be protected, suspended, suspended, or used. I like it. A senator is actually saying that this process is of no importance, that he, along with Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann the son of Pálsson, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eels, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and Gefeldstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmunds, the majority of the professional committees, can only take this to heart. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that a project management of a strategy is really unnecessary? All evidence shows that it had never finished a study on Water Water Waters (Hag) activation. That is now one of the reasons why there is a question of simply standing by a law. Counts them why. A senator has any purpose in continuing his work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u122	A respectable president. Yeah, that's right. That's right. That's right. In many respects, the argument behind Hagah water activation is weaker than the other activations. I am fully aware of that. But that is, in our opinion, the greater part, valid reasons for sending this activation to continue evaluation. If you look at the results of the work now being done and what aspects of it are, we have already received an explanation for some of the comments. I went over the line lines. This will be a ground cord, and the effect will not be there. In fact, there was an incomprehensible and incomprehensible reason why this is stated as an uncertainty issue. Second, I feel unsure of what's going on, that's up to it, and I believe that there's a point that's meant to go through the subterranean environmental evaluations, there's a final decision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u123	Madam President. Hv. The head of the professional road committee, while thinking that a majority of the employment committees are allowed to make a professional assessment of the activation options that have been cut down here on our board of generals and that we should take care of and evaluate. A great deal of criticism has now been observed from agencies such as the Organization requiring support, including the U.S.A. for exocrine induction and Hag water activation. I'd like to hear that argument right now. The head of the trade network and also which companies are waiting for, big companies, big energy users, to buy the energy that would come from all these activations that go into such a professional process by then. The head of the professional road committee is here for quick treatment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u124	A respectable president. I don't know that I've been doing anything for the project management like that. A senator insisted. I mentioned earlier that I felt that the professional group had taken a short time for their work, but I did not comment on it, and I did not doubt what they had received from them, specifically stated it. I did well over the support of the Committee for Water of Hags, and I've been going over it, and I don't have to do it again. With regard to globular activation, the same is true. In the opinion of the committee, I reviewed that there was a very small impact on the environment. There's already a man-made lagoon. It will be one input port that comes, one tunnel, the activation will be based on the tunnel, and line lines from that activation in the ground will be proposed. So the environmental impact of this activation is very small, and I think it's full evidence to continue there, since it was the activation option of the innovation class... Framework... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u125	Madam President. Hv. A member of a professional task management team, I don't think it would be better now than to press a project. Does he think that professionalism is more than just a part of the employment committee and is close to the professional? I'd like to ask you what. Regarding what was observed at the head of the hunting, a senator said that if counter measures were not to be effective, 88% of the salmon stock at Uryrafsai would be upset and 52% of the salmon stock in Holta activation. Has a what? Don't you worry about this? Does he just think it's right that we keep knocking? I'd like to hear it, too. A senator knows the difference between the environmental assessments and the environmental assessments of action. The environmental assessment process will take place in a review procedure where the general public is present, which they do not do in the environmental assessments of action programmes at any given time. A senator seems to want things to happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u126	A respectable president. I don't like to be put into my mouth and told that I'm tying into someone's mouth. I now make it very clear that I am not making comments, even though it brings out the shortness of time. I don't think this sort of thing should happen, and I'll dismiss it. Aren't I worried that counter measures won't work in the lower part of Turbulence? According to the review, which has now been a fairly sophisticated business committee with a number of sources and not just for winter but before, there is no reason to worry about it. But that does not mean that there will be good results. It has been observed in the Vegetarian Institute that no more research has been made or counterweighted in Þjótur, no further study has been made in the Þjórjóðar in this regard. They've had a comment at a Veterans Institute, which is our experts in these issues, including the U.S.A. in these counter-improvement measures, that no further investigation will be performed. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we can do things where nothing happens. Nothing continues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's where we can keep it. There are some who want to. However, it is my opinion and that of others to continue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u127	Madam President. It's getting better at what's going on. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said he took a professional committee and turned it into a project management program to cover it as well as then. A senator put what might be expected, saying what was lacking. Am I correct in my understanding? I want to ask you why. A member of the council to see if it was up to him at work, to review the qualifications of the committee that was needed in the trade groups and the project management. Following that question, I would like to ask why. Senator: The professional assessment behind the proposal to put Water Water of Hags in use is merely the assessment of the job committee? Or what professional opinion is behind that suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u128	A respectable president. To hell with it. A professional professional committee has taken over as a new project management? In this case, of course, it is a professional committee that controls the project, just as it does in any other matter that comes to the council. There were some here talking about what a good thing it would have been if a professional employment committee had not supplied the natural pass. Did we, then, serve as a task management in that sense? Of course, it's about that in the field of the council there's going to be a serious discussion. They send Congress cases to cover reviews. There's a lot of visitors. Is that because of nothing? No, it is to collect information, put it on the scales, and make a decision. That is exactly what the committee has done. In exactly the same way as a minister during the last terms, the review process of the data on the scales and the decision was made to make a series of activations, we are now, on absolutely the same basis, to take a waiting role and move them to use them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u129	Madam President. That's why. Of course, a senator shows that more part of a professional committee is completely out in the field of this proposal, or perhaps more in a ditch, perhaps it fits better in this context. Of course, it is not the job committee's role to step into the task management field and to become part of some kind of project management and to cover the current project. It is only sad to listen to a language like that of a boy. A senator gave up on the fact that it would be most desirable to settle this matter, but then everyone must stop disagreeing with me, everyone has to stop moving on. It is impossible to achieve any results in this way. It's impossible to make any peace with this march. Of course, it knows why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u130	A respectable president. There may well be a problem. A senator feels that a professional body committee is out in the field of this case, as he puts it, and it is absolutely impossible that the committee can step into the task area of the project management. [[Up front.]] On what grounds is the highest. Minister at any given time? Is he not entering the task force of the task management if he changes its suggestions? [[The point is, you don't understand the law.]] I understand the law exactly the same. [[Up front.]] What is the point of sending the matter to the council, having a serious discussion of it, and then making some conclusions from that work? You can interpret it in the way they choose, but it's very clear in the law. There was a purpose in sending the matter to the council, a respectable president. There could have been nothing more than a purpose in getting a verbal discussion and then making decisions based on logic, in our committee's list, and in my opinion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u131	A respectable president. I thank the President for making arrangements for a council meeting. The members of the United States have now taken the time to take their advice and read the Supreme Court's decision. A president, who is a very controversial document. There is a strong demand for a meeting with a president without delay, along with his legal advisers and the attorney for the council, in which the grounds and content of this decision will be considered. It is clear to everyone that not everything is above doubt, and such a meeting needs to be held immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u132	A respectable president. I want to say what I want. paritaprevir The Swavarsdóttirs Svandís Svavarsdóttir for a meeting with the presidents and members of the council. That's because we've reviewed the President's decision, and in my opinion, he's political. It's a baloney political document, it's not a professional decision made by President of the entire council, it's so simple. The decision contains statements that fail and conflict with fine opinions and memos received from the head of the environment and resource department in November, and conflicts with what is directly involved in the report by the Parliament's dissecting proposal for the Hagming, which comes directly from the project. I believe that the grounds for which the president rests his decision on were wrong and that he has to go over the case again. Hence, it is only natural for him to meet with members of the council, receive these material comments, and answer them materially and professionally this time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u133	Mr. President. I agree with the request this has been made that the president of the council meets with members of the council and thus leads to the legal adviser who was in his hand to shape the decision he made orally and that we have been sent. I made comments earlier on the practice that this decision had been introduced in a way that placed to the council classes shortly before a meeting, and then presented orally. Of course, it would have been better to say that this would have been presented in advance, since this is a case that suggests that members of the less part of Congress have questioned the proposal of a greater part of the employment committee to be directly a member of the council. It is not out of the air. Rather, it is based on the opinion of employees at the highest level of the minority. Environment Ministers and staff at the highest level. Secretary of the trade and innovation of the Ministry sent to both sides. Work committee and what. Environment and Transport Committee. Of course, it would have been normal to make tribunal presidents acknowledge the argument behind the decision and do so before a council meeting, but since it wasn't done, I insist that such a meeting be held quickly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u134	A respectable president. It is clear that some if not all members of the head of the head of the Directorates on a job committee have failed to read the information published by the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Employment. There's a lot of poetry in this case. There are memos from these councils that Kristján L. Möller read aloud at the meeting earlier on November 27, 2014, that this simply doesn't work. This conflicts with the highest interpretation. President's been tracking down here. Hence, it is essential that the president of the council meets with the chairman and explain the legal issues behind this decision. Of course, this discussion must be interrupted, and it must be arranged by our most skilled people to determine whether or not the Environment Ministry should be fixed when interpreting the laws under it or this particular decision for which no notes are discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u135	President wants less of it. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, president of the United States Parliament, is to be named members of the Parliament. Councilmen, such as Kristján L. Möller.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u136	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the half-hour we got to take a closer look at this. True, the time could have been longer, but at least he was long enough to agree with the petition presented here, to meet with a dignified president, a council leader, and lawyers, in order to review this decision. Like others, I'm not convinced that he's right. Likewise also the wording of him is weak, and there is no more to say, and there is every reason for this to be clear. Again, there is one of the most controversial issues involved in modern political history. How vital, then, that all forms of communication are well understood and that we are at least content with the form we use to discuss the form that was thought to achieve at some point, one day satisfied with some decisions in this series of issues. It is now more urgent that each step is taken carefully, taking into account all the available facts, and that we will consider this matter as best we can. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u137	A respectable president. Despite warnings and loud shouts from the government opposition, the chairman of the council decided to take this case straight to shore, where it is now coastal. The same could be said of all the big cases of the government, they're all beaches. And it's not just my opinion, it's on DV's cover today, flathead: all the big things on the beach. Therefore, you would have thought that there was good reason for the present administrative part to review the situation and to learn a lesson from last December, when the only thing that the current government could pass through the council was the law of the law, that the time of openness, the time of silence, the time of monotonous decisions without consultation has passed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A president for taking a stand to meet with members of the political parties and reviewing the situation. What is really missing from these assemblies is the opportunity to discuss the matter with the president. As I noted in the first talk, the highest language was given. After this discussion, the president of the Council needs to take a materialistic stand, but it is very difficult to take a physical position when a person does not have all the evidence on the table. There are a number of evidence behind the opinions of both the Employment Department and the Environmental and Resource Ministry that give virtually clear instructions on how to deal with these laws, which have been run out in the highest decision. President. If we are going to try to get somewhere ahead, it is important that we make the same decision. Is the understanding of a greater part of the Generals that the programme is to be slaughtered? [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that it is a sincere resolve, but it will, of course, be opposed because we do not spend 15 years trying to find some form to throw it away in one day. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u139	Mr. President. I'm gonna stick to the Supreme Court decision. President of Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson. Unfortunately, he's not in the audience, so I can't have a word with him. But I happen to pay attention to people who are experts in their own fields, fortunately, we have a Supreme Court attorney here in the gym, the former president of Iceland's Legal Association. What does he say about the following reasoning? All the reasoning is that professional evaluations have been conducted. V.E.G. According to the president, he can support the following reasoning: Four activations, jaculations, and Tridentic activations were previously organized into a series of activations. But what does it say? paritaprevir Domes the Brynjar of Níelsson have to do with Water of Hags? She was never put into anything. Is it not, then, to the conclusion that the decision is wrong based on the underlying logic?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u140	Mr. President. Me, like the rest of them. Councilmen, criticism of this decision and subsequent treatment have already been so clear that a memo is available both from the head of the environment and from the Department of Resources, as well as from the Department of Employment, which goes in the opposite direction. It's not as if a lawyer needed to understand what it says, even if they're being treated in here at the General Assembly. In fact, I think I can understand this well, and I have no law degree, that the Council is not to discuss any priming options that have not received professional treatment in the project management. That's what it's all about. I feel like the highest. The president must meet with the presidents of the statesmen and members of the council and review this position with his approval, and that members of the council can also call a lawyer in order to stay within their hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u141	The president would like to inform you before further discussions about the President's conference board and men begin their case a second time on the program that the president has reason to believe that the President's meeting with members of Congress may become something later in the evening, but not entirely over the next time where... [[For example, a meeting has already been announced at 6:30.]] We already have a party at 6:30, so it's right to have it in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u142	Mr. President. I am glad that this meeting has been preached now to review the decision, for it must be said as it is that we are going to discuss in a material way the substance of this proposal. It is not reassuring when there are doubts about various formal factors, which have been since the decision of a majority of the council to point the case to what? Work committee, cut back. Environment and transport committees that have handled the situation, end of case category at the highest level. Minister of the environment below. No one has yet been able to explain to the one quoted above how the features of protection and use can be accurately defined in a frame plan and that they are to be heard under the different committees of the council. No one has been able to reason it convincingly. I have to say, when the form is not solid, it is difficult to get involved in material discussions until we have at least tried to make peace with one another. So we will not agree on the material aspects of the proposal. That's different. But it doesn't work that we experience at the council that we're trying to ignore the law, the rules, the customs and the routines in the way we work at the council in order to run things through in the power of more things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u143	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the members of Parliament who have spoken here. This in itself is a reason to rejoice, for the president has been proclaiming a meeting that has been called many times after, with the president of the council and members of the council. If that were possible, it would have been wise to do so at the beginning of the discussion. This was not made clear by the chairman of the council earlier today when I asked why the matter was presented as it was done, i.e. The president of the United States read before the United States body in the public assembly hearing from a two - page document in terms of a matter that is one of society's most controversial. Meanwhile, we are faced with the fact that there are not large issues announced for the coming of the next few days, such as decommissionation and other aspects of society that are much more urgent at this moment than pressing a frame plan through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u144	A respectable president. I believe it is important that during the subsequent meeting with members of the council and the president be carefully considered whether or not you really want to put this matter on the agenda, because, apart from the fact that there are disputes in the job market. There's a lot of conflict going on. There are strikes that have a profound impact on the welfare of the country. What, then, are people doing at the Council? The decision to interfere with the provision of the nation's resources is to be made, not only in controversy with the provision of the nation's resources, but also in the decision to disassociate the activities agreed upon during the last council. That's a decision they're making here. I had one meeting on a job committee when this case was being won, and it was clear that the people who did the job thought so. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] This is what this government decides to put first; the national resource-separated war. This is a poor, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u145	A respectable president. At the same time yesterday, when the executives of the government offered a hand, a hand, a hand of agreement in the enormously difficult subjects they deal with, DV was taking up the position on the big issue of the government and building a summary that has this headline: The Great Case Coast. Only eight days left at the General Assembly. It is, of course, a most striking reading. It's a testimony to a completely hopeless task force. What's the next step of the board after yesterday, in this situation with all the issues on the beach? Yes, it is merely trying to calm the situation down by taking a frame plan with a number of changes from the bottom. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson will be on the program. [[The president calls.]] Are there any people surprised that there's nothing special here? I'm glad we're going over the situation at a meeting with a president. [[The president calls.]] But there is also a great need for the administrative part to wake up conscious of the reality in which he lives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u146	V.E.G. President. I figured it as soon as I saw it. paritaprevir Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson's ex - president will appear on the platform once more, saying that he would mention the former president of the police. It's all right. It's all right. I can say exactly what I said last time this case was being discussed, about exactly the same thing, about legitimateity, if men could bring this adjustment. I'll repeat what I said then: The procedure at the council is a matter of Congress. The law on the 48/2011 box does not contain any guidelines for handling matters at the General Assembly. This does not change that, if ever to be done, there are rules that have been followed, they may ultimately be relevant, but, of course, regarding the treatment of the Council of this proposal, the Constitution is valid. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I fully agree with the chairman of the council on his conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u147	Mr. President. I'd like to express my joy that we've had a meeting with the council presidents and the Supreme Court. President at 6:30, because there is a real need for such a meeting. I hope that at that meeting the results of the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Employment, which discuss these matters, and the professional assessment of projects, will also be considered because they have now talked about the professional evaluation of the project authorities, except by Hague Lake. Of course, this is not because a professional assessment of the current work programme management is needed to review the information presented in a 2013 review process and consider them in terms of opinion. It is the professional assessment of the current project management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u148	V.E.G. President. This is where members of the council have been called. V.E.G. The President is going to meet with members of the council and advisers on these findings of the president. I don't think it's natural for a discussion to begin, and the members of Congress not knowing what the outcome will be, because for us who want to stand by a frame plan, the meeting may lead to a dramatic conclusion. It is unnatural to place members in a position to open up the discussion without knowing what line to take. I request that this meeting be postponed and not announced until the meeting of the president has been conducted with the council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u149	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to know that the highest. President, Einar K.. TheGuðfinnsson, is meeting with members of the council for this serious matter, and earlier, it would have been. It's only wise to step out of a situation that's now out of question and I think that men should think a little deeper and look at it seriously to back this matter over their heads out of the short time left of this council and to use the time better than to spend it talking about these matters, which is so much dissatisfaction with society and here. I think that people should just stop the discussion right now, at least until this meeting, use time and put their heads in the water and think about what is burning on society today. To get these activation options into the process by means of some quick treatment is not on the subject of society. It won't burn on the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u150	A respectable president. I thank the president for a meeting with members of the council, but I agree that the authors of the 1st and 2 minority opinions do not have to hold their speeches and stories here before the meeting has been held. Now, the meeting has been announced at 6:30 a.m., and it's about to fall into six, and people have just been ready for the meeting -- euphem. paritaprevir Kristján Möller had just given his speech, and before his turn, I don't think it will work. Other than that, I'd like to thank you for the meeting and also like to wonder if it's not right to call for lawyers from the Environment and Resource Ministry to attend the announced meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u151	Mr. President. I somehow meant that this meeting would be interrupted while members of the council found at the highest station. President. I would like to ask if this is not the correct understanding, since it is obvious in my mind that prominent members of the Committee are doing their business without knowing the conclusion of that meeting. So I ask the highest. The president whether it is certain that meetings will be interrupted as long as members of the council and the Supreme Court are held here. The President's meeting. If not, I want to ask the highest. The president carefully considering the position taken by members of the Parliament who need to present their committee opinion, not knowing the results of that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u152	The president had rather assumed that we would continue our discussion until a recess was made so that the president could meet with the council members, but now he hears the request of the members of Congress otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u153	A respectable president. The matter of opinion rises, and there is good reason for meeting the council groups and the Supreme Court. President. I'm glad it's on his side. I'd like to agree with the demand that a meeting be postponed until the meeting of the council classes and the Supreme Court. President's over. One of the matters of opinion that obviously need to be discussed, not necessarily in a Senate Hall, but, for example, in the matter of consultation by members of the Parliament, is what is proper, if legal, to present as a legal basis for a change in the subject. A matter of Congress was presented here by a minister who discussed one specific activation, Impulsion. A meta-analysis of this is the activation of chills. Very many of us feel utterly unacceptable that some of Iceland's continuum transfunctioners will be based on a very controversial change in this particular case. Granted, members of Congress have the right to make adjustments, but there are a number of habits in these areas. [[The president calls.]] If there's a bill on income tax, I don't make any changes in all kinds of tax laws that don't have a bearing on the side of the case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The same is being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u154	A respectable president. I hear the president's comments, assuming that this meeting will be interrupted while the chairmans of a council meeting with the President for the unfortunate situation established in the council and for the preparation of this case. I think it would be a good idea that the discussion would already be delayed. I see it's on the edge, if this meeting is to begin now at 6:30, that strategist 1. smaller section, va. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, to speak for his opinion. He needs half an hour to do so, and even if he succeeds, he would have to reply to his story talk, probably past dinner break. I would have thought in advance that it would not be easy to conduct the discussion in this way, so it is best to try to settle this matter first at a meeting of the presidents of Congress with the president before the discussion is held.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u155	A respectable president. This is a court order, and according to what I have considered, a ruling is not even referred to the Supreme Court, if that is the case. Still, we will discuss the decision of the Council's president, whether to proceed or not, because some of us feel that he is wrong and do not agree with him. A respectable president. Over the years, there have been many challenges to the project. Now it's in the hall. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótttir, who was in a well-designed mission government, came to believe what would be the most inclined to activate, and then what would be the least unwilling to activate. At the conclusion of that task management, a new project management was created, which, in turn, organized into practical use, waiting, and protection. So in the beginning, they were not organized into the groups here but made up of a new task government, which was placed in charge of the last government. [[The president calls.]] That's the way it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u156	Mr. President. Talking to one another must always be beneficial. Although the President's decision is final, like what? A senator said that he has not been contacted by each president. I'm sorry, but this looks a little bit like someone thought to lead to some particular conclusion that fits the greater part of the employment committee. There are many holes in this worthing, yes, yes. The document is full of holes, and I hope that in the following meeting, it will include what people are not happy with, thinking that they need a much better explanation. The important thing is that we come to some forward conclusion about it, not necessarily that we all agree with it eventually, that is not necessarily our goal, but that here is the ultimate evidence for what we do not feel is that we do not feel right. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u157	Mr. President. In general, I believe that when it comes to legal matters, that's why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, former president of the National Law Association of Iceland, sharpest knife in the council drawer. His explanation was simple and possibly good, I tell you, an unquestioned case. It's absolutely clear to the highest. The president has not gone to his carpenter to seek reason. Reasonably so. The senator was nothing but the ones found in the decision. The decision is based on the fact that a professional evaluation has been performed, and it is therefore justified in putting these five inducers into a colony class. To the extent that four of them were first placed in a series of activations rather than one, Hagah activation. Why is it now put into the primacy of these arguments? It violates the logical context. Of course, it shows how weak it is that even the sharpest knife in the drawer cannot explain it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u158	V.E.G. President. It is true that I was assigned to a project on a frame plan and was made up of prime minister. When a new government took over for the president of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, I remained on the project program as her representative, i.e. Special representative of the prime minister. It is true that we arranged the benefits depending on who had the best source of activation and who had the best protection, but the task management did not classify. That system came in a later time and was assigned to do so, and that work represented the then minister. Of course, such facts need to be maintained. However, this debate over the President's meeting board is beginning to look a little bit over because men have entered the subject so that I simply hope that the following meeting will be effective, the case will come back on schedule, and we can discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u159	V.E.G. President. It is true that I agree with the decision of the council president as such, but I wasn't saying that I had the same basis as he did. I'm just saying, the simplicity is really good at this. A minister could have brought all these fortresses in a Senate resolution. If he can do so, we can make any change. Of course, we can disagree that this is wise, and we can disagree about everything, but this is the conclusion. This is the president's conclusion. So I can't see why there is no basis for a conclusion that we take a material discussion. We don't need to talk about the form anymore. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u160	V.E.G. President. It's a long time ago that you feel that way about discussing this matter materially. I must say for my part, and I hear a lot of senators saying that I'm very at odds with the court treatment here. I feel like we have a law on a frame plan in a real upset state. Before we continue to discuss the pros and cons of some of the fortresses, we must get them to the fore. There is much talk about the rights of the senators to do the other thing, and this is the case. The right of members of Congress is to discuss matters materially with two discussions. However, they must not change much between discussions, making such a difference so much that it must be done on a completely different subject. This case came in here as a proposal from the highest level. The Environment Minister to put a single activation option into a category, a Hagming, was discussed with the previous discussion of the proposal. Is it not a violation of the council's right to change the nature of the proposal so badly that it is all about five initiatives in a subsequent discussion? [[The president calls.]] What's the U.S. senator's right to this sort of trial, chief? President? [[The president would like to ask for a sound in the side room, even if it involves the former president of the law firm and the Supreme Court. ex secretary of state.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u161	V.E.G. President. The material and format are discussed here, and we truly protest the form of the issue as well as the material. What I've already pointed out is that I wish it to the highest. President to have a recession until the meeting of our council groups has been held at the highest level. The outcome of that meeting matters to the president, for the matter is what will be discussed in the House of Congress. It is impossible to put us in a position to start a discussion or to continue a discussion while we do not know what the point is. I think most likely, and it would probably be best for that meeting to lead to the continuation of this subject until it had made adequate adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u162	A respectable president. It stepped here in a pontta. A member of the greater part said that we are advancing into a material discussion. Hv. In his speech, however, a senator usually mentioned what the previous government did. It is good to think that a legal opinion or a decision by a respected president is not relevant to the actions of the former governments. How Congress works can hardly be determined by what the previous government did. Similarly, you'll be a little tired of the arguments here in town, the respectable president, this ◯ he started with the usual use of game schools in the country, that because someone else started some process, it is automatically justified to behave in the same way or even worse. But that's exactly the other way around. V.E.G. The current government should act much better than it feels the previous government has. There is no argument to say that the previous government has met or this, apart from the fact that there is another reason to put things in a waiting party for a precautionary purpose than to put into a novelty party. It's something else, really. [[The president calls.]] Also, what's happening here is different in nature than what happened during the last term we obviously don't have enough time to discuss this. [[The president calls.]] I request again that a meeting be suspended until this has been discussed with the distinguished president of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u163	The president has not seen that further requests were made to discuss the President's conference board. He has listened to the requests of members of the Parliament that the discussion will not be held until there is room for a meeting of the president with members of Congress. In view of the circumstances and times, the president has decided to make an early dinner break, allowing it to allow for a meeting, so this meeting is delayed until 17 p.m. [[Up front.]] Until 7: 00 p.m., but there will be no second break for dinner. The meeting is postponed until 19.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u164	A respectable president. There is no way to figure out which way the greater part is going. This has been a major part of continuing with the worst environmental issue all day, followed by the Environment Minister of the Second Network News Committee and slaughtering the expedition, completely rejecting what the leading committee has been trying to squeeze into the program and destroy peace at the council by presenting the surprising proposals. I must, a respectable president, call for this discussion not to be held until the highest level. Environment Minister, the person responsible for the laws here highly debated whether or not to follow, will be at the discussion. There is a minimum requirement for this to be called out for an explanation of the highest degree. Minister whether the government sector is going completely contrary to Sigrún Magnúsdóttir's policy, the highest. Environment Minister, and whether it counts, as her Ministry considered, in a memo from November 27, last November to the council, that this proposal is not valid. A respectable president. I must stress that it is absolutely impossible for the council to continue this discussion without even the highest point. The secretary of the environment is on the discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u165	As the president came next, he could follow up on the discussion at the highest level. Environment Minister for the discussion, but the president will take steps to do the highest. A minister informs us that her presence is desired and that it is done at length.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u166	A respectable president. Now the news is that in the evening news class of Stopr 2 and then in the kraV it comes to the highest. Minister doesn't support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u167	She's not in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u168	V.E.G. Environment Minister does not support the case, and the minister is not in a house and we are continuing the discussion. A respectable president. Is there no limit to the folly this government offers? It's all in flames for a change in plans. Advisory to the highest proposal. An environmental minister and a man would have thought that it was a political burden and a more serious issue. No, it's not. It shows that once again this government speaks in all directions, and once again it turns out there is no outside, there is no perspective, there is no policy that the government is prepared to follow. V.E.G. Environment Minister must attend and participate in the discussion. That's the only way we can end this nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u169	A respectable president. In the memory of the council, we have complained that there was no consultation with us on this proposal, and there could have been a great deal of conflict and the boring battles that have existed here today. A news transfer of Stopr 2 tonight reveals that there are more people in the government situation who have to complain of lack of communication. Clearly, there has been no consultation between the government parties in these matters. It turns out that it's the highest of its own. The Environment Minister is not at all pleased with the proposal of a more part of the employment committee and asks for peace for the project management to finish the case. Where, then, are we? There is no more part of this matter at the council, not unless the House of forwarding party party members decide to show the people their own platoon environmental ministers no cause, no control over the matter, just its views are worthless. [[The president calls.]] It's an amazing development in this case. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u170	A respectable president. What kind of cartoon are we in? This is where we take the highest. The president of the decision to bring in a decision that was very questionable, but, quite frankly, he went out of his way to try to protect the majority of the Parliament's expeditions to put this questionable initiative through the council, and then the Minister of Environment and Resources comes in the news tonight and tells us, the people, that they prefer to have the original proposal only to stand and specifically that it is opposed to the fact that the Crimeals and Hagues are going through this process here at the council. What's going on? What's been causing us to stand at the end of this case when the government doesn't even know what it wants? A respectable president. This government is absolutely a wait. I think that if you say that you don't look open like you're in DV today, you're gonna get pretty thick when spring is over. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u171	Mr. President. A soul's life deep down. Of course, members of the administrative body have become quite subject to research, and hopefully some scholar is paying attention because there are many good essays and articles in this regard. What I'm worried about is the fact that the Allied Council of Iceland is trying to build the trust of the Americans on their jobs, and then it's not good for us to debate for formalities, whether issues are simply being handled at the council, that the discussion is conducted in this manner, and that there is not a total improvement before the situation is taken up to discuss them. Then, with the recent financial discussion that the matter is not even supported by much of the council, it is not the first time where local ministers are out of harmony with the majority of committees. Mr. President. All of these gather to reduce confidence in our work here. [[The president calls.]] I think it should be a concern for all of us in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u172	Mr. President. It appears that there is a delay after the evening of the compromise. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, president of the professional trade committee, is not just in opposition to the former Supreme Court. Environment Minister Sigurður Jóhannsson, because that's obviously he -- being the highest. The Environment Minister chose to make a definitive motion based on the Management Board of Staff on the One, so we must expect, unless his opinion is established, that he continues to oppose the matter - is now being added to the current highest level. Environment Minister here. And is it certain that there are two of them in the advance? Is it not enough of this kind of compromise? I think so. A respectable president. You can hardly expect us to continue talking about it. The government, in my opinion, has no choice but to call all this compromise back. Then she can come up with a proposal here again in the fall, hopefully she'd come together for something, or something even more intelligent, just give a little peace to finish her work, one or two more years, and then bring it in decently. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u173	A respectable president. I don't suppose that's missing at the highest level. President that there's some crazy disagreement on this matter, and now it's time to go to the highest level. The Environment Minister does not even support the conversion of more part of the employment committee, so we should face reality and stop wasting time on this nonsense. If they are not going to grant that humble, reasonable request, I would like to make another request. V.E.G. A member of the foreign minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, just suggested that the whale explosion be made into a novelty group and he explained why he did it, he did it because he was about to follow the direction of a task programme. I think he would have quite desired to offer more suggestions, Uryrfys e.g., and the activations of the lower part of Turbulence. They were not submitted. If we're dealing with the fortresses, Uryrs, Tanka, Hag Lake, and so forth, I'll make the requirement, and I will formally do it, that I may have two discussions, and that will be accepted as an appropriate treatment for the Council Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u174	Mr. President. I think everyone was very surprised to watch the highest. Environment Minister speaking on the news tonight. One day a committee was named a dual head committee acting under the State. I think it's the best. Environment Minister behaves like a double head. In the second, she speaks of standing with nature and defending it, but then she lets such nonsense go through with it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. You cannot understand when ministers act in such a way that they speak in both directions and do not have to live up to their word or meaning. But might it be the way for candidates to be open to all ends and never stick to their convictions? Is there a senator of the Annexe Party who is thus offered when environmental ministers speak so that these benefits are to be carried out by the task force?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u175	A respectable president. Clearly, the meeting that was held earlier has not been very successful. I think it's getting quite early. When we looked at it, we listened to it. I was kind of finished with a minister of the evening news. I feel that this presentation, of course, is kind of unacceptable, and if you want to continue this discussion, she should sit here in the audience. It would be interesting to know if this is, as I say, another thing where the government parties are split up, that would be interesting. I see that Páll Jóhann Pálsson has already prayed for the word, and he is likely to be able to explain it. It must have been discussed in the forwarding party how to address the issues of environmental ministers and what to do. A senator must be able to recognize the degree of unity and whether he feels that he is a greater part of the council for this. Of course, it's just ahead of us, and it's traced in DV today and it doesn't need to tell us that this government is just to be packed up. The people have already told her that they should pack. [[The president calls.]] This is not a nation's most important subject. It's a pet project. þm. Jón Gunnar's son, who enjoys his limelight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u176	A respectable president. I'm trying to break my habit of using hard words in this fine piece of music, but I have to say that this day is beginning to become one of the world's greatest epidemics I've ever had at the Council, so it's getting kind of silly, if I'm gonna say it right now. Here are 14 senators on the rosary, who will likely continue to speak until midnight, one of which is from the greater part of the government. But the same time these good people are supposed to talk about it here is going to be the highest. The secretary of the environment, apparently, to speak his language in the media. I wondered, " How exactly should we talk about it here? ' Let's wait for the morning news to know how it works. Environmental Ministers feel that we have our argument, and what do we have to say about this matter? How is this discussion to be conducted, a respectable president? This is ridiculous. It had become a most disturbing experience ever since, but it has become just a silly, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u177	A respectable president. All I want to do is call the president's attention that we're now short for 15 minutes to 8 and that we've had one discussion at the council today. One talk is completed by many yet to be delivered. It is clear that much of the risk is that more is involved in the changes made by the employment committee and has been submitted here. What is it that hangs on to the top of the stick? Governments and the administrative part of putting this matter on the agenda? The DV front page headline today is: They're not stuck here at the council or in discussions, they're not held hostage in this room. No. They are held hostage in the government, in the Ministry of Financial Affairs, by members of the government's members, and they can't get anything because there's a perfect disagreement between the government parties and there's no task management in the government. There is no one who can settle differences between the administrations. [[The president calls.]] That is why such a matter is scheduled because there is nothing to discuss here. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing from the government you can talk about here except for some bullshit like that. þm. Jón Gunnarson. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u178	A respectable president. I understand why. People here in the hall, most of them, are afraid to take up the discussion and work on this matter, to be objectively discussed. This is not a conference proposal made by a minister, either the current environmental minister or the former. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] No, this proposal is a transition from a professional committee. This is a transition from a professional committee, and here are the results of the second stage of a Framework Programme and these are all in there, even Hagwater activation. [[Up front.]] [[The point is: What is the point?]] It is organized into the highest national and regional scores of 77 points. Former Environment Ministers should now know these issues, which, with violence, took advantage, where there was the highest possible option. One former minister had prevented them from engaging in violence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u179	A respectable president. I decided to say something here. I don't think there's anything wrong with the language. ... anticoagulation. Whether there is any disagreement in the government home on these changes the more part of the employment committee will likely be answered in the Ministry's question period when they are on this schedule, probably later this week. That gives members of Congress the opportunity to call at the top of the hall. Counsellors and take them through the matter. Now, the majority of the employment committee proposals are being discussed, and I'm impressed. Congressmen to stop this filibuster that appeared to the nation in one of their most unfavourable forms, half-evity, I think, a respectable president, I must use that word for it. I encourage people to start a conversation on these matters so that we can face up to one another and discuss what this matter is all about in a grammatical way. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u180	At the top of the discussion, a request was made earlier. The secretary of the environment would be there for the discussion. The President has that information to the highest level. Minister is due in a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u181	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. The Environment and Resource Minister will be here for the discussion. I want to pray to the highest. The president to let her have her first on the rosary so that she can enter the discussion and explain her position on the matter. It's a political upset. It is, naturally, incredibly embarrassing to have to listen to a joke and a joke at the hands of someone else. The head of the pro board. I don't know if he's going to ask a minister in an unsubstantiated question period what they think. You can now remember that the situation has become such in the administration home that there is likely a need for communication so that you can consult one another in an unpublished period of inquiry. That may be so. A respectable president. Nothing less is involved in this case than the reimbursement of more part of the employment committee, and we turn to real projects that are being offered to the council. It's below all the caves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u182	A respectable president. Hv. The president of this court determined whether this case was arranged, and he did so on the grounds that there was an adjustment in the proposal to the Congress from the highest level. Environment and resource minister. Then two professionals from the pro board come up here and say, "This isn't a minister, this is our proposal. In other words, proper President, all the reasons for this situation have changed. They have exposed their view of it as their new proposal, and they have decided to bring it in so fast that it would go through. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. The president was ridiculed here in the talks of these two senators. [[Up front.]] [[Taken out: Changes...]] He was mocked because he was deceived into making false judgments. [[Take it up: Change proposal...]] This is a new proposal that has nothing to do with a minister. Sadly, the proposal for a minister is the one on the program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I request that this meeting be postponed and discussed on the right grounds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u183	There is a possibility that we are here on the basis of a synonym and, on the other hand, an adjustment made by a greater part of the employment committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u184	A respectable president. It looks like this: The callers want to activate, and the rest of us, we're supposed to stop this shit. [[Up top: right.]] I'm gonna be crying here all day after a week and the next. [[Foreground, I hope.]] [[Take it up into the next one.]] Why? Because I hate this bullying and this fragility. There are laws on how to decide what to activate, what to protect, and what to hold. It took a long time to build and accept the law. They were approved here by a accordion. We had a minister of the environment who would have probably wanted to do more, but he follows these laws and is just confident to suggest that one priming option should go to a category, injuggment, on the basis of these laws. That's a suggestion. Therefore, there are proposals for the establishment of Uryrofos, Holtician activation, and Hag water activation in a radical order. [[The president calls.]] They're very radical. They are not based on legitimate foundations. [[The president calls.]] If such a suggestion is made, it would be minimal, I restate upon it, that it would come as a special proposal, for it must be treated in the council, two discussions, and the treatment of the Senate committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u185	V.E.G. President. As discussed in the discussion, it is interesting to observe, first of all, to listen to news and to get the highest stand. Minister of the environment, let's hear it here. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the professional committee, and why. Paul Jóhann the son of Pálsson. Actually, they've both said here that they're making a new suggestion. They're making a new suggestion, ending if you read it, they're making a new suggestion. This is to be done so that after the whole review process of the first proposal, this is the one to be discussed at the council, the only discussion of the most delicate matters we will discuss in Icelandic society. If this isn't the worst type of premise, then I don't know what it means when you talk about it. I challenge the person to stick to the original proposal, let her get normal coverage - it would have been long gone if only men had done it - and then, after the project management has concluded it, they can move their own suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u186	Mr. President. Thank you very much. President for making arrangements that the Environment Minister might be at the discussion. Hv. The head of the professional trade committee has said that there is a political problem over nothing. I think it's quite modest on the part of my husband. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son to view more of the employment committee and its proposals as nothing. [[Up front.]] There may be no nonsense, and I think there's more to worry that the heads of the administrations are just sleeping at home with silver, and there's nothing to do at the council. It is clear that both ministers of the government have been appointed to this party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson first, and now Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, the daughter of Magnús. Environment Minister has both come to the conclusion that there is one option to make a suggestion. It seems, though, that there are no government foremans who cope with the madness of the greater part of a professional committee. [[The president calls.]] To be honest, this is in no way an acceptable situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u187	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson seems to think that not only is he above the law but he trades the position of the minister of the seminary, the cabinet minister of the government as a matter of course. I'm sure a senator will support, neither will he. It's like whisk. A senator believes that the Senate's professional committee is operating in a land of law and political nothing. [[Up front.]] Of course it doesn't work this way. It's got to teach you what to do. A senator of manners, he can't be ashamed, Mr. President. That's what they said in my home country. And I don't enjoy it much. He speaks of people having language because of nothing. It's not just because of nothing that I'm totally in opposition to the proposal and the natural thing to do. It's at stake, for example, the largest wild salmon stock in the North Atlantic. It's nothing, isn't it? I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should begin to realize that he is not in town that he is able to control all things by violence. [[The president calls.]] It won't be like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u188	Mr. President. Like other senators, I listened to the news for dinner earlier, and I heard the top news. Environment Minister declares that she did not support the proposal under consideration. We've heard from the highest, too. Seafood and agricultural ministers, formerly the highest. The minister of the environment, and he made the suggestion, and he has also opposed this proposal. I'd like to ask the president if he'd been investigating if there's really more to the proposal we're discussing here or if it's just a little bit easy to keep the council busy with discussing a proposal that doesn't have more part in the council during the period of employment. Of course, we should be dealing with this rather than discussing a suggestion that does not even have the support of much of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u189	Mr. President. Hv. Councilmen, my colleagues on the job board, became fully informed earlier during the discussion when they demanded that this be a proposal for the job committee and would not teach it in any way at the highest level. Minister. You have to make a personal decision in this regard. When criticism comes, it must come to the top. Minister is offering one motion according to the proposal of the project and the highest. The Environment Minister is very involved in this progress, they wave it only as their proposal, but if it's a proposal for the job board, it's an independent proposal made by men to handle it like any other case at the council. I think people should just hang out and take it to the fall council and do it like men, not bring it to safety at night to get it all wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u190	A respectable president. Just to correct all misunderstandings so they don't get it wrong. Maybe I'm getting the wrong idea, but if I understand the opposition, she's arguing on this change proposal, that the adjustment proposal is completely ludicrous, not the Congress resolution that came from a minister. To be clear if there have been some who misunderstood these proposals, we have a greater part of the employment committee. In the package of this recommendation from the Minister, all these activation options are so I can't understand that this is different, at least at the highest possible cost. former minister of the last government ignored a frame plan and changed the proposal from the project management, thereby taking out activation options. Similarly, I cannot understand that there is anything different about adding activation options in this document.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u191	A respectable president. Of course, when the national environmental minister comes on television, he says that he does not support this matter. The government proposal comes from the minister, and the minister refuses to support it. It means in itself that this is the motion of the members of the committee; it is quite right. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson says. It is worth reminding him, too, that the original proposal had become a great act of peace, supported by the order of the ruling parties as far as it was concerned. On the other hand, a senator seems determined to destroy and destroy. In the light of the words, it has become urgent. Environment Minister to get a precise head count in the management team on whether or not the proposal is supported by the greater part of the General Assembly, and it is particularly important to see who the candidates are planning to place themselves under the flag. þm. Jón Gunnar's son and who will stand with his environmental minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u192	Mr. President. It was clear to the president that this case would be limited to the government, which had already declared that she could stay until spring if that was the case. I agree with what's been said here. It's a freckle government because they think they can do it. They ignore certain opinions about the interpretation of the law, including those of the councils, and they claim that they are better qualified to accept it, which is in the sense of the framework we have been trying to follow. They do not need to consult a project management because they have professional food in their hands, they can control it, and they have much more to say about it than do those who are qualified to do so. This is what it's all about. [[The president calls.]] But I'm asking the highest. President: Is there no other issue the government can bring in here, or does the president feel this is okay, knowing that meetings for the next few days can be like this? [[The president calls.]] We're not going to hide it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u193	Mr. President. Hv. The head of the professional road committee earlier said that he loved this unfashionable, calling it a mess. I'm not surprised he thinks it's unbecoming. I would also find it unsurpassed if my statement was exposed on the first day of a discussion, during the first few hours of a discussion, when first of all, it says that there is serious doubts about the possibility of a major part of the professional committee being held in Congress, that it will be established and that it will be established by tradition and tradition at the council. We will have a better look at it. Second, a lawsuit is made clear. A major part of the work committee, Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's, was that this was comparable to what happened during the last term. It was a very different matter, for as we know who read the Law on a frame plan, it was considered a narrative received in a legal narrative, and it was a minister who did so, as defined in a legal narrative. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm worried about what. Congress members of the greater part of the employment committee that make this suggestion have simply not read the laws on the framework. That's a bit of a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u194	A respectable president. Of course, much of the legal error being committed to this case is a very serious concern. He does not realize that he is going outside his legal rights under law, because the law clearly states that a business administration is a business administration that makes professional evaluations, but it also clearly states that in a case comparable to what happened during the last term, ministers should make a recommendation thereafter. That's the fundamental difference I think it's important to you. Congress members of the greater part of the work committee are beginning to realize. And so it is that it must have to be advertised by the government's responsibility to bring in a case that is subject to the interests of the homes and the survival of the people when uncertainty increases in the labour market, as conflict increases in the community. Does this government have anything to declare? Doesn't she have anything to contribute? Is there no solution to tax issues, to health matters that matter? Where are the solutions for housing? [[The president calls.]] Why can the government not bring matters that are somehow divided into the council rather than bring up matters that may even not be enjoyed solely in the administration? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u195	President wants to decide what. Congress members under this program are not to discuss the points of the subject on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u196	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of a professional committee, says that the government's going to cry, and I'm going to cry a little bit more. Now I'm gonna be crying about it for a while. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson spoke earlier. I'm worried about what. A senator has not studied the Law on a Framework Program, No. 48/2011. The majority of the employment committees do not know the law. Has a what? A senator did not read a preliminary law that says how to handle the first synopsis at the council? Has a what? The senator did not read Article 10. The law that says about the process? This whole thing is in an image form from the beginning. We don't even know if there's more to it. I'd like the president to take the case off schedule and allow matters that are acceptable and worthy to be discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u197	A respectable president. I've been wondering why the greater part and a respectable president would love to have this matter on the agenda. I just can't figure it out because there's one of the most controversial issues in Iceland's modern political history. It was anticipated that there would be a lot of talk here, natural, that there would be a lot of arguments, etc. There's a debate about everything, from beginning to end, about the form of it. Today has been a day where you have had to write a lot to find out exactly what has gone wrong here in every form. But the stone was taken out by the highest. In the media, a minister declared that he was opposed to the case, but we in the smaller part, the first 12 speakers on the rosary, are to talk to one another about it without any response from the highest level. Minister, I'm guessing for the next four hours and probably tomorrow and Friday. [[The president calls.]] I wondered why. Why are we here? [[The president calls.]] What should we talk about? While it's missing the highest. We have nothing to do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u198	The president has previously informed the highest level. Environment Minister is expected in a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u199	A respectable president. I have to say as part of this discussion that this code of the memory of the part is on very thin ice and not too short to reason. In order to eliminate any doubt, the debate has been held that there is no more to this matter at the council and that this is done by overcrowding and aggression, not by democracies, which is exactly what we are doing. We're offering a greater part of a council through the government. It is not new, and it may be remembered many similar points from the last term in which some members of Congress or Ministers may not go completely in step. There are exceptions in this government. It is true in this case with one minister, but it has its own opinion, while the government and government leaders are absolutely complete behind this transition. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no need to worry about the fact that there is no more involved. [[The president calls.]] I ask people to drop this filancy here and start a business discussion on this subject so that other good things we are calling out for can come on the schedule as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u200	V.E.G. President. It is evident that the discussion of President's conference management is immediately valid. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson responds in this way. I'll direct them to the highest level. President that it is no longer enough to get here the Environment and Resource Minister, we need other Ministers to confirm that this proposal is transferred by the government. That's what was said here, the government's help. The officers of both classes, I think it's important to have them here in the room to confirm that. Second, I'm going to ask for it at the highest. The minister here to be 101 of the seminar classes, so they can see what the process was and what we were discussing. If no one has understood the procedure, there is reason to take a small course around it before it will be permanently destroyed as planned. After this matter is discussed, it is also important, but it has been sent back once and is greatly improved. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we start doing this and just skip this discussion until there's a better explanation for what's going on here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u201	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. The secretary of the environment is on its way to the chamber. Listening to what is happening is very disturbing. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is speaking like he's a representative of the Iceland government and the highest. The secretary of the environment is just a co-ordinates object, and he makes it clear that the senators of the House of forward are not on the side of their minister. There won't be any meaningful discussion until she's been in the room. V.E.G. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who made this case at his time as environmental minister, also had a serious disagreement with the training of the head of the professional road committee regarding the adjustment of the proposals. I don't think it's entirely disturbing for the candidates that a member of the Independence Party will leave behind their Honourable Minister one in the open field.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u202	V.E.G. President. I've seen a filibuster at the General Assembly many times. It's not a filibuster. We are listening to the subject and convincing comments made by members of the Parliament regarding this matter, questioning the legality of the procedure on which the Senate is based. It's not a filibuster. I reviewed it in one comment the other day under this same team that one of the most impenetrable issues we've seen at the General Assembly in recent decades is Kálán's activation. So we tried to unite in another process. Now it's coming down from that process. And I'm gonna ask, at least. Mr. President: Is it time for us to stop discussing this framework plan and let's just discuss The Generator, and let's just discuss some of the individual activations? [[The president calls.]] Because it is where the government and the government are concerned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u203	Mr. President. What is one environmental minister, or even two...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u204	Now the president has made a mistake. According to the books, it will be that way. A senator has twice talked about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u205	I didn't think so. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u206	Is it possible to hand over the quatane?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u207	Isn't it the macrovot?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u209	Isn't he on the 95-year rule yet?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u211	It is good that this discussion is over with this kind manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u212	V.E.G. President. This beautiful summer evening here in Reykjavík, where the sun is bright and the cold is the highest. Government and government, to the following at the Council: A churning bill of great opposition, and 31 thousand of Icelanders have challenged the President to refer it to a national law. The government was going to change the fishing system, but the government was going to change it. A secular minister said that opposition within the governments is not possible. Housekeeping bill has been sent to the Department of Social Affairs with a package of energy rods up to the Ministry of finance, where it sits firmly. Another home bill is also attached there. The banking board has been discussed here in a large dispute. The advance team is opposed to putting it down, and people have used bullies to bring it into the right position by the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, the future candidate Frosti Sigurjónsson. The same is true of possible banking sales, the forwarding party has concluded. The government also offers letters from the highest level. Foreign Minister for the EU to the European Union, which no one understands or may not understand either. Exploitation has taken place, but there is a major conflict between the presidents of the government groups at the highest level. The prime minister wants to go about some sort of bankruptcy route during the highest level. The secretary of finance wants to do business. The debt correction, the largest and greatest campaign possible for the world, based on an appeal number, was betrayed in a memorable way, with 300 billion coming from the so - called vulture funds, becoming 80 billion, and taken as tax, and now afflicting the entire population of the country, with a higher interest difference and all kinds of payments at the banks. The natural pass. Hv. The senator, president of a professional trade board, Jón Gunnarsson, has published a death certificate for the natural pass. Transporting Fish Room. V.E.G. A seafaring minister has been reassigned on that matter. Today, a fishing room is virtually out of work because 13 workers have been derailed because of uncertainty. A fishing room has said, "We can't do anything about the mackerel we're meant to do because it's all upset. " Evolution - this is a burning civil strife at the highest level. The minister of state is in some incomprehensible campaign against that institution. The Union of Oceanographic Institute and Fishing Agency, which has not been discussed much, is on a work committee, where the government has made a decision to change the course of unions by expositing all employees before, each and every one of them. This has now arrived as a memo - the famous memos that come to us on a professional stationary committee, as we have seen today. And so to all employees, a new route. A burning battle in the labour market as never before in the Icelandic history of late. System plan was here in great opposition and controversy, but it was named before the 3rd. and was able to make a little more peace with her. And now the 16th thing that I list, a frame plan. A respectable president. I was chairman of a industrial committee when the laws on a frame plan were taken here through the council, the many-sized law of No. 48/2011. There we became members of the Committee to form a solid agreement on the changes in the laws that were then agreed to agree here at the General Assembly. I had hoped that we were taking a big, important step in very controversial affairs and lawsuits that had caused much controversy in the country, moving us to a more organized and better response. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's why I say, a respectable president, that what the present government is, and the greater part of the government is good about putting everything in the attic in society, flogging wolf, creating wars, even wars, and a lot of debates. Honorable President I'm going to recommend my share of the employment board I'm appointing as a proposal for the resolution of a political resolution of a strategy for the protection and energy use of territory, No. 13/141. A Law on Protective and Energy Administrative Programs, No. 48/2011, as I have previously said, agreed together in May 2011. With the consent of the law, the lawgiver decided to establish a legal structure in the management of a frame plan. It clearly explains how to plan for the change in land protection and energy efficiency programme. With the law's approval, there was hope to minimize any conflict of extraordinary activations when the law had come into effect and that the procedure there would be legalized and relatively clear in the law. 3 mg. Section 3. The law says that a protection and energy efficiency programme will include initiatives discussed by the Project Management Board, and therefore it is behind the fact that the Council does not take sides with others but has been discussed by project management. A smaller portion is considered important when switching between classes in the schedule or in addition to new ones, to be fully followed by the procedure required by the law. If this is done, 1 smaller things are more likely to get better at the whole plan. The current program was adopted in the 141th legislature. Before the proposal was discussed by the General Assembly, a temporary minister had sent proposals for a category that had come from the heads of the task management committee in an open discussion procedure. After this ensuing process, the minister made a decision to remove the following benefits from the waiting category: Urras reactivation, Holta reactivation, Imaging, Hyperventilation I, and Sharkic activation II. It was expected that the decision-to-treat at the General Assembly would address the advantages of a step 3 step-by-step program, i.e. The current task management. The proposal by the Environment and Resource Minister is now proposed to restore the whale activation into a colony after the project has submitted the proposal for a minister. And it's right to shoot in here, a respectable president, that the former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, did not rely on any more benefits than one, and that is in accordance with the law in my opinion. So, as the law expects, the task management has completed its coverage of the energy efficiency initiative. Thus, the 1st minor object strongly protests a proposal for a change to the synonym that goes as far as it really is seen. The suggestion of more part goes against the law. Not only does the greater part decide not to delay the results of the Project Management Board's Reevaluation of Uryr-restraining, Holling and Scrotor also decide to add to the Neodivert order a proposal for energy efficiency that has not been completed by project management, i.e. Rag water activation. In comments to the current proposal that early in the process, it became clear that there would be no way of obtaining data that would be lacking in order to submit a secretary a revised proposal for some energy efficiency, including rock - century activation and Hagwater activation. Among other things, she did not have the basis for evaluating any doubt about these advantages without having full - time professionals. The mission director made this clear at meetings of 8th October and 5th November 2013. Notes we make about the point that the project management feels the need to provide more information on. The Project Management Board discussed the activation option of During the first few years and included a professional group to review more details received from the activation provider. The project manager suggested that HST be transferred from a waiting category to a energy response party. Then she stated what factors would be needed to provide information on how to take into account the possible entry of Holtic activation and Urtic acid reactivation between classes. The first minor part points out that part of the cost of growth has not been covered by the current task management, which was assigned to discuss the benefits of its legislation. The precautions described above are found, among other things, in the multistory memorandum of the Industrial and Energy Office in the Ministry of Employment and Development, which is involved in this opinion. Furthermore, a memo to the Environment and Resource Ministry from November 27, 2014, points out that the Ministry rests entirely against the changes in the development of more parts of Curiothian activation and Hague water activation, which include the permission of a president: In view of previous coverage, it must be concluded that since a project management was not dealing materially with five specific activation initiatives, i.e. Gangs I and II gangs, Hag Lakes and Hólstäi v/Atley, like law No. 48/2011, if the proposed activations are still in the management of project management by the Ministry of Environment and Resources. The task force has not provided a suggestion for the classification of these costs to the minister and the interpretation that is now available to the Council does not cover the costs. Then comes this balance of gold from the Minister of Environment and Resources - which I am very pleased to be here in the hall to hear my case and others discussing it - which says, under the permission of the President: Therefore, the Environment and Resource Ministry's assessment of the law of No. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. A respectable president. This is a memo, this is a legal opinion from the Environment and Resource Ministry. This is a solution to these changes I'm saying, without hesitation, that those people who don't agree with the way the most part is going to go here could sue. Then I think there's better meat on the bone for those who begin this legal opinion from the Environment and Resource Minister and the Ministry. More than that, a respected president, would it be necessary that legal procedures under the law have not been followed? A first memory section also points out the comments made by the European Union's company on the case that put it word for word, allowing the president: It has been said that governments must place great emphasis on the decision-making of activation options based on professional views. The Framework Programme aims to ensure that long-term thoughts and evaluations of the total interest in energy efficiency and protection of land regions are at least dependent on the government at any given time. The decision process must be clear and careful so that, as much as possible, the results of a framework plan can be resolved, there is a risk that there will be little or no respect for the results of a framework plan. In view of the above points, the relationship does not recommend that the greater part of the Generalis agree to the implementation of activation initiatives, which the Work Programme 3 step 3 has not taken sides, from a waiting category to a novelty class. A respectable president. My first part also wishes to comment on the lack of preparation for the cost of their policy of peace that the General has concluded to be a code of protection. If there is a real agreement to create a frame plan, it is important that the implementation of the synopsis adopted at the General Assembly, in accordance with the above laws, be kept equal between the protection and energy unions. Thus, the 1st small percentage protests that the peaceful description of the areas of protection is not yet under way. But the purpose of the law is protection as much as energy efficiency. Law No. 48/2011 says: ▪ The Agency shall be established when the Allied Council has agreed with a national protection and energy efficiency programme set in motion for a peace-depth environment which is a reason for peace reporting about energy efficiency according to the programme's guardianship. This has not been taken into account by the current government and encourages the 1st smaller part of the government to begin already in preparation for the peace descriptions of the areas that can be found in the Preservation Programme. The first smaller section feels that the procedure adopted was non-fiction with the approved law of No. 48/2011. The results of the project management should be met and respected. So the first memory is against the changes made by the greater part, counting the way of the spare, promoting an even greater fight over the group of events, and resisting legal procedures that are likely to require long, difficult postmortems. This opinion was made at the General Assembly of 29th April of this year and signed by the one listed here, appointing the 1st of the Committee. A respectable president. Now, I'm going to make a little leave in my speech and ask the highest question. Environment and resource minister in half. First, what I was reading right here at the end of my committee opinion about the reservation. I'm going to the top. Ministers to employ capital gains for what has been organized into a reservation and the peace-enforcement and protection process begin? Or it should be the way it has been for the two years at the highest. Government, nothing done about this? A respectable president. In my opinion, if the law on a frame plan is to create some peace, but then I always have hope, energy use and protection must be the same, energy efficiency must not be taken away. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to what I have mentioned, and the memo sent by the Ministry at the request of the Committee. It states strongly that it is the evaluation of the Environment and Resource Ministry that the Act does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs as the legal process of protection and energy efficiency did not occur. It's a very important, respectable president, to the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister will be here to answer these questions and allow us to hear their opinion. At the same time, I'd like to use this opportunity to thank her for the depth of tonight's television news, which she said would have preferred to suggest that her predecessor be made up of the whale trade alone. As a rule, Hagwater activation and the exorbration were not fit at all in this house. I think it's very respectable when the senators and ministers speak so plainly as they do. I've made the subject of a memo from the Environment and Resource Ministry. In my opinion, there is also a memo from the industry and energy office at the Ministry of Employment and Development. This is because of the same request made by us on the committee to the council to give our opinion because when the committee came up with doubts, including those who did not know what to do. from me and other members of the council, that this could be done in this way without the legal process being carried out. True, the Department of Employment does not speak as irreversibly as the Environmental and Resource Ministry in its memo, yet it says, by permission of the President: ▪ The action and preparation of the resolution of Congress to the General Assembly will be discussed in a detailed way in paragraphs 9 and 10. The laws (works of project management, procedure and procedure). Track No. 48/2011 does not state what authority the General Assembly has to make adjustments in proposals to be concluded on the basis of the law. In general, according to Article 3, when a minister has a ministerial servant, it can be considered as a matter of course. The Order of the Council of Parliament suggests that the matter be strictly custody of the Generals as it is of proposals to the council in general, according to the General Assembly Act. A respectable president. Here I'd like to say that my evaluation is that after all the legal procedures under the law and secretary of law, if all legal procedures under the law have been made, it will never be taken from the generals to move laws or vote for their own conscience. They can change, but in my opinion not until the legal process has taken place. Therefore, because a legal process has not been made in our memory and in the highest estimates, it is not possible to use such a short route as the major part is going to do here. Environment and resource minister. This will be discussed more in the workforcer's memo. I don't have time to go through it all, but I want to refer to what it says, and I want to say at the end of the memo that there's also a lot of doubt about this process, even though it's not so far worked out as it is at the Environment and Resource Ministry. But the memo contains a lot of doubt, and I want to say, more honored President, that this is, of course, a legal explanation. I can agree with most of what it says, and to repeat what I said earlier that I make a great distinction between whether the legal process has taken place or not, because it is always the democratic institution, the General, who has absolute authority and I once again reiterate that it is after this process. A respectable president. In 2007, at the beginning of the government of Independence Party and Commonwealth, then, the Supreme Ruler. Industrial minister Össur Skarphéðinsson's frame plan re-started. It had been a long time at work, probably since 1995 or 1998, if I remember correctly, but there was a real power in it. Inga Jónasdóttir's daughter, a former mayor in Dalívík, was appointed director of the work force, and there was a great job, which ended by the proposals. In the meantime, these laws are passed. At first, there was no peace with that bill. But as I said at the beginning of my speech, the then industrial committee managed to bring the representatives of all classes into solidarity of changing the bill, making it a law. I told them as manager of the Committee's View of the Committee that I hoped we had been able to take a big, important step to further reconciliation in this series of issues. It is discussed, if I recall correctly, in the opinion of the greater part that there may be a reason to go through these laws only for four years and to revise them. The experience may have shown that some factors need to be settled or defined better. It would be wish it could succeed. A respectable president. In my closing minutes, I'd like to cover only 1 0th. When the bill was presented, projects and procedures were discussed. The Ministry Department's memo, which is a legal text with a bill that has become legal, says of 10. ... withauthority of the President's permission: Then it's 3 mg. 10th par. a specific legal procedure to be performed prior to the granting of the final proposals of the programme management to the Minister. A respectable president. It is recommended in 3 mg. the legal process to be performed prior to the granting of the final proposals of the project management to the Minister. And it also discusses in other paragraphs how a minister should proceed, because he is not bound by a project management proposal, he can change its proposal, but then he should advertise that change. The committee increased the reporting process at its time from eight weeks to twelve weeks because it was thought that amateur societies and others who wanted to give envelopes would need more time. It was done. However, a minister also needs to advertise all subsidiary so that all the people, all of them, can make comments, not just associates, because in the law and in the explanation, it is said that anyone who wants to be concerned can make comments or turn in the comments. In the 10th. and many more paragraphs are discussed on the legal procedure to take place. That's why I'm critical of it. Actually, I'd like to say that once I read all of this over with the two notes in my hand, I could see that there was too much doubt too much to recommend. And as I've said before, if anyone sues for these changes here and says, "It hasn't been a legal procedure under the law, etc., it's all legal evidence. What, then, has happened with this? Yes, the original suggestion for bringing ARR to a colony may fall there and delay this operation for some year. And my criticism is, among other things, because I agree with what has been said here that we could have finished before Christmas the Qualification Act on Aggressive Enforcement as it was submitted. For my part, I say, of course I would have supported her. I'd like to see more hydropower activation mechanisms in the Neo-continent class and fewer geological instruments. I've said it before from this speech chair and I'll repeat it. I think it's totally crazy that the flamethrowers are a novelty class. They're supposed to be a talisman. I'd like to say the same thing about a fluffy neck. But that was the conclusion. And that's why I say we're supposed to start the hydro-engineers, and that's why, as I'm saying, I'm backing up the motion for Hahmiactivation. Indeed, we need energy, not just for heavy industry, we need energy for the public, tourism companies, seafood companies, seafood companies in the northeastern part of the world, because they don't get electricity and so on. Of course, the world's countries use their resources to create a better society, making income to use, for example. In social, health, and other matters, they will be reassigned into exports, not giving us Icelanders. However, there was to be a code law that was designed to create a process of greater agreement, taking out the issues of controversy that would include It was reflected in the discussion of Kärilla's Healing. A respectable president. I'm afraid this flumbrush will delay this process. And I don't hesitate to argue that if we had completed the only Whawl Syndrome and these changes made before Christmas, it would have been the start of a waiting party and work and preparation. Let us always keep that in mind, more dignified president, that even if something is approved in a framework program, the environmental assessment remains. This does not mean that objects will be activated. There may be a number of factors in the environmental assessment process that result in the loss of the induction. A respectable president. I encourage members of Congress and particularly the administrative body to read paragraphs 9 and 10. Because it explains what the legislatures expect the legislature to do in preparation for a party-separation proposal. That's very clear to me, very clear. And therefore I am sorry for this, and I repeat what I say: I fear that this will delay the whole process. A respectable president. There's more to say about these articles I've made up here as a subject than since I had to account for my committee party, I'll come to that later. I'll probably have one or two or even more talks on this matter because I'm interested in it. [[Up front.]] It's my heart's business. I reiterate what I said before, I think the need to use resources for activation in a certain way, but I don't want to see all of the activaters, and that's why this process was supposed to protect certain areas. I can also say at the end, and I think I said it before, because I've talked about The Bolts, and I've talked about the fluffy neck, that I'm a big hit on Urfrador. I was impressed when I asked a representative of the National Institutes of Railing in this area how much the activation would reduce in megawatts if a fall was taken up to allow the fallwater to come out and protect the falls. I was surprised at what this question in itself was surprising. And that's the thing to look at. But let us not forget that these falls are beautiful, and a frame plan is also to be used in resource areas to protect tourists, ourselves, and our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u213	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for an extensive and well - mannered public speaker was well - versed. As he says, there is always an intense conflict between protection and innovation, so you wonder what would cause it to become a peace - breaker. This is shown in a committee program. A senator, and it has also been observed elsewhere, that in the peace descriptions, only 28 million were meant, but still, in budgets for 2013, and that was the decision of the previous government. Since then, a dollar has not been put in terms of peace. Counts 'em out. A senator who offers some reconciliation in this series of languages, which is so controversial when they do not let a single cent on emancipating sites or sorting them and carrying on with that assignment?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u214	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. It normally deals with the peace-declaring regions that I did a great deal with my committee, and it criticized the current government for not giving money to this peace-making scheme and a peace description that the General Assembly has decided. Hv. A senator asks: Is it a way to make further peace if the government does nothing with the peace or protection party? No, it's not over. I said in my speech: The government must ensure what the Generals agree to and provide for it. The energy companies have enough money to go to what they put into a novelty party. The Council and the Government must provide funds for what is to be protected, and that is what the government is supposed to do. That's why I asked the highest. A minister sitting in the hall waiting excitedly to hear her answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u215	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The salmon population in Þjórjódra too has been a lot of the discussion, and some have. Senators have spoken as if they were the most researched stock in the world, that's it, that's it, that's it, and that's it, but there's not a single case there. It was observed by the Organization that it did not have sufficient evidence of bringing activations into the lower part of the surgical wound in use. I wanted to hear some attitude. A senator with regard to what we heard at the moment. The employment committee, that if so-called counter-mortem measures were unsuccessful, 88% of the salmon population at Uryrofos left and 52% of the salmon strain in Holta activation. Are we here to take such a risk in this wild, unique root we have in Þjótur? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u216	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator makes the salmon stock of Þjótur as a subject of later exposure to me and the final plan that he needed to study better. Therefore, the fortresses were not organized into a novelty party, as the task management had suggested. We were on a work board alone, and also when we were meeting with an environment and transport committee before the vote was adopted, i.e. The second time, we've listened to the party talk about it. I take a great deal of note to my farmer Orri, son of Vigfússon, a great salmon specialist, who has a warning about this and that the trunk is not fully searched. Afterwards, representatives from the Hunting Institute, which actually tell us everything else, telling us that this is being investigated, may come from salmon stages, including. In the United States, and that counter measures could be taken that would not damage the salmon population in Þjórð.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u217	A respectable president. I'm glad there's a compromise on this subject. Hv. This report will be discussed by a senator who is proud of him, since the project management will provide a framework for the protection and use of natural regions with emphasis on hydropower and earth's temperature. Hv. A senator describes this as a big, important step in harmony. That is why I ask him: Was it not a great disappointment when this reconciliation was interrupted by a former minister, the Svavarsdóttir's Zavís, by bringing out six primes for waiting, of which, of course, four were in water - power activation, so there were only three water sources for innovation and 14 for steam - power operations? It states that Impulse activation could have started 2015, Holt reactivation 2016, and Uryrofos, as well as 2016. [[The president calls.]] Were we not disappointed and not in a slightly better position today if a minister had applied and had not broken the agreement yet?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u218	A respectable president. No. I believe that with this first approval, we were finally leading to the approval of the Generals order some primaries and so on to the protection of others if it wasn't. That was a precaution. At the time of work, the economic situation was not to be called for. Hv. The senator will discuss the dates in this report. I know them all, they're all dates that were out of date when this document was released. We also knew that it was not. There was a great deal of caution in terms of salmon and salmon fields in Þjótur, and as I say, the time point was, so, in my opinion, it was possible. For one thing, because of us in the industrial committee, it was changed to the law that a minister may have less than every four years, it was previously ◯ every four years in the bill. [[The president calls.]] We changed this so that this could be done more according to research and the need for greater power could come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u219	A respectable president. Hv. In other words, a senator was content to move this water supply down to a waiting state. He mentioned The Bolts. I'd like to ask around about them, this natural bulb on the Smokeynes. How could that be? Senators who care so much about nature open the use of this natural bulb? It is only by means of the town government of Grindavik that the Firethrowers are protected. I have a memo from the Environment and Resource Ministry that I would have chosen to do so. A senator would have read everything but not just cut out what was right for him. Here's a pot that says: It is evident that the Council can make changes to the synoptic decrees laid before the council. [[The president calls.]] There is no doubt that after a council proposal has arrived at the council, it is the treatment of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u220	No, a respectable president, that's where it goes. A senator is mistaken. The fundamental difference between the onset of the legal process and that of the past is the difference. In my speech, I said that if the legal career is finished, I believe the general senators can make any decisions at the end of the world. I believe that the General could now take the Hagm following this proposal of the Minister, and therefore enter a protection party if more of the Generals agree to it. All the legal processes are done according to the law. This is not about the General Assembly, not until the law has been fully completed with the record written there. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It's a magical thing, a respectable president. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u221	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the 7th. That's the north side. for an excellent and informative speech. For myself, I have not formed a final opinion of what a margaritas feel about each activation, that is mainly about the form and content that we try to achieve, and that is certainly so precious. I'm wondering if there's a Water of Hag. She's in the eye, especially because I don't see that she's got anything that a respectable president called a professional assessment in his decision unless a professional opinion simply means that it was mentioned in some way. I wonder what. A senator can teach me something, since he is in a state of distress. This is a committee. This is a minority list. Is there anything that he can teach me about the reasons why Lake Hagab is on this list, since there is no evidence that this activation was ever a novelty? [[The president calls.]] As far as I can see, the only thing I've ever stood for has been to keep her waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u222	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator claims that he did not develop an opinion about each priming. It's all right, that's the way it should be, the discussion here at the Council is to discuss it. Under these teams, only one initiative, one suggestion, was to be made by the minister. But, unfortunately, as I've been over many times, more people are put in with a change proposal. Hv. A senator also discussed the form. I made a subject of my speech this form that I wanted to see after we agreed together here at the General and others on this matter. So I agree completely with him on this. Then he asks me why Hag water activation is in there. I just have to say exactly as it is, more dignified President, that I don't know why she's able to find her way into a change proposal at the greater part. For example, it makes clear that there are far more than the highest number. Environment and resource minister who says Hagwater activation is out of the question. This is because the project management needs much more data to go through, including that those who want to activate should send the data in so that the project management and professional groups can evaluate and pass them through. That's how this legal process is. And maybe the best example is the best. A senator asks about the way this is going to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u223	A respectable president. Sometimes I clean up at the Generals, trying to figure out how to handle this kind of puzzle, but like what to do. A senator is as close as I can get to Lake Hags. Then I'll ask why too. A senator who knows the matter quite better than I do: If the justification shown in the decree of a respectable president and the reasoning that, for example, may be appropriate. 5th a.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! has been brought into a pontial square, that this adjustment proposal is legitimate, and in accordance with the process, what are the benefits? What could I do? 5th a.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! or w. The head of the professional road committee proposed a change in form that would not be appropriate? Somehow, it seems to me that if it's all possible, it doesn't matter what a man thinks he can put in as a change. If so, you need to ask yourself, " What is this structure in which to begin? ' And then I wondered what kind of men would have thought of making adjustments when originally scheduled to put on a frame plan that originally was a very good idea and important, and hopefully it's not completely gone away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u224	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asks me out in the form and career. Perhaps it is normal for a young and new senator to try to get to the bottom of this complex process. The fundamental thing is what I could do in my committee party, and I went outside to speak out in words of mine, about 9 and 10. and wonder. A senator to read it with the bill as it was submitted. There the minister, he who made the suggestion, says what he thinks, and what steps he must take. Then it is fully equipped with the project management, the professionals, advertisements, an open process where everyone can send in comments and get an answer and the project management back, as was done under the leading Svanfríður-free Inga Jónasdóttir daughter at the time. Finally, there is a motion here for the Generals. As I've said many times, the Generals can't change anything until all this legal process is covered. In his memoir, the Department of Professional Reconnaissance notes that the Council could accept the proposal for Aggressive Impairment and therefore say: No, we want it to be protected or held in wait because the legal process is over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u225	A respectable president. Hv. A senator on a job committee and was able to observe the work that took place there on the part of the committee: paritaprevir This is Jón Gunnarsson's son today. That more of the committee had actually taken on the role of a project manager, the missing ones. Therefore, I would like to ask, because the laws on protection and utilisation, frame plan, are very clear when it comes to the work of the task management, whether more of the Committee would have them, as agreed in the law, appointed professional groups in appropriate areas to take action from their own perspectives - here I would specifically ask about Hag Sea - evaluated by staging them and making a suggestion for project management. I'd also like to ask if a greater proportion of the Committee that views themselves as a project management have sought information from the EEA, the State's Executive Protection Agency, Iceland's Natural Health Institute and the Travel Office on whether available data were sufficient to evaluate the factors to be taken into account in the Protection and Energy Management Programme, whether more of the Committee has taken this role as a task management, as agreed. þm. Jón Gunnar's son today, he's just serious enough to follow the letter of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u226	V.E.G. President. The answer is simply a clear no, whether it is a job committee or more of the Committee, it can never accept the work written in the law on what the project management and professional groups should do. They do exactly what they have to do. A senator could describe, describe, and call after the opinion of the archeological institution and of all the parties who are to give reviews and such. These data are also to be included from project management to Minister and Minister to Advisor so that these data are available and visible to all the public. None of this was done. When the change was sent out for review, only one more point was in line with the laws and captions of the Law, including the paradox, because when the adjustment proposal was sent out to a story, which was certainly done, the data were not submitted. People who wanted to give a review had no basis for, professional opinion and data, as well as if it had been in the legal process of project management. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u227	A respectable president. The answer is what? A senator is curious. For the same hurt, I'd like to state that the project management law says: ▪ On the basis of professional data, project management is working to establish the classification of activation options and limitation of activation and protection areas according to the classification. It shall consult the general public and the narratives of the articles in relevant institutions, governments and rural groups, partners and stakeholders. There's a deadline, etc. and then we take a stand. This is no less than four priming initiatives are completely ignored by all of this consultation process. It is the gross offense involved in this treatment of the greater part of the committee that has been involved here today, and it has been observed repeatedly to simply not understand the letter of law written here, do not leave its place in these materials, and therefore go far beyond its domain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u228	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall read from the law on dealing with the public, deadlines and all that and I can continue with what I was saying earlier, which did not make the adjustment of the majority of the committees, for example, I am quite sure that the European Union's opinion, which is very conclusive, must be based on this process. For one thing, it must be based on the lack of data to weigh along with doubtless a lot more sources. About which part of the law doesn't understand or doesn't want to understand the law, I'm going to allow myself to give a clear answer because I don't understand it. I had warned of this process, I had warned that there would be a break in peace, and there would be an increase in quarreling. I fear for litigation, and I can only imagine that those who are opposed to the fact that it has so much to explain, including, the data in the books. from the two advisers. [[The president calls.]] [Applause in the Assembly Hall.] Was I doing something wrong here at the council Hall? What was I saying?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u229	A respectable president. I'm not gonna do a speech last night. A member of the local Parliament, although there was some serious material there to be handled. On the other hand, I would like to pick up the thread from earlier discussions about meeting management at the meeting. Now it's the highest. The minister of the Environment is at the conference, and I think it's a rich thing for most people if not all of the candidates are trying to explain only the picture of the discussion and the state of the matter at the council, following the announcements of the Minister's press class of Stopr 2 tonight and pay her a way to the rosary. I request the President that the Minister may be given an opportunity to appear here on the platform and explain his statements and the situation, and if not to her, the chairman of the Council of the Agency, for it must be considered rather unusual if the Supreme Court's office. The Environment Minister has not issued his declarations on behalf of the Agency's council, which raises questions as to whether there have been any new environmental secretary or how all of this is reversed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u230	The president can inform us that according to the actual file, the highest. Environment and resource minister in a house and was in the Senate room a few months ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u231	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller gave a marvelous speech here, and at the height, it is very damaging. The Environment and Resource Minister should not have been subject to it. This is where they came to address the President's conference board after a recess following a statement at the highest level. Minister gave. I think it's absolutely necessary to the highest. A minister will clarify her position. I, like her and other members of Congress, have sworn an oath to the Constitution and the Constitution clearly states that a person should follow his convictions. It just so happens. Ministers have made it a favor to inform the nation of their convictions. This implies that it prefers only the original proposal for the present. A seafaring and agricultural minister who once served her and therefore I believe absolutely necessary to the highest level. Minister will inform her if she will go to the Constitution and vote according to her convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u232	A respectable president. I agree that it would be most intriguing to hear from the highest level. The environmental minister's opinion of this matter and the fact that we have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister on the statements she made in the evening news. It changed a bit of the situation, showing that this is not a motion from the top of the board. It's one of the many days each. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son at the council. He has had a few that discuss these suggestions and intends to have a few more, for as the situation is now at about 15 minutes past nine, and there have been a total of two talks in this matter. There is good reason to congratulate the government, but unfortunately, no one is representing him in the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u233	A respectable president. I agree with that, you know. The Environment Minister is no longer at the council chamber, not at the moment, which may well be for legitimate reasons, but I just wanted to say that 14 people are on the rosary. I'm number 3 o'clock. 6th. Smoke. This is Number 2 and What. 8th yrs Witchest. Number 1. I'm sure all three of them were out. Councilmen are ready to change to their seats at the highest level. The secretary of the environment would like to speak up here, as well as arrange for them to follow up, or whatever the way they want it to be. I wondered if a respectable president can and would like to take advantage of the fact that we have come to the highest level. The secretary of the environment for tonight's shallots so that we can keep this discussion in the good material and material tone they have been since it began. I wondered, " Is a respectable president willing to take advantage of this? ' I'm all of my will to side to my side on this roster file in either direction and whatever convenient way to get to the top. Environment Minister to... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u234	The president may know that the Council is paying the street for ministers to participate in discussions provided they wish to speak up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u235	Mr. President. This was a key point to which a respectable president came to, i.e. That's why. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers want to speak up. There has been a lack of sleep. Councilmen of the administration as well as the highest. Ministers would like to participate in debates at council. It's like the role of the Generals as a seminar has passed them, and I think it's a point that needs to be discussed under the Chief of Meeting, that we're here to discuss the ultimate proposal. The Environment and Resource Minister who chooses to express his position on change proposal, this proposal, in television news. She does not choose to come here, whether in reply or in a speech, to identify us, then. The members of their council, from the stand. There's this thing in grammar that's called perturbation, and I'm wondering if it's the highest. Ministers are generally covered with lawsuits, they are afraid to open their mouths here, and it's all about their being afraid to be torn down or what it is. It's a serious matter when the highest. Ministers prefer to explain their opinions on television newscasts and not put forth effort to come here and have a conversation with us members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u236	A respectable president. It's a question of whether the highest. Ministers are covered with lawsuits, which is why they do not represent them. But I'm more inclined to think that they're a member of the council because for some reason they don't have the church's most beloved proof of the legal convention. I think it's inevitable, as this has been attributed, to the highest. Environment Minister, come here, state his position to the council and make a statement that this discussion can continue. I also draw attention to the conclusion of a discussion about the President's conference board earlier. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said he had the authority and support in this matter from those of interest, not the national environmental minister, but the point of the administrations. I don't know anyone who's more than a member of the council than the two, especially the prime minister. So perhaps there is reason for those who have given gifts. paritaprevir The cause of this is caused by Jón Gunnarsson, who has a word for word on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u237	A respectable president. This contract becomes more awkward every minute of the week. At the beginning of a council meeting there was a proposal that includes making radical changes in the terms of the Environment and Resource Minister's resolutions on the part of the employment committee. It is to add four activation options to the sole result of the project management. Tonight's news shows that the Environment and Resource Minister himself does not support the changes made by the employment committee. Then why are we here? I don't understand why a meeting isn't over and where people are going with this case. There must be an explanation for the absence of members of this hall that there is an emergency meeting for the case where men went on some mission without getting their support on the case. We are led to fool ourselves by speaking in a public talk about a language that is certain to remain uncontaminated here - and we have only one discussion to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u238	A respectable president. First, the highest. The minister of the environment is now in the hall. I reiterate my request that he speak and participate in these discussions by making use of whatever the body of Congress offers to get to the rosary. Again, I reiterate that I am all willing to do whatever I can to come to the highest. Environment Minister to... I'm absolutely convinced that many, if not all, well. People on the rosary will be ready to do so, and I'd like to know that. A minister may respond or therefore, in order to come to his point of view. They're very busy here. This has been a good material discussion, two talks presented here that have been completely material and, in my opinion, very interesting and informative and therefore, would be a very good thing to do, as it is said in this town, if the highest. The secretary of the environment would see fit to step in a pit, through any device offered by the Parliament and participate in this conversation because this is a big matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u239	Mr. President. Yet, let us remain at ease. The members of the board who were standing alone here all day and who called for a perfunctory discussion are too welcome to participate in the discussion. The rest doesn't go to the top. The Environment and Resource Minister thundered his seat, following an incident outside the hall, following the fact that she has made it clear that she does not support the adjustment of the proposal to this council resolution. This discussion must be started at the beginning of this discussion with the highest attitude. The Environment and Resource Minister is the proposal here. The wind may not go out without its revealing it. V.E.G. A minister has sworn to the Constitution because she has declared that she will abide by her convictions. They have shown the conviction of the people and the council. The evidence is that, according to her own report in the news of Stop 2 earlier, she preferred the original proposal. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to pay for the council: What is her attitude toward the proposal presented here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u240	Mr. President. Where the highest. The secretary of the environment is now in the room, feeling the tremendous pressure from the wind. Councilmen that use it say, cheer us up with her entrance, and teach us about her opinion on this important matter. She has expressed herself in the media, and we are sitting with the highest power. A minister at the council would like to have her talk with the members of the council. I'm next on the rosary, and I'm ready to step aside for the highest level. Environment Minister. I offer her my space, and I think it's time for her to talk to us senators and express her opinion in the councilroom. I know she has strong opinions on these matters. She's a sword and shield of Icelandic nature, so now it's time for her to show what is in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u241	The president points out that all committees have not yet been recommended. Under normal circumstances, it would take priority for prominent members of the committee's list, parts and smaller parts, to keep their storylines in advance of the changes to the rosary, to the highest level. A minister might participate in discussions. V.E.G. Of course, a minister may give a reply, or he may use other measures that the body of Congress allows to express its opinion or answer questions. But this is what the President considers to be the natural development of the case, that it is first recommended for committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u242	Mr. President. The situation that we have at the council is certainly strange. We're here to discuss an adjustment proposal to a council resolution from the highest level. Environment Minister, who does not reach any direction and transversely breaks the code of the framework. It's very good to be a top dog. Environment Minister should be in the hall. Mr. President says that it is customary for committee opinions to be recommended before entering the discussion. I'm on the rosary when every committee opinion has been measured. V.E.G. Environment Minister can get my space, but I'm sure the President will let the Minister in at any time. It would be good for us to hear her opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u243	The president can bring joy to members of the council by informing them of the Supreme Court. The Environment and Resource Minister has now entered the Vocabulary file, following the completion of the second part of its history.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u244	Mr. President. I'd like to speak up about the President's conference board, such as any of the others here have been these last minutes. I'm glad to hear it. Environment Minister has arrived at the rosary, and is well thought to be. In fact, I expected her to give me a reason. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller answered, as he addressed her two very Cynish questions. I was kind of surprised to learn that. A minister would not be able to make an answer to the senator, who had a very meaningful and perfunctory speech. But it's good if the highest. A minister comes in a talk later and even answers the person coming next to the committee and presenting a second opinion. It is very important in this matter, especially in view of the extent of controversy, especially in view of the evening news at the highest level. Environment Minister, to get her opinion of the matter and to be used in the discussion and in our dealings, the prosecuting council members. I would like to see more senators, both prominent and independent, speak up in this discussion, not just the opposition to government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u245	V.E.G. President. As an executive of the 1st Work Board, where I gave my opinion to the committee and added a little to the written text, I must say just as it is, that I was also a bit frustrated and surprised that I was at the height. The minister of the environment, who was in the hall, that I felt that all the time, did not use the right to countercommunicate and speed up discussion by answering the asked questions. I'm reminded of a three - year minister career, and I remember it. It was a very critical time, that when I gave a case, I would sit over it and participate in discussions, including. to answer the questions made by members of the Parliament to help. It seems to be a complete exception to stewards today, but I respect it very much at the highest level. Minister to sit here now, and I'm glad the Minister has entered the rosary. [[The president calls.]] It is true what the President says, the Minister of Overseers can come into the rosary at any time. I eagerly await her talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u246	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear it. Environment Minister has arrived at the rosary. On the other hand, I'm going to propose to the United States Congress notably to let the members of the greater part of the great district, sharp. paritaprevir Páll Paul's son Jóhann's Þorsteinn Pálsson, Sæmundsson the son of Sæmund and the Egilsdóttir of Eglur, who made this suggestion with the independence members of the committee. It would be interesting to know whether they have simply not studied the contents of the environment and resource memo. Intrigued is the highest. Environment Minister, at least in part, agrees with his Ministry. Is it possible that they disagree directly with their minister in the seminary? It's important to know this because if they've just missed this memo and have to reconsider, we can make the change back, and then it's no big problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u247	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. The Environment and Resource Minister has entered the conference room and has increased to the tenet as it is truly needed. Hv. A senator and executive for the opinion of 2 smaller parts, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, has expressed herself that it is normal, and probably at the height. A minister will be allowed to attend the speaker's file and give a talk next. I think the highest. The president should consider that offer because the situation is very unusual, not just materially but more political. There are instruments that support the proposal being made here. It is hardly readily available for those in my history to discuss and to swerve their minor opinion with objections while the matter is in the open air, as we have seen from this point on. Environment Minister on TV news tonight. To adjust the discussion, the minister must be next on the speaker's list so that we can discern the basis for the discussion right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u248	A respectable president. V.E.G. Fortunately, I have been distracted by the challenge of putting myself on the rosary, even though I agree with it. paritaprevir Svandís'stry, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, would be the best thing to do if she ever found out. I agree with a president that under normal circumstances it would be normal for her to find out that she would not be able to attend until leading members of the committee gave her talks, but these are no ordinary circumstances. But I'd like to add it up before I reach the highest level. The minister comes to the speaker's office to make a statement. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that he had the support of the important people, and I heard it being the support of government leaders, inevitably raises very persistent questions about the state's position. Environment Minister if it is to be understood by the chairman of the employment board to the highest level. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson supports the proposal of Jón Gunnarsson and associates in the matter, not his own environmental minister. It requires that the environmental secretary recognizes her position in the government and whether she has trust in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u249	A respectable president. I'll say I'm glad we're here in the highest room. Environment Minister. What a pleasure it is to have him on the rosary! I'm also very pleased with statements from the highest level. Minister for the evening news tonight. It is a pleasure to see the height of our responsibilities. A minister will take with the laws on a frame plan. I know it's the highest. A minister who has been in politics for a long time would not make such a statement without being supportive of her as a minister. It is a joy to see that in this evil business the more part of the employment committee suggests, it is not the sole concern of the situation and the bad changes. Hence, there is good reason to express joy in this. However, I'm surprised that the representatives of the Management Board of the Parliament's Environment Committee are not involved in this discussion and are involved. It's really weird that it's just for what it's supposed to be. þm. Svandís Svavardóttir of the Environment Committee, who is here, and in fact, why. þm. Katrín Juliusdóttir. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u250	A respectable president. While we're here discussing this embarrassing case all together for this government and the government's part, how the government goes on a mission to take on a conflict over the provision of resources owned by the nation, it's gonna burn everything in the labour markets. Then, at the end, people claim that the council has nothing better to do with us because we are hardly involved in this work dispute. That is the law of the Secretary of finance and the majority of the council. But the job market calls for improved standard of living, and there we have countless tools that we can work with to improve the quality of living. We could be on that assignment now, but what does this government choose to do? She prefers to keep us in this circus until after night, instead of working on national agreements that can improve the interests of the people of the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u251	V.E.G. President. Under these teams, we've been discussing that view of the present. Environment and resource minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, who was present during late news reports where she said that she was most concerned that the original proposal for an ex-Ecordor had been taken for discussion and a vote rather than a change in proposal. It's respectable. Another minister in the government of Iceland feels the same way, former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. He wrote a letter to the project management and asked her to review all these categories. The task management did not rely on it. The minister was confident, not to violate the opinion of an assignment government, but to encourage the best of the work so that there is not one minister, but two in the current government that opposes the adjustment. I have to say just as it is that I think it's respectable from these two counsellors, but I also feel that they should participate in the discussion and make these views appear and what is behind support for their decision. It would shorten our discussion and help us to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u252	Mr. President. It's now after 9:30, and I'm sure we'll be hearing at the highest level. A minister will consider the situation to be hers. I roll it up here today, like the oar. A senator sitting on the President's chair, that there are not many days left in Congress. Why is this matter put in the mouth of nonsense? V.E.G. The president of Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson knew that this meant that the program would all upset him. April 28 was presented with a view to the final budget of 2013 that needs to be settled. From the General and Education Committee, March 17th European Commission, May 5, on May 5 of the Court, April 1 of criminal treatments and police law, as well as a lot of EEA matters, and I'm just talking about issues that are in the General Education and Education Committee, and so on, what has been resolved by a legal committee. These are all the matters that could be resolved here without the schedule being upset, and I don't understand the top. The president did not set up the matter and complete it instead of taking the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u253	A respectable president. Thank you for the highest. The secretary of the environment has established a rosary and is planning to participate in the discussion. I also agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján Möller here. He wants to finish his compliments at the highest. Minister for maintaining the correct course of action in the management of innovation options, as well as at the highest level. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has done. The question, however, is the matter of thinking. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, in his hearing at the Senate Hall, says that he has the authority of those who are important to run the case in a way that he is now doing by the highest will. Environment Minister and former environmental secretary, Sigurður Ingi. You must ask yourself, " Is it not reasonable for the executives of the administrations, those who really care, to come here and discuss this matter with us as well as for the forward party to come into the discussion and explain this precisely? ' Who are these men that matter more than the Ministers of the Synod?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u254	Mr. President. There's a lot of things to say about this big case, and I admit that I'm very interested and I'm excited to hear what's at its height. A minister has something to offer when she talks after me. But I'm going to begin by measuring the Committee's panel 2. It's a smaller part of the employment board, a committee study with a reference proposal for the resolution of a change in the synonym of a national protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 13/1141, yep. 1248. The object of the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 48/2011, among other things, to ensure that the use of regions for activation is based on long-term trends and the overall basis of interest assessments taking into account nature's protection and cultural memory, economic efficiency and profitation of different instruments. A smaller section considers it important to follow the rules of the law to ensure that a protection and energy efficiency programme is professional and transparent and that loyalty is the right of the public to establish its views as the law expects. They recommend a process that is less important than the following in order to ensure harmonization of decisions made on specific activation projects. In the European Commission's mono-committee of the Industrial Commission when the legislation on the Preservation and Management Plans for fallwaters and high - temperature regions was discussed in the 139th legislation Council that the law's aim was to promote, among other things, better and more targeted policies and agreements on which areas could be used for energy recovery and which areas should protect against such projects through sustainable development. Clearly, the presentation of a major part of the employment committee is as far from agreeing with the areas to be used and protected as possible. A major part has now proposed a change in proposal, which includes four new activation options being transferred to a novelty category, of which one who has not accepted the professional opinion of a project manager. In the news on the evening of January 22 of last January, Sigrún Magnún Magnúsdóttir, Environment and Resource Ministers, the natural procedure was that the project program on a frame management program should be discussed and that it would be important to have many benefits under the fact that it would be better to include them in a novelty party, a waiting party, or a protection party. Another smaller section suggests that the case will be referred to the Environment and Resource Minister who hides the project management of Article 8. the law on the protection and energy efficiency programme to deal with the advantages and categories of the proposal as well as with the activation initiatives that the Power Institute has sent to the Work Programme the third step of the Framework Programme, as per notice from January 20, 2015. This is precisely followed by the instructions of the Law, but they do not expect benefits to be taken out and put into special quick treatments, as was done by whale induction, which the Convention's Regression proposal assumes to be a one - sided party. A smaller section concludes that many of the managers and members of the Committee found that a change in the direction of the majority of the segment would be ignored by the process of the Framework Programme. Support was also described in subheading 2. smaller objects. Section 2 considers the work as required by the law, to ensure funding to appoint professional groups, and that the EEA is given sufficient funding to prepare the protection of reservations. Under this committee view, the contraband is writing the one that stands here, okay? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and what. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir. So many were words, and there are many other things to say about all this process and how existing government groups choose to promote all issues and issues of conflict and to choose war even when there is peace. It's a little strange to do that. I have said that those who have much more should associate with their authority with humility and humility, for no one knows when he will be in any more part of the community. Respect for less share is required, since this may soon become their lot. In view of the surveys over the past few weeks, the forward group should think a little bit about it, perhaps some other sound will come in the eraser later. I think the Independence Party should also consider that he does not have the great authority and the strong position he once had where he shared and ruled in Iceland and that many were under the heel. Today, the employment committee has chosen to go contrary to the professional process that we have agreed on with a frame plan that the activation initiatives go into. She has taken up her unique task of adding four choices as high as possible. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson set out for New Year's Eve. By then, he had requested to be a project manager to provide a kind of quick treatment at eight costs. The task management did not rely on that brief period of time to provide unless one option was made by the secretary of this order, and that was a whale activation. As noted in our committee program, it is also much more difficult to work on such advantages and to analyze them in their priorities, as shown by a project management committee. She felt that it was best to return all these benefits to a project management where there were a number of costs for recycling. It was thought that they would then have all these benefits taken until treatment. It's not like they're anything running away from us. Doesn't the project management talk about producing in 2017? Do we not have enough energy in this country until then? I heard what it was like. paritaprevir Tonight, Mr. Jón Gunnarsson's son is reporting that we're facing a situation where we have no energy in the country, no electricity. I have not quite noticed that the situation had become so bad, but surely there is a lot of pressure from these big companies, big-time energy to get more energy to take bigger and more major projects. It is very special that the government does not comment when more part of the employment committee meets the demand and high pressure of these countries and allows men with certain advantages in quick treatment, shorter baptism, to meet these requirements. Energy production is mainly in the South. As I understand it, about 80% of the energy produced in the country is produced there. But how much of that energy is left to be used at home in the province? There's something about 4%, I think. The largest part of this energy is about to drive a lot of major industry around here, which seems to be enough of this country. The country's population takes five times as much electricity as its homes do. There's a lot of talk that the industry saved us and that it's so great to have users so big and that we all benefit from electronic prices. I think there's a lot of meaning and that there's been a lot of nasty contracts here in the years before, that have been long-term, and now there's a chance of reevaluating them. [[The point is, not about the Back. ...]] [[...not perfunctory...]] A report by the General Commission called for professional work, for example, for us to develop professional work practices, to be transparent, and to follow a procedure. If this isn't completely out of the question what was stated in the Generalist Report, I don't know what it is. Of course, it's being completely out of the question, and it's amazing that we're being offered to a greater part of a business committee just less than six years after a crash. It has also been observed that the current government does not place any money in peace - telling territory. That's definitely the rest of the size. However, professional and professional activities should continue to be overcome, but nothing should be done on the other side in an effort to develop some balance in these matters. Since the last government placed money on that budget for 2013, no dollars has been placed in peace records. What Is the Cause? Doesn't it make sense that we have to be comfortable with our country's nature? 80% of the tourists coming to Iceland because of the nature of the country. And as noted by many who have criticized the violence of the employment committee in these matters, it is necessary to recognize that two major people are now competing for use, not only of energy buyers, but also of tourism, i.e. how it's new. It also counts how we data on our water flows. There is no need to engage in activation projects in areas that can bring us far more profit in other ways. I was very interested in what I heard, that young people living near Þjórjórður said that the present generation was devouring all and limiting the natural resources of the country, for example, by planning to activate the lower part of Tjords, leaving the next generation, and having tied its hands on that subject. The generation now in power could do a number of other things that work could be done and done in harmony with a sustainable environment rather than activate our natural spheres to put energy into other major sectors. Do they never get enough and have been in favor of a major industry? Haven't you had enough? Can we be asked that it is never possible to draw a line into the sand and say that it is now only good, and look to another type of work? In many cases, it has been heard that the evidence is at ease. The head of the professional road committees is no greater than that they now have to activate more in order to turn electricity into some major industry waiting here and there. But we have a lot of ruined resources in the country, both in innovations and in existing ones and in full use of existing activations. There are many other meats on the bone rather than on the teem. It is also sobering to learn how the profits of the industry are taken through various means out of the country to avoid paying taxes to the State somewhere else, that is, our role in protecting Icelandic nature. We certainly want to use nature, but in the most sustainable way, we don't want to go through all the initiatives that come into our mind and past the reconciliation that was made by a framework plan where men would agree to put together for use or protection or to wait for a professional job management. It has also been observed by institutions such as the EEA that it is not acceptable that, every four years, everything upsets, that the benefits of a protection party have no place in it. They can be removed from protection and put into something else. Is there no refuge for protection? It doesn't seem to be. Everything seems upset. It's an ugly game for the generals and the people responsible for running such nonsense that's destroying years and decades of work trying to make peace with them for the protection and use of activations and natural bulbs in Iceland. We are not alone in the world. That will change a lot in 50 years, as did we who had a meeting with Land reactivation. No one speaks for not doing anything, but we have to do it in something good. It has to be so that, in the best way, they plan these advantages, rather than allow other advantages to continue running matters by force and by hand in the committees of the council to provide certain options for prompt treatment. Impulsion was a proposal for a project management that she had to work on and out of very few advantages. The minister made that choice. Although it is a legal process, it is very controversial. Impulse activation is actually a test project and a test should determine if the substance is activated. It has been reported that the Colombian sonar has not worked, nor has there been any experience in the United States of England. We're taking a chance. Also, as I've mentioned earlier, the director of the Food Agency has said that this may be a serious risk, that much of the salmon population at Uryrofos and Holtu activation disappears if the seals fail to perform their function. When something is completely experimental, there must be fear of that great risk. Do we want to be the generation that takes that great risk? With activations in the lower part of Þrjörg, Hamps, Holta, and Uryroc following activation, the strains of wild salmon and trout are put at risk. This is one of the largest salmon stocks in the country that have adapted to life in glacier water, and its appearance reflects such adjustments. That is what says in the review of Land Protector. It also states: To prevent the collapse of fish stocks, ▪ Lander activation has failed to provide convincing evidence that counter measures are sufficient to prevent the collapse of fish stocks. Experts who have studied the matter agree that the activations have a very negative impact on the environment of the river and that landowners are compromised. At that time, the social effects of the fortresses have not been evaluated. This is something we should stop at. There is also one factor that has been identified by the project management, the social impact, that they are not included. There's something that I think we really need to come into the work of the project management, to be more concerned with social impact. I'm here to quote only what's going on in the Senate itself: ▪ As noted, the current project management was initially assigned to evaluate the activation options based on the factors causing the activation initiatives to be derived from the energy efficiency category to the waiting category. The substance due to the activation initiatives in Þjótur was primarily an influence on salmon strains, and therefore, the effects on society were not specifically examined. The Project Management Board points that when assessing the environmental impact of implementation, it is reasonable to evaluate more closely the impact of environmental and social projects than can be done with a framework of the programme. This underscores the point of the task management and shows in the case of those living in this area, and the Southland nature protection groups, to take that variable into consideration. Unfortunately, the whole community there has been in a lot of controversy over these matters, and you hear some sadly beautiful stories about them. Of course, that is not good when such large disagreements develop in small communities that even break down friendships that have long since existed. It has also been observed, for example, in the Organization's Office that there is no evidence to support the use of Hagra water activation and the use of migratory activation. There's no reason to argue. This is followed by the memo provided by the Environment and Resource Ministry, which says that priming options should not be used at the General until it has been discussed with the project management. It would have been sufficient for someone to pause and not make the journey. But it seems there's a man's bet on everything. You ask yourself, " Where does this great pressure come from first to the council? ' Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has no confidence in divulging the proposal of a project manager who merely proposed a whale reaction? And the highest. The minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir has declared that she had considered it proper that it was merely a suggestion to her predecessor of the whale reaction. What is involved? What is that pressure? You don't think it's quite good enough, and it's really bad if you think that they have the authority and the expertise to take hold of things that are the role of professional groups in the management of the project and that they've never been examined on their part, as is the case with Hagwater activation. I think the nation is becoming increasingly aware that we do not let such a break in nature. We are to give the benefit of nature. It was noted earlier that the term "flavoured neck " and" more Southnes " sites had been placed in a novelty class. Of course, that's how it is with a structured plan that none of us are happy. But all members of the council agreed to take this journey during the last term, to follow this professional process, and not to put a hand in hand and put it out themselves to activation or protection here at any time. General. So, of course, there may be some advantages that follow this professional novelty program, which many might not have wanted to see going there. But that is the case, men are not necessarily content with all things, but they must hold to the conclusion that comes from that professional process. That's just the way it is. Now, you're going to go back, back up, back up, and do some ancient work here that's not exemplary and that's not decent. I expect there to be no more than a loud protest here, not just here at a council with us who are in this government stand, but in the middle of the whole society. Why, on the other hand, do men call after this war today when we face the fact that society is on fire in a conflict of action? And what should we be doing here, generals, other than trying to help something out with the success of treaties? This card isn't even in that direction. It's just to tighten every knot more. At times, you may feel that conflict will follow this government and at times be very out of control. There are differences in conflict between humans, but such has, unfortunately, been the result. The head of the pro board, but that's all I'm going to say. I have now, though, that he's rather softened than the other, because he may have noticed that men can't walk out with their fists and get their whole way and that men have to follow the rules we've set for themselves. That's what I think. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should do and wisely withdraw the matter and apply the rules set out by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u255	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council for a very good talk and gives the support of the committee opinion she presented here and the contraparatory proposal for which she is a spokesman. I joined her in molding that proposal at a time in a job - care committee when I was sitting ahead of it. paritaprevir That's Ólafsdóttir. I'd like to ask about one of the things that have not come up with today, which is about the Hagwater activation plans. Our greatest expert on detoxification, Professor Ólafur Arnalds, has said that research on the effects of the dam of the Fara and the turning of Hag Seas into what it was back in the 1930's was missing, and the water dropped considerably. On the contrary, it has led to the argument that the dam of water and transport to their original prospects could lead to a great increase of sand in this area and an effect on the whole southwest corner, not only the Blue Forest and its surrounding forces but also our areas, which live in the capital area and south by sea. There were any arguments, so hombre. A senator knows, or some information that came before him. A professional committee that convinced the committee that our main expert on these topics did not accept or be built on sand? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u256	Mr. President. Yes, this is now one of the things I felt were quite different in the reference work on Lake Hags, since it seemed that many people had been persuaded to believe that this was the process of drainage, which meant that the water surface was stable. In the data of the Power Institute, Halog Lake is defined as a flow activation. Then it turns out that the water crisis will be in Hague Sea of about five, six meters. This means that a certain part of the year will be just a mud bar that will blow up, sand, and detoxification that the locals certainly do not want. Those who support the production of Hagwater activation assume that there is a stable water surface that prevents further erosion. Sadly, though, that is not so. It has been observed that in the wake of Waterwater activation, the surface area changes six miles [6 km], and there is nothing small. It cannot be considered as stable accelerator when the water crash is five meters [5 m] and the area changes six miles [6 km], it can never be considered a constant lagoon. So I believe that those who want to activate there used certain deceptions against the locals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u257	A respectable president. In other words, there is no comment on the work of the Committee that refutes the argument and our statements of the chief expert in these topics, Ólafur Arnaldur. They're more likely to listen to another Arnalds in these waters, the Eyþór Arnaldur, who is eager to activate there. He is the chairman of the company that is going to do it and has recently taken a different role, going over the RUS for the Independence Party. So there is more listening in the Independence category than our leading experts in spite of the problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson claimed today that what was lacking on the part of the committee was covered. What the project management didn't finish took the job committee to finish. Of course, it all makes sense that the presentation of the majority of the committee is not water.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u258	President. No. Sadly, though, the mind often carries half a course of action that involves the activation and passage of initiatives, and unfortunately, humans do not always do what is true. In this case, I feel that it is an ugly game when, in fact, the local people are being deceived. According to a review of the Organization's Organization for Water Water Reservation, which is held in the waiting category according to the current framework, the president's permission: A greater proportion of the workaholics are suggested to be shifted from a waiting category to the energy generation. No logical support is made with the motion. At the same time, as with information above, the professional assessment of a project management set up in the Framework Programme is not completed with regard to Waterwater activation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u259	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller carefully reviewed his talks both earlier and here, from the opinion given to the job committee at the end of November by the Ministry of Environment and Resources and later by the Ministry of Employment on what freedom and space the World General would have to make decisions that are not in accordance with what the Commission does. It is quite conclusive, as it states, that in view of previous coverage, the task management has not dealt materially with five specific activations, such as the law says, in view of theology and Hague water, there is still some evidence that the Commission is still on the basis of the Ministry's work. Therefore, it is their opinion that the law does not assume that the Council can change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency programmes have not been established in this respect. In view of the employment department, energy and resource agencies, similar views are expressed, i.e. that, under strict interpretation of the law, it could be claimed that the Council could make only a change in the specific value laid upon the Council arrangement. This seems to have surprised the members of the committee during the discussion. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Was there no discussion of the opinion that came from these two problems? And if so, how did the more part handle the discussion on this opinion? Were they just pushed aside without discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u260	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, that's very thought - provoking, and I can't say that the memos have been given the coverage of the job committee, unfortunately. And, of course, as we sit on a professional committee, we can blame ourselves for not intervening in there and seeing what messages came from the Ministry, which were clear and clear, especially from the Environment and Resource Ministry, that there could not be some priming option in the World General without the fact that they went to the project. Of course, there is no void in the case of the minister of that matter, responsible for the comments coming from their councils, so they should be informed of these views that must be based on legal opinion within these advisers. It is a serious matter that, when they have that kind of opinion, humans will accept it, and I will, therefore, especially to the present level. Environment Minister and former Environment Minister, not to stop the management of more part of the employment committee, not to help them realize that there is no room for total failure in the opinion of employers in these areas. It's gonna be interesting to hear what's at the top. A secretary of the environment says that this is how she will feel when she comes in a talk afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u261	A respectable president. At any rate, a smaller part of the committee has been conscious of these meetings, since this opinion clearly did not go unnoticed by the smaller parts, and it was slided into an excellent committee opinion from them. But it is absolutely clear that more of the Committee has decided to ignore the opinions of these two advisers. It's very serious in my opinion when this is done, because in the opinion of these two advisers, it's being confirmed what we've said, that this is a transfector of the Law on the Framework Plan. Under it is taken from both of these advisers. A respectable president. So I have to say that because the majority of the committee has obviously no reason to explain why - I'm just wondering why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson here shakes his head, but he has not been standing here arguing over what is wrong with those opinions and what is said in them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u262	I've read that opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u263	He's not going to go for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u264	Mr. President. Yeah, I'd love to get some. The members of a large part of the work board are raised here and explain to us what evidence they have against the arguments that come from the Council. That argument must be pretty bulletproof if you think you can stand on it. They will have put much scientific evidence into practice, as it were, met with an army if they rely on them to oppose these demands on them. [[Up front.]] Of course, this is a fundamental matter. It sounds like a reason. paritaprevir Pálsson Jóhann is eager to get into the public speaker's office to represent him, but people need to follow the rules about a conventioner, men have to respect those rules. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u265	A respectable president. The proof must be made. Just as long as it takes. A senator said that it doesn't work in the Columbia River. It was precisely stated by the Institute of Fishing, that the societals in the Colombian River were not naturally set up when the activations were built, these fortresses were most built on the years before and around the second war. However, this has caused the salmon to recover, which has been installed long after the salmon population was broken down. Listening to what is happening is interesting in itself. There's a senator over the big business, and he has reason to ask why. A senator only about her. The last investment agreement for a major industry approved by the Council, if I recall, is the contract on the back of the big business, which went through the General Assembly under the front of the left green. We are now in full progress in the Theist churches because of the energy-elevating industry rising in backwater. I'd like to take in the senator after her opinion of whether this was the last term that was approved by a total confusion. It's also interesting to review the controversy on the Underfishion. The project management in frame 2 was referred to as the first start of the Lower Þjóðið in 2015 and 2016. In addition, Minister of Environment, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, refused to accept the main community structure in this area, had been judged in the Supreme Court because of the case, which was the way these activation options went into a frame plan, the activation permits was set up for them and had been dealt with in discussions among the locals, and the views became overcoming that the activation should become a reality. [[The president calls.]] But it would be most interesting to hear a response. A senator for the big business on Back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u266	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah. A senator is concerned about the industry and is its spokesman in this room. I've said that and I'm still saying I feel like I'm really good at doing business in the country, and we're supposed to stop. There was a big plan for farms on Back, which took far more energy than the plant currently built there, twice as much. That is why I thought it was a better option than going to an plant that would subsequently double and have taken far more energy than is expected to be needed in this plant and contaminated more. I'm not paid enough for any more of the major things in Iceland, and I've never been paid for them. I believe there are so many other things we can do as a nation than build more industrialized plants. I don't think there's much demand in Iceland for young people to work in industry, that there's a future dream job. I respect all the work being done in a major industry today, but we also need to look for a greater variety of structure than have been among the groups that have been in control for a long time, for two decades, where there is a big business and people run on big business as if nothing else could exist in this country. Regarding the Colombian river, they did not work too well, and they cannot be replaced in Iceland as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u267	A respectable president. It's only right to review, because this has been a reference to us projecting a bomb into the community strike, that the report of ASI since 2012 strongly encourages the activation of the Lower Sea, Crimea, and Sharkism I and II to be put into a novelty party that, among other things, will promote jobs in the country. I'm afraid there's no need to worry about this. Yes, it is better than an aluminium. Yes, the size of herbal factories is certainly slightly lower than the extent of the pollution of tons by eight times higher than in aluminium production. There is a better option, considering the environmental environment in left green relative to this. But ice - metal factories are such as the grand industry that is emphasised on building up today. There are two rising in Helguvík. Is then what? A senator opposes the growth of energy - efficient industry because it is not north of the country or west of the sea? It's to build a large factory at the GRCs, a solar plant, which will not be contaminated by any means, according to the results of the Agency, the EEA, and others. [[The president calls.]] Could the senator be satisfied with the 100 billion investments that produce 400 jobs and an export value of some 50 billion a year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u268	Mr. President. It's fine if you don't miss it. Gunnarsson This is his private and personal input into collective agreements, to bypass all professional and legal procedures, and to take this activation option in haste. [[Up front.]] I don't think that's what an employee in the country was asking for. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. [[Foreground on the ASI review.]] I don't think it was, and it doesn't say that it wants to go against professional processes, it doesn't show up. While humans may express a desire to be activated in some priming options, they also want to work on professional means, but there seems to be something to be done. A senator just can't understand. He wants to take all his power into his arms, but I don't think so. [[Up front.]] I want us to consider what kind of action we're in when it comes to the natural nature of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u269	A respectable president. It must be surprising to all those who are observing this discussion why, on the basis of many members of the general council, are wasting their time in this amazing business of employment, when people should be working at the council and improving the votes of their homes in the country, the interests of their homes in the country, the people who call for reforms after years of hard work. There is reason to stress that it is not our intention to stand up in this nonsense. On the other hand, we are compelled because the greater part has used us to vote against putting this issue on the program. But because of what happened last night. A speaker, to a professional employment board, has largely been asked to review the legal opinion of the Environment Ministry, then I encourage the President to redirect the case on a work programme before further discussion is taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u270	A respectable president. Sometimes that happens when I, as a mother of four, ask the children to clean up her room that I get bored with myself because I've said the same thing too often. I feel a little bit like this right now that I'm always saying the same thing. And what I'm saying right now is that it's no wonder that this government is losing faith and follows, that the Independence Party is down to 20%, and the forward party is down to one letter when the standard is as it is and reflected in the program of the council today. This is such a lack of understanding of society's situation that it is merely strange. That we are now discussing this matter is more natural than tears are taken. I would like to ask a respectable president to consider that the end of this day will be here when four, five talks, or so that we will take this ugly matter off the program, and people will consider how this can be adjusted and organized into some upbuilding channel and will start discussing matters that are relevant. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u271	A respectable president. Well, I'm glad we're next to the superintendent. Environment Minister, who is going to explain his side of this matter and perhaps discuss the proclamations as high as possible. Minister gave the news for the evening news. I don't think it's a big challenge to get to the top. A minister gives his speech when the clock is 25 minutes short for 11 in the evening. Why not postpone a meeting and start this discussion tomorrow, and why not discuss these matters in daylight? My experience with this day is that a whole day has been spent in total nonsense, a whole day is wasted in total nonsense when there are not many days left in this winter council. Nothing's come out of this, and nothing's gonna come out of this. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson. [[The president calls.]] No sense has come out of this day. This is merely a disgrace to the council and to these administrative parts, to have decided to establish this matter here when there are reasons for taking many more important matters on the program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u272	A respectable president. Given today's troublemaker, if we open the meeting tomorrow, we'd be better off getting a statement from the Supreme Court. Minister, she'd get to talk in the daytime, but not when the midnight season begins. However, it is still another time for this body of Congress and the Senate administration that this meeting will be held in the scheduled manner. Today we could have spent some time discussing how we are going to improve the standard of living for the people who are here for tens of thousands of years in strikes, people who are calling for their standard of living and survival to be improved. We could do this by discussing the tax system changes that can be done for those groups, discussing housing here, discussing here, for example, the downturns of student loans and other cases that benefit those groups, which now call attention to our attention by strikes. How is that answered? What is left of us this day is the reply of the Senate to the pleas of these people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u273	A respectable president. Yeah, I totally agree. Congress members that this day has been spent in total nonsense. Communion is usually a complete nonsense, and that is the only clear name for what is going on here, that's a code of speech on the part of the minority part. Secular democracy is given here to be the name of the violence of the greater part, called because of its origin. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. The word "violence " is called" violence of the greater part, " when most of the segment finds out in his democratic decision to discuss this matter. [[Up front.]] People have been concerned here that we are reducing the welfare of society by the way this is happening, but it is natural to all to see that there is nothing better than a powerful career and a real treasure creation and that is exactly what we're talking about here. [[Up front.]] That is what has improved the standard of living in this country, and it is only necessary to quote to the labor chief Vilhjálmur Birgisson, the Worker's Labor Association, who has often talked about how great the big business of Grundartan has improved the standard of living in that region. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But as for the minister, a respectable president, I'm sure you can negotiate with the Supreme Court. Minister to allow others to go in front of us for the rest of the night and come in here tomorrow and discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sure she's ready for that. She's a big deal, Sigrún.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u274	The president would like to ask members of the council to respect the session. The president is very upset about hitting the bell very quickly and yelling at them because they've been complaining about it from those who listen to them at home, saying that the sound of a bell is not good for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u275	Mr. President. I agree with the sound of the bell, you see, it sounds a lot higher when you're at home listening than it is behind us. But because this has only been the subject of what matters and why we have this matter on the program now, but not other people who are more important in the community at this point, members of the Independence Party have specifically talked about us not to change or work in terms of affairs here at the council. I disagree completely because it is based on our community structure what kind of access we have to the health system, what sort of access we have to the educational system, etc. That is something that we have discussed very much and repeatedly, critical of the preparation of funds and many times before. For example, the length of work time affects how long we spend with our family, etc. All of this matters, not just us in here, but the way we live the environment in which the people of the country work. [[The president calls.]] We could be discussing such matters that would be fine now in the struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u276	Mr. President. The majority of it was overpowered, the senator said here earlier. Why don't we just call things the right names? Overcrowded. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son would be much closer to calling it. Is it not that way? A senator has not signed one of the highest. Environment and Resource Minister holding two? True, it has taken him only a year. But let's just call things the right names. That's what's happening here. Then yοu're yοu knοw. The governor's senator. Environment and resource secretary by saying that it is a negotiation group. This, of course, is because he has powerfully and has made the right choice in the matter. It's just the fact. I don't think anybody's feeling any pity, and least of all is the best. Minister to give the speech now. I've been waiting to listen to the highest. Minister. I think she needs to, as she said: "Pretty today, to represent her own case, and I'm sure she can, but we need to know if she's going to respect the constitution and follow the convictions she had on TV tonight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u277	A respectable president. I didn't mean to say anything to this team, about the President's conference board, until then. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. came up in a pita, spoke up, and began to talk about the language. As usually happens, the discussion is delayed because of the circumstances. A senator usually says something that is worth talking about. Now that we have repeated this discussion about the President's conference board today, what regularly happens here at the council, i.e. that we are put in position to sacrifice either one or another the big issue of conversation. This has been repeated from the beginning of this case and from the very first point of view that there is the largest struggle in the country that has been seen for decades. [[Up front.]] There is something that this council should be focusing on, not only in this particular battle but also on how to deal with such problems in general. But instead of focusing on it, we're stuck here talking about another matter, one of the major issues in the modern political history of Iceland. It's not the government's fault. That's not a saying. [[The president calls.]] It's just the position that the smaller part is put over and over again. [[The president calls.]] And that's why we complain about it over and over again, normally.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u278	Mr. President. It has been said that this day was spent in vain. But I'd like to ask a president if it was surprising to the president that the suggestions presented here were not taken lightly. No, I don't think it can be at the top. The president has gone to such lengths that he thought it would be out of the question, and there wouldn't be much joy in these changes from a greater part of the employment committee. However, this is clearly the highest priority. Governments. Keeping the council busy is the focus of the government's work to talk about the adjustment proposals to the Council's resolutions. Environment Minister, who, in fact, I look forward to hearing later. But this is a priority, and they knew exactly what they were doing when they set it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u279	Mr. President. I've been thinking about it in the light of what happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son here today is asking if we should not just assign him to the conference board. Hv. A senator has been getting a little involved in how to arrange a meeting here, like anything else he wants to hire. Is it not best, then, that he accepts all of this and also sits on the President's chair? He can then talk from there and give his talks and answer from there, and then it's just a matter of time. Clearly, a senator feels the most natural thing to do. [[The point is, I guess that would be homey.]] [[He said, "He would..."]] True, in many respects this day has been a fine one, especially in one respect. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has completely exposed himself in a lawsuit here today as the archenemy of the old industrial policy, and he really doesn't need any other evidence. Just activate and activate in the interests of the great coats, and that's it. He spent two - thirds of his entropy speech with the condemned members of the committee and the changes made to a greater part of the employment committee in the spirit of the old industrial policy, as though he had no evidence of the other. This is beneficial, for it will reveal who are followers of why. paritaprevir and Jón Gunnar's leiðtogi in a 40 - year - old surrogacy policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u280	A respectable president. I can't say "fuck" over a talk. paritaprevir This is Jón Gunnarsson's son. I'd like to give him the advice, because he doesn't seem to be wearing the pants to start making some peace in this case, maybe to just show up here in your extended pants and collect some handsome bars, so the pack fits with the talks he's making, all from 1972.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u281	V.E.G. President. It is, in particular, that the government today can fly if it is speaking ill of the actions of the former government. In this government, I am in the same land as others do. People here, feeling that it's hard to believe that they're being offered a work plan like this at the council. We're not talking about anything small. We're talking about the guidelines for how we handle the nature of Iceland and how to use energy resources. We're talking the highlands. For example, the union that a political party has concluded about its peace or its national park. National Protection concluded this at their meeting on the last weekend. But, hey. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his followers want to market the poverty that all of us have and should enjoy for centuries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u282	A respectable president. As we have seen during the discussion, there were some news in television news tonight at the height. The minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, who is next on the rosary, declared that she would like to see the council agree to a future minister's proposal from the fall. That is also true of the highest. Secretary of the marine road and agricultural policy, Sigurður Jóhannsson, who recommended this proposal in his day and has declared that position. Here at the council Hall is here. paritaprevir Einarsson, who is a representative of the Environment and Transport Committee and is just the senator of the same advance group. I think there's every reason to encourage some people. A senator to recognize his stand for the proposal presented here, both the Ministers' proposals that are with him and then the proposed changes that a large part of the government party is fighting for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u283	A respectable president. I think it's a bit of a approach. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son in regard to this matter is quite remarkable. They try to argue that they are working with the minister's proposal. We are led here to believe that all of this is being done in a very professional way, but then we have an opinion that it is actually claimed by two counts that the law was disbarred and that the matter was hardly being discussed on the committee because men were planning to pin these suggestions against one or another. This is done in a way that allows us to have one discussion on the subject here. It's not work I like. Here we go. A senator up here, speaking as if he could tell how to conduct an assembly and claim it to the highest level. A minister had nothing to do with this, that she should be wanting in the day when it comes to putting up this matter, and thus should speak down to that fine woman from the place where there is a place to speak. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't like it. I think we have to stop this meeting and somehow try to get a hold of it and start a meeting here with a picture book again tomorrow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u284	A respectable president. The most recent example of a filamentist I recall in the history of the council was at the same time. A senator who spoke from the same talk again from this part of the platform so that members of the council were too persecuted, so they decided to extract the script from the discourse and also repeat the pleas to make the absurdity perfect. The dog. A senator who used to say that a filibuster was named Jón Gunnarsson. There's a reason to say what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson that no committee party has yet been recommended. Nor has the environmental committee reviews been made, and there are many, many days, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, until there is a time to start speaking on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u285	Mr. President. It's interesting to me that there's talk about filibusters on the first day, which I've actually found to be quite helpful. I've found it helpful to realize that there was something wrong with it. Councilmen, representatives of the greater part, do not seem to have studied the evidence we are referring to when we question the existence of these refinements, they do not seem to recognize the evidence under discussion of the Committee. I think it's interesting to hear that. The representatives of the greater part claim that in the case of a team of professionals, Hagium activation was adopted by the Project Management Board. I think it's very interesting to hear how a job works. The members of the General Work Board have been appointed as members of the Parliament. I think this discussion today has exposed it very well, and it is very helpful to follow through because it is quite clear that we are. Councilmen involved in this discussion have a lot of work to do, to review these suggestions carefully, and to discuss the facts accurately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u286	A respectable president. I don't think there's any limit to being abducted. I can agree with a lot of people. People who have come up here talking about a lot of bullshit today. I completely agree with that. I can say with what. Congress officials who have become bored with themselves. They have come up and keep saying the same words over and over all day long. I challenge the world of Congress - men speak of the violence of the greater part, the violence of much or the violence of my lot. What is the extent to which violence is less than what was called at its height? The secretary of the environment would be here for the discussion, but isn't he allowed? It's just, you know, just keep talking, and it's stalling. Hv. Congress officials are afraid to participate in material discussions. There is also a complaint that the senators do not come to the rosary - you just let them, let the case roll.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u287	A respectable president. I think it's necessary to have a small part of this filial with the smaller parts of it to add some kind of input. The director of the left green said that today's discussion had been beneficial. It may well be helpful to discuss in almost every speech about the violence of Jón the son of Gunnarsson and his bullying, that it is a meaningful presentation. I think the advising is most a sound of opportunism and a more pronounced description of those who speak that way. I said it at the beginning of my speech earlier today that ridicule and other insults to me would not be serious about these people, not with this trial. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke of the old mesmerizing policy. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall said I should put on stretched pants and collect bars. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] What has changed since the last term when we took care of our last major industry in Iceland under the forusta of Steingrímur J. Sigfusson? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I was not asked to collect bars and put on stretched pants. What's changed for him? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon since then? Then it was just a welcome consideration for my presentation of the case and supported the case despite the fact that it was a major industrial project that was antiquated by no precedents in Icelandic industry, a project that was left in greens, that was more appealing to tax laws and infrastructure and such than any other big business had previously received. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u288	V.E.G. President. I would like to encourage those who exercise majority power far beyond the election's votes to show them respect when we use our rights as members of my body here to express our zeal for the work. Then I wanted to take this opportunity because we've complained about this discussion, and I mention that it's not just breaking the rules here, but it's a betrayal of its own covenant. In the Treaty of this right government, you will see the section Environment, by permission of a president: The 'Environment and energy use programme' will be reviewed based on the results of the experts'professional groups assigned by project management. It will be interesting to hear the members of the greater part tell us how they feel that this is in accordance with their government covenant, so we do not go into the legal guidelines. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u289	A respectable president. I just can't say a word about this talk. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. About filibusters. Since the beginning of this discussion today, it has been interrupted from beginning to end, until relatively recent times, when the conference regime has ceased to be an independent problem in all of this discussion. Also, I'd like to point the tail. A member of the council says that there have been a very small number of discourses, all of which have been different in a material way. There have been legends, committee views, and then other committee views with conflicting views. For this is the way that should not come. A senator's surprise, or anyone else, is that this is a big matter. It takes time to discuss it, natural, and when the meeting board is the way it has been today, it's no wonder we talk about it. When news was received tonight by the highest attitude. It's no wonder we're talking about it. It takes time, as it was originally. That's not a saying. It's called the General only.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u290	Mr. President. It's a little strange when it comes to what's happened. Councilmen speak of nonsense from the platform and classify it as nonsense what has been said here today and tonight on this subject. If you're going to weigh who's talking and who doesn't bullshit, I'm afraid that what the government has said here today would be considered smart, but the nonsense came from somewhere else, maybe from the inside. The job committee and most of it in the form of this amazing Parliamentary arrangement. I believe that in the three talks that have been given here today I say this, though I may be involved and should not be a judge of it. But there's also been a busy meeting board here, and there's been nothing to be done about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u291	A respectable president. I came down here after some excitement, so I now use a word that has fallen here, to listen. I learned that I had been expected here, and people would like me to get there as soon as possible. I've been sitting here being graceful for almost three hours. Now, the excitement was no more to hear my words, and I'll try to shorten my very case and realize completely that I'm not giving any Gettysburg speech here. I want to say something. paritaprevir Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's, I think it's a little strange when men spend their time in a meeting with President. Although there have been three excellent material talks here repeatedly, people have come up here all day, doing a few things just because of the President's conference board. That's not what I like about it. Another thing I'd like to say at the outset is that I feel that the power of television news is very great. I've been aware of it here because three times I've been in this chair since I took over the office I now have and said exactly what I said to both stations. In fact, it is somewhat cut, so it may not have returned in the same way. But three times I've been standing here in unsubstantiated inquiries, last to answer the question. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter just a week ago or ten days ago, but they obviously don't listen to what's said here. A general or not present. I've also been on TV, in Castlight, and interviews, and I'm sure I've been on the news, and I've said exactly the same thing as here. If they don't believe, they can look it up. Meeting talks are documented, and I think we can also get material on TV. I was called to Castlight a week or ten days after my office. I was already asked about this case, that it was under consideration, and that there had been some ideas about a number of activation options. Then I said that I could get at it or feel that it was normal that we would present all three activation options in Þjótur because the project management program in Part 2 had investigated and presented them exactly these advantages. That's what I already said in January, and I've repeated it before here at the General. I haven't changed my mind. So I think there must be some in the room who remember that in December I attended a meeting of the employment committee and could handle this opinion there, and then I didn't accept the office of Environment and Resource Minister, so I haven't changed my mind even if I put on another coat. I would also like to state that when I read the committee's opinion from a large part of the job committee, I'm looking into all this number of visitors. I have never seen so many visitors before a committee as in this case that I am no more than that both more and less things have been able to do a lot of research. In effect, I admire the number of these visitors at the time the committee gave them to cover the work that was available to her. In fact, the members of Congress spoke about the same talk often as I'm thinking about doing it now, because I've printed some of my last talks on this subject, delivering it word rights so that you can hear that I haven't changed my mind. So let me start by saying that at the beginning of this year, there is a new process on the box and that I look very closely to that work, and I want to do it exactly as the law and the regulations indicate. I've been accepting that assignment, and I've taken pride in it, and I've talked to the chairman of a project manager. We'll meet together regularly, and then I'll tell you what's going on. We'll even have a meeting tomorrow and we'll go over it and see what's going on. I would like to say: I don't want to look back too much, and I know that now a professional committee is working on this controversial matter. I'm not gonna give myself anything on what's going on at committee meetings and I'd like to wait for it to come here in the Senate Hall. I have previously made that statement from this public address, and I can repeat that I had found it acceptable if a professional committee had placed the three advantages in the Þjótur because they have all been fully researched. Men who are now working on the project have said that they could have made all three of their advantages lacking in hair. That's what I've put out of this chair and I can say it right here, so that's where I was repeating it for the second or third time. And I really hope that we can now change our work habits and look ahead for a year and then look at the benefits on both sides and then respect the decisions made. It is my request that we work on the frame, stage 3 of the second part, and I hope it will produce results on the autumn days of 2016, after about a year and a half. Granted, there are many conflicting interests and viewpoints, but prognosticators from different fields and weigh these conflicting views together. Today, it has natural to say that there is no small task in dealing with this issue and that there are no conflicting issues. In the case of Hagwater activation, I feel that there would have to be a special psychiatric arrangement for her if a matter had been settled here. But at the same time, I want to know that I have been treated by groups who have fought very hard for thewater - very, very much of the environment. But since then, there have been groups and people with completely conflicting views. I've hardly heard of anything much more extreme in a group of people who feel that they are looking for nature. I know about the different people's viewpoints that may not have the same perspective on things, you know in advance, but when a group of people in the field of nature come to you, you think a little bit of about it. But the activation has not yet received the research that I would have chosen for it, since men have not yet come to a common conclusion. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller was sorry that I didn't answer back, but I was kind of waiting for me to find out and take this number. That's why I waited. It wasn't because I felt that what he directed to me or what he discussed in his excellent talk was not worth answering, as it were. Hv. One senator asked me if I would use myself for the protection, for peace, that it would be more emphasised. He also said that energy efficiency and protection should have the same value that I take into consideration. I don't think the protection should have anything to do with it. Of course, these matters have to be handled, and I've also said here that I'm sorry I haven't done well in general. There are a lot of peace statements in the EEA, and that's why I've allowed myself to say it out of this platform, so I'm now trying to agree very much with myself, that there may be too many peace statements and it would be better if we were going to concentrate on special protection programs like those who have been referred to for protection at the project. But I can assure you what. A member of Parliament and other members of Parliament are involved, and the Ministry is mentally and equally concerned with the EEA to do this work and, of course, to be done more quickly and more, and to be tried to obtain it. I don't know how long I'm supposed to go on. I told him that I would try to shorten my speech because the Humor has only disappeared in those hours compared with what it was like at the outset. But I would like to reiterate that at the beginning of the year, a new process began with regard to the work of a project project project that is better accomplished than it is possible to do so so far because we can get the professionals and everything else started. Now, for the first time, we work according to these layers and do it as well as possible. I hope the council is excited like me, so I'll use that word again, for it's going well, and I'd like to feel it returned to its work after a year and a half. Another thing about energy, I'd like to report that at this morning's government meeting a Senate report that had been brought here on the tide and wave energy and other sources of energy and how we could use the energy in our sea. I really liked what was presented there. It's still very expensive. I feel that we should start more intensive research. I am convinced that this must be the future. We have less intervention in nature, and we have plenty of this energy. I mention, for example, that we took a long time to take over the wind's energy and didn't believe in it, we thought it was an animal, and certainly it's an animal like anything else that has to do with energy. But it has yielded so much greater benefit than men thought was possible at the beginning, but of course it is no absolute dream. For example, I feel that these stores are contaminated with environmental pollution. In fact, they have become much lower than they once were, but I mention the wind power, for example, because it was discussed in this country for a long time that it would not benefit us and would be too expensive. So I am convinced that sea power will be the future. Then we won't have to land much or make irreversible intervention in the natural world. I'm going to be allowed to go crazy, because it's late at midnight: Where in the country is remembered about volcanoes and where are earthquakes not as frequent as elsewhere? That's where I feel we should activate the sea power. And even when I was playing some night, I thought I might be able to dig through the oath to the Gulf, which is about ten miles [10 km] away, and I could activate the energy there in both directions, so I'd look at the West Coast.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u292	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you to the highest. Minister for her introduction to this discussion. Now we can speak with members of Parliament and ask the minister in reply. What I'd like to ask out in my previous answer concerns what was published in the press tonight, especially at Station 2, where the top. Minister said she wanted to remain the unchanged proposal of her predecessor in the profession, i.e. about Impulse reactivation. In the opinion that the Environment and Resource Ministry wrote to the Commission on the basis of our request from the Committee, which I have said is a legal explanation, although it is written in the history of the former Environment Minister, the Ministry says that changes to the category of these costs, where the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in their case. The ministry is very reported and, as I say, is a very important introduction to this discussion and legal solution. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Support to the highest. Minister's proposal made more of a part of the employment committee about four new priming options to a innovation party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u293	A respectable president. I thought I had spoken here quite clearly in my speech earlier. I support the benefits of the lower part of Thunder and will vote for them. I'd like to further investigate Hagagle activation, be prepared to assume that a concierge proposal for her to go on a special study course, has not yet made a final decision with the Tank. It doesn't seem like she's got a lot of intervention, but it would've wanted her to have stayed in the Ministry or Project Administration. Well, I'll definitely support these three groups, and I'll be able to keep my mind on The Devil. But I feel like, I want it to also come up here that I feel that the Council has the right and the commission to make changes in this council-sense proposal as well as in other people who are put out of it and I don't believe that any authority should beat the legislature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u294	V.E.G. President. Now it is in the press that talks on this matter to the highest degree. Ministers do not support proposals for Hagwater activation and rock wave activation. We're good to go. It does, however, support the three suggestions in the Thavenaut. Now it's out. I call attention to the fact that this is the minister of the seminary. I also want to ask the highest. Minister to the work done by her predecessor by writing a letter on the project management to consider certain eight activation options. The former minister concluded on the basis of the proposal and data from the task management program to offer only Hamps reactivation. The former minister did not rely on the project management and therefore offered just one option. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Was this a wrong assessment of a former minister? Or is it perhaps in agreement with a former minister to accept just one option that confirms what we have said, and her ministry says, that legal matters have not been performed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u295	A respectable president. I agree with my predecessor 100% and probably would have handled one last fall. I mentioned it here, however, that people had hairs from their goal of putting out these three fortresses in Þjótur, they were not observed in the fall but had been made during the last term. Yes, I perfectly answer that I would have suggested exactly the same kind of suggestion as my predecessor, to rely on it. A groundwork programme manager is a minister and minister counselor who must, in turn, make his own decision at all times. This is counseling. This is not a government. I sometimes think there's a misunderstanding that a project management is the one who has the highest authority. This is counseling for the minister, and then he makes his decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u296	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for her introduction to this discussion. She explained many things. I agree with the highest. A minister in that respect that in itself there is no new or new news in what a minister is saying, either here on the platform or on the news tonight or before the council. What is newsworthy is the extent to which inconsistencies of proposals are made to a greater part of the employment committee are involved in the Supreme Court's opinions and language. Minister of these matters. That, of course, is what humans have been discussing today, and that is why participation and presence are the highest. Minister so important here. Of course, if there is no more of the suggestions under consideration, this is nothing more than a smoke bomb that has been thrown into the council to mislead humans. Then, of course, it's a total waste of time and that's why you'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has there been no consultation between the government parties, between the Ministry and the Employment Committee on the claim of this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u297	A respectable president. I'm sure there's a talk, and I'm convinced that in terms of the proposal made by the employment committee, there's a lot more in the board, but I haven't been in this position, and it's also been in the past. We may have a different democratic technique than what we do. A senator is used to. The government is not directing this. I was asked here if I was not in charge of the committee. I won't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u298	A respectable president. So it's the highest. A minister to report here that there is more to the proposal of a greater part of the employment committee, that the person conducting a case of the environment in Iceland, which has certain views of him who is not in accordance with the opinions of a greater part of the employment committee, has no relevance within his body and within the administrative part of these matters? If so, I find it quite news. Of course, there is a big difference between the way these issues are held, whether or not to move objects from a waiting party or to a waiting class. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would feel that the procedure under consideration is comparable to moving ideas from a waiting category to the last term, whether it is comparable to putting a waiting category into a novelty class. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u299	A respectable president. Of course, it is out of control that once such a committee has been established that we trust in the intricate process there that everyone accepts that conclusion. I repeat, it is still a counselor, and then it is a minister to make the decision and the council. I don't know what I'm saying. The senator must appreciate how he feels that trust in the Minister is within the council, I'm very careful. My opinion has been expressed in my council and only in terms of saying it. We get to have our opinions. It has been said that each senator should have a personal opinion and follow his convictions, and I had that conviction before accepting this office, and I did not change style.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u300	A respectable president. Thank you, Minister, but we're not talking about any taste issues, we're talking about the Minister saying that two suggestions from the greater part of the employment committee are not meeting laws on the environment. V.E.G. Ministers are responsible for applying environmental laws. This is also in harmony with the memo laid out by the Ministry during her prehuman existence. I must ask the minister if she will not comply with her party and the political party, on behalf of whom she will take the seminary, will not go along with the council, the chairman of the Party, and other members of the Party are under law in this regard, and will not violate a law on the framework that it is responsible for men to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u301	A respectable president. I can't answer the opinions of others. I stand here and answer for my convictions and my opinion in this matter. I said earlier tonight that I didn't think it was unusual for the committee to go over the matter and act on it. I knew of it, heard what was going on within the committee, and I was not forcing the work there. I'll tell you again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u302	A respectable president. V.E.G. The Environment Minister has restated that she had made the same suggestion as her predecessor in the work for just one option, for whale activation, because only the legal requirements for the one suggestion were met. This means that most of the employment committees go against the laws and legal divorces that the minister is responsible for being honorable. I must ask the minister if he can enjoy that Prime Minister is not confident of his own environmental Minister in this regard, that the head of the House of forwarders is going against the law and the opinion of the Ministry and the rest of the House members. [[The president calls.]] It won't be the highest. A minister to consider his position if he insists on doing so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u303	A respectable president. Project Management of a Framework Programme is a consulting committee. Now I'd like the Senator to listen. It's the government, it's the Environment Minister who sets up task management on the box and has specific activation options to cover and I've told you before that it is a kind of force for what is to be sent to protect and send to use. This committee is not a government, it is a consulting committee for a minister. I was asked questions here about whether I had made the same decision that my predecessor had ever made. In the fall, and I said I thought it was likely that I had. I would have applied the advice of the Committee. Advice, that's not a law, that's a advice the committee brings to the minister. [[The president calls.]] I can't tell you exactly what a man would have done back in time, but I think I would have done it, to keep peace. That's the kind of person I am. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I say that although the committee made the decision to send more advantages, such as the benefits of the campaign, it does not seem unusual to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u304	Mr. President. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to better explain his position. The task management programme is now planned to provide a comprehensive assessment of activation options and to make suggestions for protection, waiting, or utilisation. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that she had followed the example of her officers at the Environment Ministry and offered a proposal for one initiative, as that was a proposal for a project management. That's what's at the highest. Minister just told us. In the next verse, she also said that she would support other suggestions on priming in the Þjórrei, which the same project management does not recommend. V.E.G. One minister says: "Well, we never get results. We don't have to be completely clear about that when we're at the highest level. A minister is a government official, then not important. Ministers follow the rules given by the lawgiver? [[The president calls.]] This is not just the suggestions. Also, a minister does what he can do. A minister behaves fully here at the council. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to see this: what makes the biggest difference. Minister of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u305	A respectable president. I'm trying to repeat this here that I probably would have done the same thing as my predecessor in the fall, to take into account what the project management suggested because she had not quite finished the work she had been given but was, as it were said, from sending all three benefits forward. I found this acceptable because the previous project management of a frame plan that worked during the last terms had continued to be used. So, then, does not the task management have the same value? That is why I felt that the project manager who took over in not one year could have made sure that he would stick to the same benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u306	Mr. President. The law is very clear in this regard. V.E.G. Ministers believe that she can then have her view that a project management should work faster and that it does not need more than a year to assess the environmental impacts, social impacts and economic benefits of these costs. In the case of these costs, the main assessment of specific effects on the salmon population has been made with very convincing evidence that it takes time to examine this strain. I think the law is completely clear in these matters, and I think it's very important to the highest level. Ministers have come up here and explained their position because I really think she's making this matter quite upset how we look at the laws on the framework and how we're going to live by them. That's where I think it's the highest. Ministers have come up with certain contradictions to their own Ministry. Those who have discussed today that this is just a bunch of nonsense in this discussion and stretching out the paws I think this further shows how much we need to discuss these matters quite well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u307	A respectable president. I don't like it if it rains. A senator takes into his mouth the minister's bullshit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u308	I wasn't saying...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u309	[["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ...]] Okay. I understand, that I think, quite exactly the law on a frame plan. I understand a law on a framework in which the task management board is saying and researching these advantages and then giving a report to the minister who then makes his decision. The minister, my predecessor in charge, did so by the resolution here in the fall. Then the case goes to the committee and that committee, the professional board, and all the other committees here at the council will frequently change the terms and bills that come to them. [[The president calls.]] Everyone in this room knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u310	A respectable president. This whole thing seems completely out in the middle of nowhere. So now it is informed that both the Environment Ministry of the United States and the Supreme Ministry. The government's Environment Minister, who lives in the United States, considers at least two of the five advantages listed here, Hagag water activation, and Sóggga, to have not received the legal study. I ask the Commission to have at least the matter so that his own confidants and the government's department themselves believe that the matter will be a valid law and take off the Board of Archipelago and Hag water activation and will try to carry on with it all the way that the government's Environment Minister of the State itself can assume that this is in accordance with law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u311	A respectable president. Different things are clearer, but other things are much less clear. What exactly is the state of the environment of the Iceland Management Board when the Minister himself discuss the matter of the laxness she does here, speaking as if she is a spokesman for the seminary rather than the burden and political leader she must be to her own body and to the community in general? Is it really so that the head of Congress is not backing up environmental ministers? Is that so? I'm completely speechless about the position we have here. How in the world are we to continue our discussion on this point when the highest level is here? A minister may not consider it a matter of time before the group of paintings is better than it does not matter whether he has normal support and respect? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u312	A respectable president. What was revealed in the exchange we had here at the highest. The minister of the environment is saying that the minister's opinions are very similar to those she has had in this category and that in this case all are presented. It is not a spokesman for the Environment Agency, i.e. She does not speak for her council or for her party. It is presented as if the political issue is out of her control, she is just doing a certain task, and she has her opinions about what is done at the council, but that of speaking and conversation, as is customary between a member of the board, is not on the top of a task circle. Minister. She seems to think of it as an abnormal intervention. [[The president calls.]] What we're trying to reach out for is the political position of this case. [[The president calls.]] Is this government business, or is this a greater part of the industry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u313	A respectable president. I did not find speech or answers to the highest degree. On the contrary, a minister will explain something. After this discussion, you are no closer to the situation. We're going to miss the highest. Ministers in her opinion that the project management has become some sort of consulting committee in town. I know the highest. A minister does not say that an entire law code applies to her work, and in what way should she do so? I know the highest. The Ministry it now does not give the opinion of how to submit the results of the task management, and how to bring them in here. That opinion is totally confused that there is some extracurricular advice. It is simply stated in the opinion and opinion of the Environment Ministry that the Act on Framework does not assume that the Council could make changes in the category of these costs, since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect, the cost of their sort which it proposes to be balanced between groups in the council. [[The president calls.]] This group is in vain in the hands of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u314	Mr. President. It now tilts a very day. It has been quite an eventful day. I think it's clear to all of us that we've all been here today that more part of the employment committee is completely shocked. It's ruined. The case is ruined. I think the President did the right thing in saying this good thing today and used that fear to consider whether it would be wise to take up other matters tomorrow. I don't think it's possible for the government to think about what they're dealing with. I think the result can only be one if there is to be some action in this case, that this proposal and, of course, the adjustment will simply be called back, the case is ruined in the hands of the government, and a new case will be introduced in the fall according to the task force's status. If there's something added, then that, otherwise, we'll expect to be proposed one of the Haggis, and then the proposal would be referred to an Environmental and Transport Committee, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u315	A respectable president. Similarly, I missed my speech from the highest. Environment Minister earlier, which I must make to be a subject here. It is described in detail in paragraphs 9 and 10. the legislation on the protection and use of the medicinal product, i.e. in the framework, the work programme and how to behave. It is an enormous and extensive narrative process in which you call for the response of stakeholders, which is the most important part of the employment committee, will look completely past the four activation initiatives. There is no consultation process similar to what the law expects. To make matters worse, there are not even two discussions about this priming option at the council, but only a subsequent one. of a synonym. It is unsatisfactory and completely opposed to both the letter of law and the spirit of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u316	Mr. President. I think the discussion of the day has shown an understanding. The members of Congress and the Honourable Minister of the Law on Framework are most slightly different. We haven't had satisfying answers to the questions we've raised today, have we? Councilmen of the government, which has to do with that understanding of the law. I can't help but agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who suggested that this case be taken off the program and considered that at least we can agree on the legal foundations, we who organize the legislation of the legislatures and are discussing this proposal based on the framework, that at least we can get together on how to understand that foundation. At that time, it would be better for us to discuss these matters rather than from the General Meeting's symposium on such a vague basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u317	Mr. President. I was one of those who eagerly waited for a talk. Environment Minister. I must say, it disappointed me. In fact, it was revealed that there is no policy in the environmental agenda when men speak so much and the south. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is when the forward line agents on the job board have a completely different policy and take over and drive it through with the Independence Party. Then the Environment Minister comes here and talks for a different course and says they're priming options, at least two most of the employment committee suggests that it is not part of the program. I think the advance team needs to maintain a second party council and coordinate its environmental policy. Isn't it time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u318	The President still wants to be right again, including. after the last talk, to the point. Councilmen are not meant to open up here a further discussion on the subject of the subject under this program. The president has tried to be very tolerant when it comes to this part of the program, such as being practised, but sometimes this is out of focus and has been this way this evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u319	A respectable president. The question is, What is the political situation of this matter? The political situation is quite clear. This issue is supported by a greater part of the administrations. It is not surprising that some ministers or senators are not content with the matter. [[Foreground on, "Unique"?]] It is possible and easy for a minister from the government from the last term to recall how they solved it. [[Up front.]] They just kicked those who didn't come together on ice. [[Up front.]] I don't suppose they're in charge of this government, as we were then. The understanding of the Law is clear in this matter too. The law does not state the case of the Generals in this regard; it calls for a case in the administration of the administration level. When it is requested that another matter be scheduled tomorrow, I view it as a form of flight from having a perfunctory discussion on this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u320	The president, for example, is not accustomed to celebrating particularly prominent careers, but he considered that progress was encouraged to be followed by Presidential recommendations not to engage in material discussions under the proposed meeting board of presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u321	A respectable president. It will be evening, and unfortunately, there is not much to promise here from the Hall today; as beautiful as the day was outside the door, this has been most part of this nonsense all day long. There is reason to state that a discussion about meeting management is entirely responsible for the responsibility of the president, and we in the government stand have repeatedly called upon to discuss the interests of the country's households, the standard of living, the difficult situation of the labour market and other things, and more beneficial than the law of more part of the employment committee. I also miss that the head of the positive group and members of the Agency, the Þórunn of Tentun Egilsdóttir, who declared it here at a meeting with us, the other members of Congress, this morning that she was going to take part in a material discussion about the matter today, should not have done so. The mission this has been made to the highest. The minister of the Environment, under the head of the Assembly of the Agency, cannot be understood differently, is, of course, so unlikely that the senator must come up here and explain in what manner this political party, called the forwarding party, is in effect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u322	V.E.G. President. I know that the President cares about the laws of the country and me as the head of the welfare committee has been refused to take up the report on the Subcommittee on the Subcommittee, although that fund is being submitted to the committee. I was also denied, not by the president, but by the council administration, to have an information meeting on the budget that's natural and that I will never be over again. But now we have a memo from the Environment and Resource Ministry that the Ministry is considered illegal to make the above adjustment. This change is submitted by a greater part of the employment committee and supported in part by the highest level. Environment Minister. I suggest the highest. The president will complete this meeting now, then sit down with a what? The prime committee, and they wondered how to handle the situation that has come up at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u323	A respectable president. What a thrilling day this has been! In fact, there is little efficiency, but people have been talking about a worksheet or the Department of Resources. It says that the Council does not take sides with anything other than the ones discussed in the Project Management Board. It has been claimed here that Hagwater activation has not been discussed in a frame plan. Here is the conclusion of the Framework Programme and to the conclusion of the 2nd stipulation, all trade groups have dealt with Hagwater activation and have graded it. [[You don't understand.]] - No, obviously not. It's right here. [[Up front.]] At least I can read it, and it just stands here, and I'll show you if it does. Senators want it. [[The president calls.]] Hagwater activation has been discussed. Whether more data are missing, more data are requested in order to organize Hag-water activation into a novelty group, - yes, yes, but it has been discussed. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u324	Mr. President. There are a number of things that are very clear, but that may not be enough for Páll Jóhann Pálsson to get his wish to make all of this known. A respectable president. I wanted to talk to you about the President's conference board, including the program. I said earlier this evening that April 28th had brought an opinion of a bill to the final budget of 2013 that has to be handed over. April 1 was the treatment of criminal affairs and police law, elementary schools, courts and a lot of EEA business, and then I'm just talking about issues that are involved in the General Board of Education and Board of Education. There's plenty of things I think we can handle here without getting upset. I believe that there is a reasonable proposal that this case will be rested and discussed better in the field where it is suitable rather than here at the council chamber and that the program will be taken into consideration, including, as it has been mentioned, we should not discuss or solve a dresser case here at the council, which includes making decisions on how we are going to have access to social, health, and education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u325	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, with the permission of the president: A Minister of Environment is not comfortable with the matter, as he is talking about the Environment Minister. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson says: "It has already been about Hagah water activation. True, that is so that there may be no evidence. This is the state of the environment at the International Parliament at midnight. The seminar class is completely humiliated, and the minister, in this discussion, is totally humiliated. The contents, and I was going to say, are reflected in the amazing nonsense that comes from what happened. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son and why. The head of the professional road committee, which will only be written in history. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Could we start off slightly with the bell so that people just don't lose consciousness in town? There is no way to set up a meeting this morning than to consult with members of the House on what tomorrow's program will be. This will be considered in the following article. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-12-105.u326	There is now a problem with several presidents. A warrant for a council meeting stands only for 12. There's less than a minute left. Hv. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingagjörgdóttir had made a sound about the President's conference board, but the president cannot allow this discussion to remain where time is out.
