ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u1	As we read at a meeting yesterday, the President's proposal was made: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. Specific discussion of study arrangements for the student's test. Painting is Sóggis Svavarsdóttir, and to the contrary will be the minister of education and culture, Illugi Gunnarsson. 3. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 4. Electrical law (systemistical programme, EEA rules), Industrial and Business Directoring, 305 suit, 1005. It's called "System" on deck. 1091 and 1226, respectively. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 5. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, the management of industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392 committees on deck. 973 and 986, leading committees on deck. 1228, continuation of the second. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u2	A respectable president. I know as much as I can. Secretary of finance how this vote goes, but come back here to show that the minority of this council is full of minds and will to discuss matters that are urgent in the community today. I challenge it. The members of the major body of Congress will vote to re-enact the work they expect them to do rather than hang around here one day in the area where we are now. By rejecting this program program, a greater part has already shown that he himself prefers to hold this assembly, since it has been the last two weeks. That's what this program is for, as I understand it. I challenge it again. Senators of the greater part have to vote with the program proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u3	A respectable president. There's a lot of shit going on in the community. There's differences in here, too. In some way, it is against politics that all of these differences have been brought into the process that everyone uses his own rights. The situation here is that people use their every effort in the face of extreme disagreements. For many days, I and others have tried to point out that the Council should follow a good example and try to use upbuilding ways and any means available in the tool box to resolve these differences, to show that differences can be resolved by a reasonable convention. They'd suck if they went out in a pit with a bell. [[The president calls.]] It's not the best way, but it's not a good day, tops. Mr President, to try to solve this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u4	Mr. President. Now we've been talking for quite a few days about the boxing and the attack that the board's leading part here is making nature protection in this country. We have requested to set aside the matter and make peace, to place the matter in a way that can be discussed in this case other important subjects that burn, I think, much more on the people, for it is clear that the nation does not eat a schedule. The pay does not go up, although a frame plan would be accepted here today. That's for sure. A respectable president. This is where we need to discuss how the government intends to proceed in order to cover the national collective agreements. We need to discuss the education minister's entry to the high school system, so I think the program proposal presented here is much more meaningful and better to prove what is happening in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u5	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says it's a good day to settle this matter today, but we know that we don't do it by votes at the Senate Hall. We need to sit down and talk and feel at peace. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That won't happen with the vote. It's been tried and it's not the right way. We've been talking pretty bad and we've been walking around having some blisters to get up here and get into the dirt day after day, night after night. Everyone is doing well, saying that fatigue has not begun to tell him, but, of course, it's miserable. It's exhausting, and, of course, it's not what we want, none of us, and I think we just borrow it with votes. Let's sit down and find the peace, there she is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u6	A respectable president. It is a specific problem that the council now faces, but it is difficult for the board to be here on time in the Senate Hall. Of course, the human race is beginning to be taught a bit of tiredness, evidently since it was the way it was, but this suggestion can save it. Accepting this proposal may mean that they can quit the evening meeting. I got it. I got it. Generals to support the adjustment in schedule There is good reason to take another matter on the program here, to put this big issue aside, and to focus on the crisis that our community faces at a job market. There is a major strike, and the council's period is spent on a case of no solidarity, and it will never be reached to remain here during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u7	A respectable president. This proposal is a rock - mass to the top of the board, and I congratulate the administrative part for having managed to force enough members of the council into the hall here to destroy that rock - mass. We know that it is important to take off this suggestion. One is that the majority of the work committees have felt the need to try to humiliate the Environment Minister of the Agency. Another is the wonder that they are being given the support of the leading candidates in this work. That's the big wonder we're dealing with these days. With the agreement of this proposal, there would be opportunities for us to take on other and more urgent matters and to find a way of making peace in this matter, which is well meant by all, the members of the administrative committee, which was spoken here last night, said it was urgent to reach. Is it not time to try to get the more administrative part out of the self - confidence he has in this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u8	The president would like to draw attention to this in an explanation that after the first incident, there is a rule in the Senate. The senator has taken up no other option of saying good - bye, only those who say good - bye before the first man opens his mouth to open his own case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u9	Mr. President. Of course, I'm paying this proposal my vote, and I think that we are here to make the most of the life cycle, as it was said before, in order to get out of the discussion we've been having over the past few days, and to discuss the issues the people in the country are waiting to hear how the government's ways, i.e. the labour market. More of what it is. According to my opinion, on the third day, members of Congress have made this recommendation my third day, the majority of them do not want to discuss the job position. So he is very opposed and reiterates it. And why is that, Mr. President? Is it because there are no solutions from the government? Because it has become awkward, the waiting we regret for all the cards previously announced by the government? It's getting a little awkward, isn't it? The rest of it doesn't want to talk about it, and I don't wonder, but I wish why. The members of the council are happy to be up and know that we have a good day ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u10	A respectable president. It is a new day, bright and beautiful, and the morning sun always offers the chance of improving its way, winding down the mistakes you have made, and trying to get your job started again. I think that's exactly what the Council needs this morning, that's part of the heated debates that have been here the past few days and trying to start the work again on a new day with new subjects. That's why this proposal has been moved. It is designed to be able to discuss the need for discussions in the council, and it would be important to provide for peace and solidarity in the land where there is no need and will truly be paid for the success of collective agreements. Thus, the greatest national benefit now being achieved. That's what heads of state are supposed to focus on. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u11	A respectable president. We condemn the situation in the community in which there is almost everywhere war, a struggle in a labour market as a statesman claims to reach back decades in time to see, we have here at the Allied Council of Iceland a chance to try to adjust for peace, at least for our own meetings and work, in order to achieve the goal of at least a good example, to isolate the problems facing the government and the head of the industry, to confine together the strands of those interested in losing interest from the conflicts that have existed here for two weeks. For their objective, this proposal is made yet another trip because we have faith in what it says is that there are others in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u12	A respectable president. The choice we now have is between continuing in this matter and keeping the council occupied with it rather than dealing with the other issues that need our attention, including the position in the labour market. We will not resolve the debates in this pit, but it is important that the Council discuss such matters, not just the future. On the other hand, it does not mean to blame the bad memory of the parts that are being roasted at the High Council when the greater part votes, as it turns out, that means nothing. There are at least two sides in this case. There are two that argue, and we have to talk to each other to figure out a solution to the problem and the only way we can talk to each other is if we take this matter off the program. That's the only way forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u13	Mr. President. There are serious disputes in the community. Iceland is heading into a very difficult situation. Tens of thousands will soon be in strike. The society is becoming paralyzed, that is, slowly entering a solution, and at the same time, you will not hear a cough or a lock from the top. Government. At the same time, you will not be able to see the highest. Prime Minister or secretary of finance, leaders of the administrations, at any time here in the house. Day after day, they order their panels here at the council to submit to the government's proposal to address the issues involved in this community. Day after day, they undo the time of the Generals and two o'clock. Councilmen, Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the professional trade committee, and Páll Jóhann Pálsson, a member of the Convention, hold the council hostage over a proposal that can be agreed well on. But that's not an agreement. This government is no longer qualified to rule this country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u14	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator, president of a professional trade committee, should only leave a note below if he has to say something. Of course, I will give this proposal my vote and believe that, as we have seen, it is necessary to change the subject of the program, to take this proposal out of the program, and to find out some process - unless it is the intention of the President of the General Assembly, now in the chair, that the Senate will be in this manner. I encourage him to think about his last term and to recall what he thought was the Senate then, whether he thinks it's something he wants to go to. We don't want that in the government position, but we have a way of stopping this. We already said that and we'll keep it, we'll do it, but we don't want to do it this way. We want to make peace, and we have invited. And at least at the right time. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says it's impossible to discuss the matter. I just don't agree with him at all. I believe the President can make a difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u15	V.E.G. President. We here vote for a new program program where it is put in place and for the most important issues in the less important society and that we take off the schedule the unannounced proposals discussed in the past few days. It's kind of Colombian they're having. Councilmen who insist on keeping this council resolution on the program were not here at this time. 10 to start talking about it. And those same guys. Most members of the council weren't here last night when we were discussing the proposal, but they now vote that it will remain on the program. So I'm completely against it, so I vote with the program proposal of the memory of the object.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u16	V.E.G. President. We can present modern - day Icelandic society with a lack of trust and conflict. We're conducting an experiment day after day to adjust the Generals program to get out of the way in the house, including important issues, education issues, and, especially, the conditions in the labour market. I think it's long since it's time we took care of these matters. This will be discussed in a frame of mind day after day. A proposal, originally proposed by the government, is proposed by the Supreme Court. Environment Minister, about one activation option. The whole administration site is ready to make that suggestion, but it shows in the table that the management team is going to cross a frame plan, cut the task management, step 3, that we will settle the case before we get the result. It is the violence that is taking place in the Assembly Hall, and it will be brought, of course, to defend the court and nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u17	Mr. President. I was just doing this, like, 45 minutes ago, talking to the former president of Switzerland. The Swiss have a natural democracy tradition in which the people can call for national payment on conclusions and laws approved at the council. I said there's a chance in Iceland and there's a secretary of finance talking about it as well as many members of Congress. I asked her how that would affect her. I also told her that there was a filibuster at the council. She did not hesitate, saying: " All they have to do is talk to each other. - And that's exactly what's going to happen. What's going on here, and it's been going on all this week and it's supposed to be going on today, people are arguing about the program while we're talking about the work market, we're supposed to try to figure out solutions, we're supposed to have circumstances to have a long-term policy. [[The president calls.]] This is possible. As soon as the people can stop us here at the council, we must talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u18	Mr. President. I don't know any examples of the end of the council, but I remember a lot of them and probably have more experience than anyone in this room of dealing with such conditions from both sides of the board, where control and government opposition, more things and smaller things, have not finally had to talk, work together, and reach an agreement of some kind. This issue, the humble adjustment proposal for the majority of the employment committee, is not a good guide to the inevitable task ahead of us and it is to reach some agreement on the end of this council. Whatever the majority does here, the reality will not go away. The President knows, and all the senators know, we'll have to talk, work together, and sort things out here so that the council can end properly. The longer the person becomes attracted to these conversations, the harder the project becomes, and the less harvest will be reaped. That's what I think the other part should have in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u19	Mr. President. I support this program because I believe it is very important to discuss the serious situation here in the labour market. We now see the potential for the largest strike in Iceland. Because of this, we had to postpone our votes earlier. There were no senators in the hall. Then they jump in here to press the red button and out again. They jump in to say no to taking up the serious situation in a job market. A respectable president. There's an incredible situation here, and I'm asking the president to handle that situation, calling the council leaders for conversation and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u20	A respectable president. I was here at 8 p.m. 10 this morning for a meeting. I was here until late one o'clock last night discussing these matters and not complaining about it, giving the last speech after midnight last night. You're right. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir said here earlier. Of course, this is a timeless situation. You have to postpone a meeting to get someone in the house to suggest a change in the schedule. Men are not even present. It has been suggested to take another matter on the program, to push it aside, which is not going anywhere so that you can discuss more urgent matters, a subject of greater peace, than you can continue, all the way into it. It is a disgrace to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u21	A respectable president. I repeated comments to last night that we were meeting the third night in a row until and until midnight and pointed to the fact that this was called under. 8 and 8,30 in the morning when people would have to be there. I was at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee at the time. At 8:30 this morning, one of the directors of the Committee was in charge, Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson. Others were not from the board at that committee until the meeting began to suffer greatly, and there was one more. The meeting did not even get legal. These are the people who vote by repeated not speaking of the more important things, who, repeatedly, vote to have an evening meeting for the rest of us that they do not. They don't have their own night meeting. They don't come to meetings in committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u22	It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u23	It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u24	A respectable president. This administration of the Commission is a very dangerous case, for by putting money in the right to vote on the duration of a meeting for us the members of the council miss out on the material discussion held in a Senate hall. I mention, for example, that I conducted this speech last night and discussed the fact that there is a significant risk that if one of the majority of the segments became a reality that one would play the critical reputation of Icelandic energy as green energy, and even risking that the inducers that would be built in this way would be contrary to law and rights would be the thing to do for all time, it would never be possible to sell energy at that price. These and many other aspects of this matter are missing materially, and the administrative issue is not involved in this discussion. The only thing that seems to be on the agenda on the part of the majority is to support the officers in a greater part of the employment committee in their quest for environmental ministers, and it is strange to see the candidates constantly back it up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u25	Mr. President. I have to describe a surprising reminder of that as of any given moment. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir told me before about attending a meeting this morning. Also, it is true that as there were not enough votes here, there were not enough voters in the house. I have also made repeated comments during evening meetings, such as night meetings. The members of the greater part agree here, that they do not attend to these evening meetings in a very serious way, though some have a problem. Part of the work committee members, particularly, attended. But this is always the case with the conference board and the activities of the council, no matter what. The members of the greater part work hard to avoid talking about the job market, and I'm not surprised, Mr. President, because this is going to be the biggest strike of Iceland's history. The government seems confused, and that is, of course, why they do not want to talk about it. Of course, that's why they're here offering a non-contracted proposal that runs counter to a person's understanding of the Law on Framework. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're being held here in discussions about that matter, because people don't discuss the job position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u26	A respectable president. Then the doves of peace, huh? Councilmen of the smaller section, let's start here one more day in a masked silence on this matter, offer to throw a cliff ring and make reconciliations to the greater extent in this controversial matter. On the other hand, the suggestion is that we do not interfere with this matter, that we take the matter back, that the memory of the matter is only allowed to organise a complete journey in the council. [[You want to take care of this without us?]] That's what the reconciliation is about. It is very likely to be a real match proposal. This is the proposition of my share: go home, you have nothing to do with it, leave it to us. Is this likely to lead to reconciliation on issues of controversy? I do not recall having been here since 2007 that such cases were handled in this way. [[The president calls.]] There's been a debate here before, in the last term. Among other things, this matter was discussed extensively at the time, but in the end, the majority of their share had a willingness to go through as normal during a democratic assembly. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u27	Mr. President. Those who are in the way of this, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and others who are involved in these changes that may be at odds with laws according to the Environment and Resource Ministry, possibly, must sit down and the President has to give them the opportunity to sit down. [[Wrong.]] Meanwhile, we will discuss other issues, such as the labour market status, Eyglóar housing, and the Eygló residence. Here today. There's no of it or on it. The remainder of the majority of the majority was found to fold and delay activation initiatives. What about some kind of reconciliation? If there were some reconciliation options, it might be possible to complete some of these options with advance notice that they were not allowed to be activated until the task management had completed stage 3. It's something. I haven't heard anyone talk about this. This could be possible so that the current larger part did not lose any month and could get into it a little earlier, but it would not be breaking the law around long-term energy dating. [[The president calls.]] Why haven't you talked about this possibility? It's an option. Sit down and discuss these matters and find a solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u28	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen should mention the problem. Councilmen and the highest. Minister for full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u29	V.E.G. President. First, I'm going to make an observation to the highest. In fact, the president will call in a hearing to assemble members of the board when more than half of the members of the council are in the house. We're talking about the President of the entire council. What message is provided by it? That you can take a break, not because you need people in your house, but because you need people for the Supreme Court. President. I find this to be critical. Hv. The head of the trade board, I'm going to be all friendly for the tenth time here at the council to make a suggestion. I have a suggestion that the council agree with the proposal of the government and the Supreme Court. Environment Minister for Impulse Implementation. That's my suggestion. Is that a lot of rudeness and violence against politics? It's not right. The proposal was adopted by both members of the council. We are asking only to wait for a project management with a change in motion from that point on. A professional health committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's a suggestion that's satisfied but no reconciliation on the part of the rulers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u30	A respectable president. Hv. Gunnarsson For information, Jón Gunnisson's proposal for the Conspiracy of the Controversy here at the Parliament to promote the government of Iceland, moved by the Environment Minister of the Agency, is granted approval in the Parliament. I don't quite understand how it's supposed to be unfair on the side of the government to want to be paid here at the council by the General General Assembly and to have a vote on the government of Iceland. And on behalf of the Group of Congress, there is a special request to vote with the government's motion. That's all indiscretions, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. No, it's true that these incompetent members of the Independence Committee have become so, of course, that when I asked here on the switchboard last night after the council's arrival, three of the 19 members were in the house because the 16 people don't want to be taught the kind of mess that the word is, they don't want to represent it here at the council, so they left the only three members left here today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u31	A respectable president. After this, we are going to discuss high school issues. A longer discussion was requested. The minister has not been here for weeks, and when he has been there, he has, as well as not answered much, and I don't expect him to be able to answer very many things in the few minutes he has to. This discussion has been requested to be extended. I don't know if the answers have been received but I think it's very important that this case has a careful and detailed discussion here at the council. One of the things we have put up when talking about a changed program, including the following: to talk about education, to talk about the chicken business, is to get a position at the highest level. The prime minister and some kind of entry from him into what lies ahead. We know there are tens of thousands of people going on a strike here on the land. What will it cost for land and nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u32	Mr. President. I'm convinced that I'm at the highest. The successful Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, and agricultural minister, understood the tools involved in getting more part of the proposal to move efficiency initiatives. I am convinced that he saw the value of it both for those who want to use and for those who want to protect, for those who get clean lines, and for those who want to accept it. He's convincing the highest. That's what the government's gonna do, and it's coming into the council. However, more than a part of a professional body damages the agreement and brings the situation to the fore. That's why we're here, and I don't believe it except that a president is now being discreet and handles this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u33	A respectable president. The bottom line is that this was the year of May when the Environment Minister's decision was made. This proposal went to a trade - road committee and became quite different. She was changed, she was five times, she was eightfold, starting with a verbal proposal, and then members of the committee have been changing it to and from time to time. And what has happened? More of the government, the head of the government, the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson agrees with the highest professional committee against his own Environment Minister. The humiliation of the Environment Minister of the Refugee Party is absolutely historical. I'm just asking, "How is the environment in the hands of this government and the forward party?" Didn't the advance party have any ambitions in the environment in the past with Hermannsson's son Steingrímur and Eysteinn Jónsson and others like them? Where is the ambition in the environment? He doesn't exist? Do progressives see themselves in this position now blindly following the metropolitan elements of the Independence Party? [[The president calls.]] Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u34	Mr. President. The situation was on the Economic and Business Committee at the end of the day. A text message about a meeting meeting was 08,156, and yet it does not need the tasks there. Apparently, more people have had a bad time waking up this morning. This isn't about to happen. Of course, more part and the president of the greater part have the right to let this one case destroy everything at the council, that's a choice, but the smaller part also has the Constitution and the legal guardian. There is clear evidence that we will use it to us. I have to say exactly as it is, I just don't understand the fact that the power of reason, temperative forces, realistic forces of this government don't start to act, or don't they exist? Are we just prisoners of the men who have done everything wrong since the first day after the case was referred to in the wrong committee and since the news of the changes made to a greater part of the business committee? [[The president calls.]] It should not surprise anyone. This war has been fought all winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u35	Mr. President. Come on, we're going on this wrong path. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson continues to direct the council with confidence, and this appears to be a power deed for all. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. You're just waiting for an announcement of the transition. There's got to be something in the pipes first. A senator has such an enormous grasp of the council. He's making a mistake at this council, and everyone just smiles and follows him for a good time, whether he's the forward party or anyone else. Will people not begin to use their own understanding in these matters and see that this leads to nothing other than loss of heart? We are at the National Assembly of Iceland and should show it more respect than making such a case hold everyone's work hostage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u36	Mr. President. One positive thing has been at the President's conference board during the past two weeks, that the international world has been advertised day after day the type of system error going on at the General Assembly, when the greater part has 100% programmer and the smaller part has the only way to influence the program, then to engage in the debate. Communion is a more systematic problem. This can be solved by the nation itself having a court of speech, that the less part of the nation can refer to the nation, and stop the confusion that comes from the council. Then they must agree at the Council on something. Though they are not quite sure that they will accept it, they can bring it into their judgment. I was talking to the president of Switzerland a minute ago. It is this democratic tradition of the century, and it clearly stated that this would be the effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u37	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat a word or two. Tenth. Smoke. S. but only agree with them. But I would like to explain the situation to you. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. Jón Gunnarsson. The requirement is simple and that a frame plan should be held, saving a frame plan. There is no room for reconciliation or some agreement to destroy the process in order to make the process settled. That's not possible. Instead of attending this meeting, we may be discussing other topics, such as consultations on legislation, in order to explain the procedure or such. No, there's no such conversation because we're busy here. Like what? paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson correctly points out that there is a systematic problem with speech. The problem is, we're not talking, and the reason is simple, the greater part has no particular reason to do that, i.e. while he's stubborn. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u38	President. I want to make a word of it. Marty's members, in my case, reiterate how important it is to find some way to start talking at the council. I've kept asking for it. They do not listen, and no one seems to want to be talking to each other and finding solutions to this matter, and not just this matter but all that is happening in the community. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. What we are experiencing here is something that has sometimes been defined as the violence of the greater part and is not a real democracy. There should be democracy at the Hall, should be found at the council, where we can work cross-cuttingly on important national interests. I have not seen such a will since I entered this special season and the theme of the present government seems to be: we do what we want, because we have more part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u39	V.E.G. President. This issue is in a strong hold, and it will not be solved by trying to exercise the majority power of the council. A government government that tries to force a case against a united government opposition that builds its language on evidence, as is done in this matter, and against extremely widespread social opposition is not subject to responsibility. People have mentioned the media here, and I believe the best thing to do is to put the matter off. Even if we do not handle this matter, there is not a hundred dangers, but the opposite may not be the case. Another compromise has also been given, the taking of whale healing for votes, and the distinction between taking the matter for votes and votes. I'm going to vote very strongly against the Whale activation. [[The president calls.]] Not all will be solved by talking to each other. We have the opposite view, but much will be solved by respecting the legal process and that is what has not been done in this matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u40	Mr. President. I agree with what. The last speaker here spoke. For example, putting the matter into place or putting it off does not necessarily mean that we can reach a common conclusion, but to a minimum, we can wait for the short time left before the project management arrives. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson tried to argue last night why such a great deal would have to be added to a novelty class. They were a very smooth, respectable president, to say the least. He could not answer whether his ideas were already in a novelty class. Of course, they were questions, but there is nothing in their hands. The majority of these actions have not been proved to be true here, but they are to do so rather than act with the violence that is being practiced here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u41	A respectable president. When another assembly converges after the weekend, the next Tuesday, expected well, there are four days left of the council's work programme. Based on the time we've worked here in these last days and weeks, we have about 64 hours to complete the Council's work programme. Because there is a lot of talk about filibusters in the hall, there is one thing that must be realized, for it is determined by some work that is slow and slow, but this is a case that is not going on at all. It's stopped. It's not moving, and it's not going anywhere. The changes in the production of more part of the employment committee are needed to reroute this matter. [[The president calls.]] There's not going to be enough out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u42	V.E.G. President. One of the ways the council has chosen and, indeed, the management board to handle matters is to plan for a longer period of time. Thus we have a medical program that has not been established during this election season, but it is not yet ready. We had a frame plan here that was trying to destroy. True, we have a national budget, which has just come in, which is a very good enterprise. We have no employment policy, we have no education, we have a government contract that states that there is to be a growing trust and harmony in society, we have a contract for peace in a labour market, and that Iceland is going to be the lead of the world's environment. Where in the world are we going with all these best plans? Governments regarding the issues to be discussed here? The requirement for the management position is to work by a frame plan, not a way to get rid of the way we have decided at the council. [[The president calls.]] It seems that the Continental Department intends to discard all these programmes so that he can make well - defined decisions. That's a sad fact to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u43	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask called earlier today after the moderate and sensible part of the administrative sector. I'm asking the President to ask if it can be a problem. The council members to come to a council hall to offer votes against the administrative proposals were just a silent protest of the section of the government that no longer wishes to be a part of the work committee. Could it be that the balanced and sensible part of the administrative part was there giving silent protests that are not being taken on a program that needs to be discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u44	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson earlier stated that there was no proposal from the government, calling for what the government wanted to do in this case. But there's been a suggestion from what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson to resolve this matter? It was observed that in the case of total lawlessness, Hags were reversible, and there had been no land or beach involvement. It's not to retract or bring back anything. Those who have long lived under control, who have to control everything, never have to beat anything, who don't know how to work with other people, show reconciliation, and come to a conclusion are so prone to drive their way and think, "I can, I can, and I'm gonna.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u45	V.E.G. President. I think it's a theory. Oddný ItHarðardóttir a pretty good pair of Cod new Hardysdótttir. I feel that the absence of members of the board in this case is so important that it is squeezed into the program day by day, in effect, a basis for keeping it. They can't come here a bit from day to day to stand up and that's why it's a silent protest. I think this whole theory is true. paritaprevir It might be up to a daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir to support and count reasons to interrupt meetings and that the president examines the sequences, knows if people are losing interest in this unprecedented persecution in putting four benefits into a novelty party. That's my proposition, my highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u46	A respectable president. It is always unfortunate when members of Congress fail, and because the head of the employment committee was not aware of his own history, it is proper to recall that it is not such that the Independence Party has brought all councils into votes. For example, when it is a major factor that has involved much fundamental interest and princeship in the minds of the House of Independence, including their committees and other members of the council, it is seen that they have prevented legal action from taking place. A recent example is the Constitution, just to be mentioned. On the one hand, it has to be noted that in other cases, cases have been given a vote because there have been laws of principle as the nature of the case to confirm the case of Mr. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, president of Iceland, who has the legal right to the nation. Since then, it has been called for physical abuse. Therefore, there is no way to distribute in this case, where there is a synonym and the only way to solve these knots is to bring national law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u47	A respectable president. I was a little happy when I came out this morning, it was tiny as if it were coming summer, and spring in the air, but that feeling disappeared quickly when I came into the cold of this house here. It is with absolute endemity that the president is going to keep us in this knot and this complicated and bizarre thing that a man with his wisdom and experience will not try to solve this knot. It's possible, and it's easy. It happened earlier. paritaprevir The attitude of Jónasson's son, who is a member of Congress too, is that we may have conflicting views of the whale explosions, but we are ready to vote for it. The decision is that the other four activations have not been legally granted. That's what we say here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u48	Mr. President. Hv. Senators Ögmundur Jónasson and Gent Bjarnadóttir have put their finger on the pulse in this case. Case at the highest. The Environment Minister was originally distributed on October 9, and applied to the program on October 14. That discussion ended, and the matter was certainly sent to the job committee on October 15 because we have a very different view of the Hagming operation. This was clearly evident in the previous round. the highest proposal. Environment Minister, but there was no doubt about it. The Environment Minister was fully authorized by the framework of the law to propose this proposal according to the order of the task management. There was no doubt about it. What's happened here since then is wrong. Congress members of the greater part of the work committee take it upon themselves to believe that they can enter a legal process in which Project 3 of the Programme is to work on setting 26 options and will submit the results of 2016. [[The president calls.]] That's what this is all about. Materially, we may have differing views, but this must be adjusted, for the Council cannot be so formalistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u49	V.E.G. President. I felt sad, as well as very serious reports given to this platform earlier by a poor attendance at a committee meeting this morning. Then, because more was not the right thing in the house, a vote on a program proposal had to be postponed. I find it extremely serious that our president at the General Assembly is in effect saluting those who don't show up on time at work and getting more time to vote on a proposal they don't even sit in a Senate Hall except perhaps two or three, but they want to have a schedule. [[The president calls.]] This isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u50	Mr. President. On one occasion, I was sentenced to hearless compensations for reminding me of a finger or some part of a limb on a man who had cut off. And for that cause it was said, The whole ship shall be Hafliði, if any member thereof should do so. I think this is a good time to apply. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, an animal could remember. paritaprevir If he ran the whole operation here, he'd be in charge of everything. I have to state again whether there is some rationality, temperative or practicality in the administrative and paratrooper of the administration parties that could do something good in these areas. It is amazed, the seemingly complete inexorability of those camps. Is there no reason to think of the situation, either inside or outside? Where's the task management in this country? There's no one there? Isn't the government nowhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u51	President. I find it very serious that these committees are published on potential important matters and that the members of Congress do not meet the major issues at this meeting or a meeting is canceled because they are not able to survive with members of the greater body. The same members of Congress will be spending a short period of time repeated visits to order the others to help us and then not to show up for work. What kind of message are these, Mr. President, in the community? Will you teach your children this type of work? This is creating a state of chaos in society, and this is the message that most of the Generals are sending out to the community. I don't think it'll help with a fight. That's what I have to say, Mr. President. This kind of attitude toward work is not healthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u52	Mr. President. As a result, if the President's case is being carried out with its hard work so by members of the management team that they can not be pulled out of the den in the morning to come to work to make yet another proposal to the government stand to take on a program of the burning issues in the nation. We're sailing into a very difficult situation in the community. We're losing a strike, and what is most significant of the news is at the top of the Council. The prime minister cannot be seen. V.E.G. There's no sign of a secretary of finance. Nevertheless, they direct their forces to strike here day after day with reasonable suggestions that the World Council is allowed to discuss the social problem. While burning Rome, they do not even play the violin, they do not hear any coughing or coughing from these gentlemen. Is it only hope, Mr. President, that it is a sincere but firm demand that this matter be canceled and that the matter should be discussed in return?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u53	Mr. President. He's been sitting here a lot longer than I have, but my experiences in the Senate frequently have been that there's been a lot of slowness and all kinds of problems. This has been a rather sad way for a person to sit down and talk to each other. It has been discussed the issues to go through and what people are willing to pass through and some such negotiations. I've never been in the position of participating in them, but I've been on the sideline. That's not the situation now, the highest. President, here is the situation of the government determined not to allow the lawlessness that the adjustment is made. Besides, it's hard to go to standard contracts at the end of the council because there are so few cases coming from the government. She's so useless, you could think she was in a strike. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u54	A respectable president. Here we are in an unfortunate talk over the unfortunate possibility of a major part of the employment committee. I heard this morning reading from the program Our Kingdom News, VOLV, and I think it's part of a meeting where we are going to talk with some of the travellers who are going to predict the consequences of the strikes. I think it would be better for us senators to interrupt meetings and listen to this aspect at the State TV and to send greetings to the Ministers and others who did not trust in coming until they were specifically called out to make a suggestion to discuss the exact case at the council and also ask them to turn on the radio. I think they're better -- well, I don't know, a respectable president, what these people are doing these days. At least it is not to think of the success of this nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u55	A respectable president. I have to make a comment, like so many others here, on the fact that a dignified president of every session countered to get the right part into the council. You have to ask with complete respect for the person who is an honorable president whether a respectable president would do the same for the lesser part. In view of the facts in this town, it is a reasonable question that, in effect, two decided on the highest scale. Ministers at the outset who should be the president of the council, and then, of course, a formal vote was given at a council hall. It's all part of the tradition and the routine and the law, but we cannot help but wonder how neutral the President's board of meeting can deal with the arrangement here. Now I have no more time to talk about this, a respectable president, so it's waiting for later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u56	V.E.G. President. I was going to make my discussion the way through Chets Forest. As many will no doubt remember, there has been a lot of excitement about where and how to build a new road through the forest, which could become a safe lowland road so that we can connect the southern West more closely with this part of the country. This took place in winter with the support of a certain minister who followed these litigators. Now you hear of the fact that the matter is inside the Organization and that it has taken much longer than was mentioned at first, asking for answers from there on the basis of the Organization's stand on these issues. It is very important for all of us, especially the inhabitants of the southern West, to learn what the outcome will be in this important matter for the community and for those living there. This is very important, there's a lot of structure going on, there's a lot of people and families who have to drive south for various services, including Some medical services. There are shops that need prisoners so that they can offer the services to be served, and they must begin to find some assurance in this matter and be able to do so. I decided to come up here to remind you. It's been a while since we last talked about it. We really have to start pushing conclusions in this community for good and to contribute further to the development of the region.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u57	V.E.G. President. During the last few days, the meeting director's program has been only a little too close to the change as high as possible. There seems to be a minister of education in the country without any discussion in the General Assembly. Now, even men like Björn Bjarnason, former senator and minister, are amazed at how little the public discussion was about these changes in the high schools of the country. He said on his website last day, with the permission of the President: ▪ These are big political decisions about large official workplaces. They do not work out without consultation and cooperation. The bus ticket around the Fish Room and its transport should serve as stewards and a warning examples for us. I'd like to add that this isn't just a matter of public employment, and then I'd like to take it along with the student's workplace, but it's about our future. It's about how people, young people, and hopefully people of all ages should be able to educate themselves in the future. Yesterday, when it was decided that there would be a special discussion about this matter, it was called for an extension of its time. So I would like to say that I don't feel like I'm going to work out when the council discuss this matter and discuss it at the highest level. Secretary of education that it's only done in half an hour. It takes a lot more time to discuss this matter at the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u58	President. I'd like to have a place to say. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir on her opinion as vice president of the Independence Party, well. A senator is right, and as a matter of fact. A senator of what's going on at the council. I studied talks here that have been given by reason. A senator, who has not revealed what the senator's attitude is in any speech since she took up residence as a private senator after being the chief officer. Minister for a while. Therefore, I find it very important to know what the senator's attitude is toward, for example, what is happening at the conference on the framework, because I already know that. A member of the mayor was a great advocate of cooperation and a efforts to find mutual solutions to difficult problems instead of the conflicts of government in these days. At the same time, I want to know what my attitude is. The senator is in charge of the number of opinions that are going on in the government, regardless of the attitude. The senator, for example, is in charge of the proposed changes and conditions in the educational system. I noticed why. A senator was a division specialist at the Ministry of Education. It would be very helpful to hear more from members of the government about the issues discussed at the General Assembly. That is why I wanted to hear especially from the vice president of the Independence Party about the issues presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his interest in my position on individual matters at the council, but I don't expect them to be enough for the two minutes I have here to review unique matters. Let us use our time to do so more later. As far as I'm concerned with what's happening at the council right now, I think I'm in exactly the same place as all of us sitting in this room. I must admit that I haven't sat here as a private senator before, and I'm half the man I am about to experience the things I experience every day, so I'm just completely from this chair. I think the problem is much bigger than this one case we've spent many days discussing. I have long felt that politics had to change, and this attitude has not changed since I left the city of Reykjavík and entered the World Council. They won't change unless we change here. I think the thing we've been discussing here lately is just reflecting a certain conflict culture that I think has to go away. I've been talking about it for years, but I'll admit it, too, because of that. One senator asks, that my hopes and expectations for success in this struggle have not increased in recent years. I've come to the hard reality that reality is more complicated than the dream of doing things differently. I think in order for this to change here, in order for the culture here at the council to change, something will have to change into our own thinking. We're here on a daily basis about who did what and who said what when and why. It is the picture that the public sees of the council, so we face the fact, fine associates, that the people do not understand the council. It's not just the major fault, it's not just the smaller part of it, it's all of us. So I can agree, sharpening myself and others as I regularly do; politics has to change, the Senate needs to change. If we are to wish and hope that the nation will take into account what we say, we must begin to say it so that the people will understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u60	A respectable president. I agree with one thing, disagree with another in another fine speech. 1st. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" I agree that the public doesn't understand the council, and I agree a little bit with that too. Councilmen to teach, the high Council. I disagree, however, that the problem lies in the culture of the high Council. I disagree that it is in our thinking. The reason I disagree is because it doesn't seem to matter who's in charge at any time, the system always works the same way. The dynamite that determines the decision-making process here is the same, no matter who's in power at any time. If I was at the highest. I'm not sure a government could put anything else under the present system. Like what? Tenth. s.. As it was correctly said earlier today, there is a systematic problem, and there are the rules here on a town that is the problem. One of the most democratic, transparent, and most complex ways to deal with the problem when the high Council becomes inactive for some reason is to give the nation greater authority to act when we fail to handle our assignments for some reason, whether it is our fault, our attitude, our culture, or our rules. It should be the first priority of the high Council, the greater part and less, to promote democracy in the country, even though it was only to improve the work of this town, but especially because it is called, people want more democracy, and people can get more democracy. In my opinion, there has never been a better situation to promote democracy than now, and we are under obligation to seize the opportunity whenever possible. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u61	V.E.G. President. Iceland is great, and the Icelanders are the most organized, at least sometimes. Is it not true, though, that most of us realize that Iceland is not a perfect country, like any other country in the world? But of the popular talk, it may even be thought that this country alone is in misery, and it seems that it has become a sport to speak down country and nation. Unselfishly taken in charge of individuals, whether acting in behalf of the people or acting in other ways. People seem reluctant to talk about the positive. In fact, there are some positive facts that we as a nation can take pride in. Of course, all of us want it to be good here, with no one missing. In this way we too can do that, for the benefits of change are sufficient. However, there is a priority to consider that the person with the lowest income, and I allow myself to say that in this country, a large part of the nation is just pretty good. For example, this may be the result of international travel and the increase in shops. The group must be able to hold back while under the legal circumstances of those most in need. Me and the Icelanders are valuable people, and now the main focus seems not to be getting valuables into houses. Rather, some people are going to win the race for who is the wisest to speak everything and everybody. We're very happy to make skewed and mean comments, and as a result, mobbing is always the most important factor in all the mobbing in this country. After this talk, I'm pretty sure that some will step forward in the world, even shave the talk, and draw out my ignorance, which is certainly someone, and bring out all - important opinions about me and my party. It's fine as long as it's smart. I would like to make the last words of the late apostle Páll, the Skúlason of Sulley, my last words, by permission of a president: ▪ The point of improving the world is to deal with the corruption in themselves. Being a person is trying to improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u62	A respectable president. Indeed, it can be said that not a year well at the Allied Assembly of Iceland these days. It's also not quite a business venture. We can see that since 1990, we have been facing a bigger battle than we have ever faced. We look to see that soon there will be a total strike of some 603/4,70 thousand workers around here, and we will not be able to anticipate the project more than the members of the council do. It must be time, a respectable president, for us to work here, and for those who are in a fight or working on collective agreements in a public labour market, as well as for the general public, to sit down and try, and I reiterate it, to form a new trust, confidence to talk to each other, confidence to be able to handle the challenges we face. It is clear to me that in order for us to continue with the work here and in order to solve the debates that are in a general labour market, we need to build trust. There's no trust. If I knew the solution, I'd have had it by now. But words always come first. I think the fundamental thing for us is to give back the weight it deserves and try to form it between us here and anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u63	V.E.G. President. Conflicts aren't bad. At times, I have felt that there was a lack of social conflict, that society was too asleep when community service was private or when industrialists have done their part. Superstitions who want to activate in the interests of industry and peacemakers, as we are in my category, can attack days and months without reaching conclusions because the nature of the matter according to these groups is at the opposite level. The question is about the other, to find this conflict path. The road we've agreed on is a frame plan. At that time, we must take full respect for the process. Then comes some conclusion, a suggestion, and a suggestion, and we can deal with it. No matter how long we talk about it, many of us will not agree on whether to offer Urordus, but we should deal with it. I hope society wakes up in such a conflict to defend Iceland's nature. I'm going to blow up this fight fear. We are to respect the channel we have created to cope with and discuss. That's what this delay in the Senate is all about. In our position of government, the administrative body does not consider the laws and regulations that we have set for ourselves in that regard. That's the problem. Then I'd like to say one thing, topv. President. Often the matter has been delayed during the council as a result of such discussions. I'll mention the State Radio and the fighting about it back then. I'm telling you, the bill has improved at such a delay. [[The president calls.]] That could be true in this regard too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u64	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss my work schedule, my work schedule, my routine, and my routine, and continue talking about the standard of living. Although the program will go slowly and the work at the General Assembly will be difficult under these circumstances, let us not forget that in a conflict, there are some forces that can be used to benefit us. It also applies to the challenge of the workforce, and I don't doubt for a moment about the highest level. Governments add their weight to the scales of the agreement. The resource use programme must be based on professional policies and long-term vision of improved quality of life. Here, a respectable president, among other things, have been a very helpful discussion, including the following: The fishing and housing management arrangements are essential, and it is very important that these matters become part of the program. Despite all of this, circumstances still exist to improve the standard of living. This is because the current highest. Governments already began a visit to cover their homes. The debt status of the households has improved considerably and much faster than in most countries we compare with. All government operations have contributed to the stability and increase in commercial power. - Yes, the power of money has increased by 8% since 2013 and there has never been more. This allows home to continue paying off its loans or to save for the first purchases of tax - free special savings each month. A plan to reduce the value of insurance is offered to eliminate it from the mortgage. It is part of a future arrangement that is needed to improve the mortgage environment and to create the circumstances for growing numbers in order to make housing easier for young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u65	A respectable president. Peace of privacy is the right of every individual. Even members of Congress and local government have that right, despite being in public service. Sickness is also a personal matter, a mental - health disorder, or a hemorrhoids, is not a cover story. Alcoholism is serious, and it kills a lot of people every year. Sickness brings great shame to the sick and to his family. I myself know a lot about that shame and fear of recognition, but the resurrection is a gift of great freedom and a question from the bottom and an increased trust is a gift of a new life in recovery. DV media has dealt with the drinking of senators and local directors last day. I don't know their story, but I guess most people just scraped it, others didn't, as it goes. All of us have history and secrets that we want to keep in the back of our mind and remain there. A respectable president. I condemn the media and social media that have gone way too far during the last few days, and DV is getting to the top today. That's a shameful discussion. That discussion has even extended beyond the grave and death. It is minimally necessary for the media to treat people with respect for their privacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u66	Mr. President. An Icelandic community is in deep trouble for some time now. The events have lasted for weeks, and ahead there are tens of thousands of strikes if there are no negotiations. But the government of the rich people we now live with has no idea how it will come about or solve this complex situation. Its focus is to put more initiatives into use, sell our valuable natural resources at the subsidiary value of foreign corporations, destroy nature bulbs, and give their long - noseed generations. Not only so, but here it is also emphasised on the mackerelquathane and few chosen ones receive it. I'm sorry, but they're trying the silver spoon boys here for the highest power. A government to set these matters straight for wealth while other matters are being ignored: a six - week strike, a difficult health system, no knowledge of what will take place, and how much this methodology of the right government will cost at the end of the day. There's no deal. A respectable president. What I want to draw attention to is the attitude. When doctors were on a strike, most agreed to negotiate because it was so important, and I agree with it, but now it's mostly women's working cast; radioists, midwives, biologists, and there's no deal. They also treat their ministers badly, the highest. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir and the highest. Minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, trying to stop a case or go against their will. The government that now sits is designed to protect the interests of the rich, and it's dangerous to our community. This is where the health system is being crushed, and it is privatized. This is to make sure that workers receive a larger portion of the cake and they intend to ensure that the natural bulbs will be destroyed so that inexpensive energy can be sold to their capital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to put this government away for us and for future generations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u67	V.E.G. President. A story in the Morning Press this morning encouraged me to come up here. The report is about the likely reduction in clothes and shoes and a certain president of the Association of Business and Service that these declines will fully return to the public. The person standing here is eager to lower consumer prices, however it may be, but I admit that I do not feel that it is quite time to take off clothes and shoes because the reductions that have already been made or certain by governments do not seem to have returned to the public to the extent to which the policy was made. In this regard, I would like to attract the attention of the world and the public to all things. 1282, a written answer to a signed query on the effects of the Iceland and China holiday contract, which went into effect in the midyear of last year. In short, it seems that the customs of the state dropped from China's import by 68%. It also states that the number of items that the public has bought or received from China has probably tripled. It tells us that everything has been taken out of this equation except for the pressures of merchants. I'm going to consider more closely the question I have in my hands and draw conclusions from that, but I urge people to study it because this is part of the discussion that will review the reductions that have already been determined, that it makes them impregnable to consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u68	Mr. President. I, by permission of the President, would like to quote only a good article written in H. by Þorláksson, the former head of state tax. There he calls for a discussion of whether the implementation projects such as we will discuss in these days,lastunda and others, are actually better for the public in the country. It involves the use of over 200 billion for sale, the cost of raw materials, the cost of operating, and the salary only lasts for 60 billion. Of these, about 17 billion are paid, the rest goes to the budget and profits of the owners, which, more often, do not result from the land of a daughter's company, so that these 17 billion and perhaps some additional because of their secondary activities are the only share in the value of the big business. It's only 1% of national income. These are striking numbers because it has been spoken of as being so urgent to activate because it gives us the nation, so much money in the box, and it can be used for the benefit of the people of the land. Sadly, though, that is not the case. Should we use our nature in this way, destroy it in many ways as far as tourism and those who use nature in a different way, when it does not make more money for society than this fine article shows? I don't think it's right to sacrifice much of the natural resources to foreign rings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u69	A respectable president. For two weeks now, we've been trying to talk about the change in environmental minister's proposal for a frame plan, and we in the government stand have attempted to establish that this is a huge form of conflict that man has made and that it is inconceivable to continue this way because we have not made it to land or shore if we continue on those lines. This will now take place under the program that was about to be completed just in the session of the council, the chairman of both members of the members of the board, both independent party and forward, speaking with a view to reconciliation here. They do it a little differently, but both have the tone in their own language that it is important to sit down and look for a solution. One of them specifically discussed the workforce and the importance of trying to find a common tone there, the other advising the work ethic, approach, and listening to one another. I'm especially happy, sir, for a respectable president, that there is evidence here that the president of both sides is seeing them and agreeing with us in the government stand that it is right to make peace in this troubled matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u70	A respectable president. After a suggestion. paritaprevir Last night, the god - Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son, who stopped the discussion and made the case go back to the committee, have further evidence that many officials see the need to look for solutions to the matter. V.E.G. The secretary of the industry, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, has come to show his disapproval of this situation by staying away from this discussion as much as possible, since the original transporter for the case we've been wanting to get paid but the administrative part of the committee has prevented. Now, the presidents of both parties agree with the members of the Parliament's committees. I feel that the monopoly, a respectable president, is called a meeting of the heads of Congress and that men discuss here in a practical way how the Senate can be successful in the coming days, but not many days left of a work programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u71	A respectable president. I've often asked the president to resolve this matter because it can be solved, I think he knows it as well as I do, and the disagreement is that more than a part of the employment committee adds four new options to the Supreme Court's proposal. Environment Minister. While we may have different opinions about whether to have a whale induction procedure, the priming option had passed through the formal procedure to be done according to a stipulation. Therefore, there is no basis to vote on that proposal. The four benefits are in opposition to what the General Assembly of the Icelanders had decided should take place before such advantages would be expressed under the vote of the council. It has to be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u72	Mr. President. I have a feeling somehow when I look out of the window that it's probably a ridge to enter the country, a bright and beautiful day, that doesn't calm down, not as low as it is sometimes said to make a person comfortable, affects people's emotional life, and affects all of them. In other words, there should be ideal conditions for this bright day, a high pressure over the land, that the temperate and rational elements of the government are now taking over in their camps and suitable conversations with the leaders of the government. It's about who's gonna be in charge. The rest of us could clean it up as we resolve some disagreements that have one opinion from a joint council committee. We would probably get along to make good use of our time for the rest of the day until evening if, for example, it was decided here during the lunch break. Isn't this an idea, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u73	V.E.G. President. I am, as if I think all others, beginning to feel very bad about the position that is in the council on this matter and especially about the great controversy that are about the adjustment of the majority of the committees that I am not going to discuss further. I have made a clear view of this in a committee party and here in a talk. I come here to agree with the members of Congress who speak for the deaning of this matter, take up other matters, and take this case to the professional committee. As a precaution, I'd like to report, more dignified President, that I have a letter to the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, request that a professional employment committee be called together to a meeting where the task management program will be called to a meeting so that the employment committee can discuss this position and the general frame management position. I've put in this letter as a backup that if it can't be held today, it can be held on Monday or on our regular schedule on Tuesday. There's a part of what I'd like to say here, that the matter can be taken into consideration for a parapolitic discussion and work to settle in order to end this big issue here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u74	V.E.G. President. It sounds like it's a good idea to call members of the council to meet them and see if we can't start this day on something more upbuilding than we've been in the last few days. I agree that there are now more reconciliations from one place to another than in the last few days. I think it's a good idea. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's strategist threw out here, saying that while members of the council could be taken care of or discussed matters that have been replaced by committees. I think this council could be a bit more positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u75	A respectable president. Even if we take out of the table the most important thing here of all, the way we're going to conduct Congress for the future, how can you solve the problems that make us here for days and how it seems to be for weeks, I'd like to raise a question to the high Generals, a very simple question that I consider legitimate even if we assume that the present arrangement is perfectly enough to hold a proper body of Congress here. The question is: Does the matter need to be treated by a committee? I think so. Various viewpoints have been presented in the discussion since then. The majority of council members. panel members who call for a discussion on a committee, which requires that men work together on a committee. It's a second round. There is no other process to put this into but a committee or to postpone the case, so we should postpone the case and put it on a committee immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u76	Mr. President. In the past, at the end of the council, the presidents of the House of forward came and spoke positively about the day when we should try to find some occurrences in this case. I agree with that and that we will use this opportunity to do it. The opportunity is there. The vice president of the Independence Party spoke of trust and management. We can continue to speak nicely, but it would certainly be good if we let our actions speak. It's always the best. We can talk nicely to one another and not be having fun with some funny thing at the expense of others, if it's delicate, but try to let our actions speak and show that we mean something by talking in the sense that we are trying to solve the situation but that it's not just some civil talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u77	A respectable president. I agree with the request that has been made to meet with members of the council and bring back the highest attention. A president on the tone that appeared to the presidents of both sides of the board, both of which emphasized greater reconciliation, referred to the situation in the community and in the council. I think we have to listen to this message, call a platoon leader together to see if we can reach the meeting to move this issue forward. Clearly, we are not getting anywhere, so we must keep our eyes and ears open to things that are happening around us. A message like those prepared for the council is something we must take into account and settle over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u78	V.E.G. President. We're up until noon on Friday before Pentecost weekend. We received this message in the morning that no meetings were determined in the major issues, i.e. Neither with BHM, where the government, the government, is the contractler against BHM, nor with regard to the biggest controversies in the public market. There is no great concern that the Allied Congress should also sit by and not discuss the matter or look for ways to determine the possibilities to resolve the situation. I'd like to ask the highest. The president may not be certain that this will be followed by the discussions that have taken place here with members of the Parliament and preferably with the heads of the political parties in order to work out a key role in handling the council. This is extremely important for the council, and it is important for society too if we are ever to regain any trust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u79	Mr. President. Then there's a suggestion. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller of a meeting on a job committee where a project manager could be assigned to discuss whether the work could be rushed and how it could be found on a level of reconciliation. Jón Gunnarsson could preach to a meeting of the fastest, talk to a project manager, get her to a meeting today, and start working on this matter. He has said, " Where are the solutions? Where are the solutions? ' It's called up for the job committee with the professionals to figure out a solution so I don't see how it works. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional board, cannot do that. If he does not, three senators who say the smaller part of a professional committee may force a meeting within three days, which will, of course, be done badly if they are not prepared to settle on the terms of reconciliation and try to work out solutions together. Now it would be a song for the president to take this matter on the agenda and allow people to sit on a line and work out a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u80	Mr. President. I agree with them. Councilmen here have spoken. What a cause for rejoicing! Councilmen, chairmans of members of the administrations, express their willingness to examine these matters. As I have tried to cross over and have done earlier, the issue of this matter is about two things: the physical differences that occurred in the previous issue. for the Minister's motion, i.e. The contrast between individuals and groups of individuals in general, and there is disagreements about the form. That's everybody's job. Councilmen, contrary to government and government, to make sure that the Generals follow laws and regulations, to employ good tactics, and to follow the procedures that we have decided on ourselves. This has been the issue of the President's conference board. That is what humans need to resolve before we can then discuss material things, i.e. Whether it is necessary for the General to decide whether we need to follow the right form, follow the laws and rules as outlined in the proposal. Environment Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u81	Mr. President. A request has arrived from quite a number of members of the council and an offer for various means of solving this case, which I believe has become the highest priority. Government and what. The members of a large part of the work committee to simply choose which way to go. I agree with the chairmans of the board of directors, of course we should try to find a way. We have been talking for a very long time about not canceling the conversation despite much disagreement. It is very important that we talk and try to find a solution. We now have a formal request for a meeting with a project manager who is very good, and I hope that the head of the employment committee will be there. Similarly, these suggestions have already fallen to the end of the council, to promote other matters. As was earlier seen by those now sitting on the President's chair, why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, has many other issues to resolve before the Council concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u82	Mr. President. Looks like something's happening on this bright, beautiful day. Arrangements are made by members of the House of forwards and by independent party, giving talks of a proselytism, and members of the council were reluctant to come to the chamber to vote against the motion of a political stand for a change in the program. I hope that this too can be interpreted in a positive way, so I hope that the president has already taken steps to bring together members of the Parliament to discuss the situation and make use of the apparently settled tone of agreement that appears to be in the greater part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u83	A respectable president. You sometimes feel like you're outside the house, and you really want to talk to the people inside this house, need to do that, you knock with your pen for days, and you ring bells, but no one comes to the door. Still, you need to talk to these people very badly. I feel like there's a little motion now, some face in the window, and something's been pulled away from some curtains. I think this is a good day to open the door, and we would sit down together in the sun in the grass, try to be exemplary in this society, and find a delightful solution to this disturbing issue. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u84	The president will need to remind you that although a talk is touching, there is a limited time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u85	Mr. President. What a pity it is that those conducting this house do not see to it that men sit together to discuss the possibility of reconciliation in this matter! It takes a second. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller to make a direct request that a professional employment committee be called together and there, as well as a project management program on a framework to see if there is no direct agreement that will allow for the investigation of the unsupervised and that will not be completed until the time period as appropriate suggestions for priming options to be considered. Of course, it is the only tool that can save it. For example, when you are sitting here, you are being prevented from having two discussions about the main features of democracy. Every sane man knows that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u86	President. I'm celebrating the great peace-making tone that has come to the board and that this case will be resolved today. It cannot be otherwise when the tribunal presidents of both administrations express such determination that they want us to resolve this difficult issue. [[Up front.]] There is no shame in the majority of the employment committees'involvement in this reconciliation process. I am convinced that when the members of that greater part ascend into a pit, they will declare as much agreement as could be heard in the speeches of their councils.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u87	V.E.G. President. Looks like it's getting a little bumpy to me. It would be nice to interrupt a meeting and review when a professional employment committee can meet and the president meet with members of the council. It's nice for people to think that there's even something moving, but I'm still going to be allowed to do this, Mr. President, to express a lot of concern about the situation at work. While members of the council here kindly speak, I do not intend to cancel my claim to the Supreme Court. Prime Ministers transport us, preferably today, a workforce report, what sort of diagnosis he has in his hands, and how he intends to react to this serious situation. Then it would be nice to have a special discussion with me about breaking up the insurance policy I've been waiting for months, one of the main campaigns of the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u88	A respectable president. I certainly hope that the hopeful people who have spoken before me, and the highest. The President himself before us about the good weather, the height of the country and the time for reconciliation, is right. To keep us on earth a little bit, however, I agree. paritaprevir It's the Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands, Michael's daughter, who says the work needs to be done naturally. There's been a meeting on a professional committee, and I don't believe it but that it's going to be on that request. But it may not be until after the weekend if the project management has to be called there too. [[The president calls.]] But I hope that--I think the clock is broken.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u89	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u90	Since it's not even beaten up to me, I'm just thinking about standing here --
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u91	For the reason that time was wrong, the president is tolerant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u92	The clock's broken. Well, I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u93	Hv. A senator has already got an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u94	A respectable president. I agree with what. Councilmen in the hall, it's a beautiful day. I sense there's a weekend in the men's life, and I'm glad it's a good place for people. Actually, I've not been able to get to that desk that's been talking about, but I'm glad that people are happy about it. There hasn't been a lack of reconciliation on this side yet, but I hear he's come on the other side, too. I'm warning you what to do. At last, when a discussion of this matter has begun to result in some success, something is breaking up. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, but as long as good things are happening, I understand, I just hear you guys out that something positive is happening. All right, let's hurry up, let's keep moving while we're making progress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u95	Mr. President. It was good to hear a word. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll, the son of Pálsson, whom I understood so that we should not be too proud. Rather, we should put these initiatives in the hands of an assignment and be calm. [[Up front.]] I couldn't understand a word of it. It's different to a senator. Of course, when they made these adjustments and were not patient while going to step 3 and professionals would give us a conclusion on September 1, 2016. I liked to hear it. A senator has come to that opinion, I couldn't understand his word any other way, that we shouldn't be jealous. I agree that now we're supposed to take the case into the pro board. I will speak to them as vice president of the professional trade committee, and I will suggest if possible. þm. Jón Gunnarsson does not announce a meeting with a project manager. [[The president calls.]] We can attend a meeting three days in advance, which will be after the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u96	Mr. President. When two parties argue, two groups argue, and cause third party damage, a party that does not come to the dispute, it is a good rule to force this party to sit together in the room and solve the dispute. In the state of North countries, this is the case, if a fight between two parties is harmful, it is a good rule to force this party to sit in a room together and solve the dispute. The people who have power by law, such as us senators, who cause third party damage, which is the people in a quarrel, we should be discussing it, we should be finding solutions to the problem, it's good to be forced together. It has now been called for a meeting of professional employment committees on this matter, sitting on the lines of reasoning, and finding a solution. Jón Gunnarsson has the schedule, and he can do it immediately. He should. That's a good rule because this controversy has begun to damage society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u97	A respectable president. I don't quite understand why we're here for a meeting. Have not both chairmans of the members of the Government come up and declared that they want to settle the matter and try to find a solution? Do their words have no meaning? How about, most respectable president, to the highest? The president requested that the executives of the government include words, and the president interrupted the meeting and gave people the opportunity to settle over what the government groups seem to be preparing to make a contribution? Not only does one member of Congress stand, but they say that they want to sit down and discuss the matter with us on a reasonable note, but they do not just continue at meetings as if nobody said anything or no meaning was behind the words of these fine women. A respectable president. I suggest this, and also encourage men to use the time and meeting of the job committee with the project management committee and to try to review the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u98	The President seems to be planning that at the end of the discussion about the President's conference board at least. ... havea lunchtimeout.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u99	Mr. President. I have to say, the joy that had begun when the members of the federal council had already spoken. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson came here in a pita. He didn't want to die, it's safe to say. A respectable president. If it's still part of the Committee and it doesn't realize it when I'm talking about a buffet of offers, there's some way we've already offered to leave. It's been offered to sit down with a professional health committee. A meeting with a project manager has been requested. The proposal has been proposed to be called back to a committee without the part being reviewed. There are several ways that you can manage. But first and last, that's how people have to talk. This cannot be done after the case is concluded, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It must be done now while the matter is inside the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u100	Mr. President. I'm saying like the last speaker, I'm not so optimistic that there's a lot of reconciliation in men, at least. not in spokesmen much of the sharp. Business committees, after listening to what they heard. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson earlier. But then, President, I would like to agree with the words of the president who now sits on the throne from now on when he called out for the moderation and sensibleness of the administrative sector to step forward and to say no more violence. Business committees, finding a way out of the situation of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u101	President. It must be in connection with a lunch break that it will be time for members of the council to continue working with the great reconciliation that could be heard in the House of Congress, as well as in the speech of the vice president of the Independence Party. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter. At the same time, there has been a request for a meeting on the committee. I think it's very important that it is put immediately in place so that the guests asked to be called to the committee can be called and therefore asked by the president to give a message to the head of the professional board that there is good reason to grant a wish. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller on this meeting and as soon as we can, we interrupt the discussion of a frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u102	So often there is a good reference next to a rosary. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this presentation. My idea of a meeting being held on a professional committee and the task management committee is exactly what can be read in the Senate arrangement for the results of the task management program itself, where it felt that there would be a decision regarding Holtic activation and Urrasphic activation needed to provide information on certain matters. In the influence of salmon fish, it is stated, a respected president, that national activation has provided new data and others on so - called seagulls. I say this, for one thing, because the original idea was that a minister would submit every four years a pact proposal for a new frame plan. This was changed to the council's affairs, and today the frequency of the council is said to be lower than every four years. Thus, the case of Generalis is that it can be broken down and taken more often in smaller ways, as the minister did with this suggestion for just one priming option. [[The president calls.]] We don't need any more witnesses. It's all right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u104	V.E.G. President. I'll discuss here along with another trip to the President's conference board. That's what we've been doing for days. Over us a ghost of strikes, and have done for seven weeks, in many parts of the community, which include a serious health problem. In the middle of the next week, nurses are going to have a strike. Mr. President. We generals may want to look out of our own holes, get here, as I've requested many times, chief. A prime minister to report to us how he intends to handle a situation that has come up, a serious concern for Icelandic society. V.E.G. The prime minister has been seen here in the hall. Yesterday in a swamp film to teach us manners, according to our own. I'm beginning to lean on that, Mr. President, to the highest. The prime minister has arrived in a strike.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u105	Mr. President. I have now received an invitation to committee members at a meeting at 10:30 a.m., so I would actually consider it a good reason to postpone this meeting now and that this matter would not be resumed until after that meeting, after Pentecost and prayer. [[Yeah.]] Once again, I want to use this opportunity to remind you that what we're discussing here is the role of all of us. Councilmen, as hard as any. Councilmen are more than a small proportion, being careful that the General complies with the laws and regulations. Hv. The members of the greater part have asked what they think this is not okay, what we're doing. I give the highest opinion. Environment Minister. Those senators who have observed morning news saw the height of the news. The Environment Minister was at a meeting of national activations, and I reiterate that she did not want a frame plan to be thrown overboard, as I recall it saying. [[The president calls.]] [[Taken out on: right.]] V.E.G. Environment Minister said: The procedure in the Framework Programme must be covered. [[The president calls.]] And to propose the highest. According to a minister in the Parliamentary Syllabication Directive for Hlammic activation, the activation of Idolization initiatives are proposed to be classified into the current series of national protection and energy efficiency programmes according to the legal requirements. 48/2011. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's all happening, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u106	The president asks the speakers to watch for a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u107	A respectable president. I cut it at the end of the day. The head of the professional road committee said today, when we were talking about making peace with this matter, that nothing had come from the smaller parts in that case. I now view the suggestion to change the program and to take this matter off, to set up other issues, to be just an attempt to make peace. It is a way to settle the matter on a committee, where there will often be a better discussion and a better one when you run up into the platform and try to have a conversation with people who are not even in the audience. So it's the way of reconciliation. Of course, if people don't listen to one another, they're all in a mood.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u108	Mr. President. The so - called society comes here smiling in a chair, staring at anyone who stands up and strikes her. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson has become a sort of ectoplasm of the head of the professional committee, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who does not want to sit in a councilroom, uses his wits. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson as a bellhop to do business and to prevent what every man has said in this morning is acceptable. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson has not only shared in humiliating his own minister but has also shared in crushing the attitude of the presidents of two councils of the government, both of whom have offered wishes for reconciliation. Hv. A senator should be ashamed to treat those who come here and try to make peace. There is only one man who behaves like a bull and keeps peace from being caught in this matter, that's the problem. A senator who has eliminated the rules of democracy, violated Congress regulations, and prevented people like me from enjoying the rights they have to discuss twice the major proposals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u109	The president asks why. Councilmen are now being moderate in their choice of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u110	A respectable president. There's a serious situation at the council. That's what worries me. Clearly, both sides are fully convinced that this situation is entirely at fault with the other party. Neither of the forces appears to be ready or at least not for the government parties to carry on with the problem and sit down to discuss it and try to solve it. I think if we were in the government position and the board of directors, a married couple would not be too much for us to be treated in some form of marriage therapy. I'm sorry, we don't have that way here. Hv. According to members of the Parliament, the tone of reconciliation is heard. I worry that sowing the reconciliation involves accepting the other person's acceptance of what they want. This is a serious situation. That's what I'm worried about, I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u111	V.E.G. President. I expected there to be a pause here, although only because a meeting on a welfare committee had been announced. The committees are active, and the only committee that seems to have been completed in the morning is a health committee, which is dealing with very delicate differences, yet humans have allowed it to continue. Maybe it's because the Chairman's down. The welfare committee is out of the memory of the section. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir. There we allow matters to take place. I'm happy if we've had a meeting at night. A pro board in the morning. Of course, it should mean that we should stop this discussion now and finish the discussion on education that is scheduled for the afternoon. If the government's representatives cannot be arranged to participate in a discussion about the situation in the labour market and the struggles and the consequences of these debates for patients primarily, we can't help it, but there's no reason to continue this discussion and to finish the second session. of the Parliament's resolution until we hear the results from a professional committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u112	A respectable president. I was going to name it as a dog. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson mentioned earlier, that the greater part said that he wanted some reconciliation. Well, I guess most of the money wants to sit down and talk about it. Hv. One senator says that the smaller part evidently wants it to be the same, but it should continue with this meeting and continue with the case that we debate, which is a frame plan. There's a contradiction in this. If there is to be some conversation, we need to have that conversation. There is a reason why the committees must not be at the same time as meetings. This is because people can only be in one place at any given time. We're supposed to be in here discussing this and we need to stay here to discuss this. Of course, there is not a jumpy room here, but there must be a pause at this meeting and postpone a discussion about the matter if it is to be discussed on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u113	A respectable president. Yesterday, for a fee of course, cream pancakes and jam were available. And I took one of these, and sat down with my colleague in my part, and the councillers spread abroad, which also had pancakes with cream. I found at this beautiful point, when we sat down there, that it's not so bad for us yet that good pancakes with cream and jam do not unite us. We had a good talk over there in the cafeteria. The government should know about this. She was formed over waffle cars, which had a good effect on the annual negotiations of the groups. I'd like to encourage the highest. A president to learn a lesson from this. The sowing may not be in sight now, but we must base on what unites us. I think a good meeting, with good pancakes with whipped creams - not shots of cream and jam, would be a good start, and we would feel the power of the organization from then on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u114	V.E.G. President. The matter is in full swing and the discussion will not go backwards or forward. I'm sorry, but we're wasting our time for nothing. We could be taking care of something that's cool. I would like to agree with the members of Congress who have pointed out that a meeting has been announced on the job committee in the morning. I'm going to allow myself to be so optimistic as to hope that something will happen there, that there will be some way that this case can continue. So, like others, I want it. Councilmen, cheer for the highest power. The president to postpone a meeting and take this matter at least from the program until a meeting at the job committee has been conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u115	A respectable president. I understand that there has been a meeting in the provincial committee at 10:30 p.m. that doesn't discuss the box and if you wish. Senators of the U.S. government. I'd like to ask if I'm not right, because I'm on the rosary, that I'm not meeting until that meeting is over, i.e. that there will be no conference until they are finished on the job board. It's not fair to us who are on the rosary, and will probably speak here today, that we are talking about a proposal which is actually gone back to the discussion of a committee and we don't know how it's going to come out of there. A respectable president. Although it's just an information conference on certain things, it doesn't make any difference. There may be some points that we would like to mention in this discussion if she continues to follow that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u116	A respectable president. I think all of this is a beautiful day to go on some personal mess, even though I don't agree with members of Congress; I'm not going to do it. Whether I grinned or laughed or laughed or what, I would have thought that one little smile, even though it was only a sign of positiveness, I thought it was. But if you choose to interpret it as a joke, that is their case, that may be a sign of the individual's problem. As far as I know, I was happy to see that there was reconciliation here, and the results of this discussion would be due, whether in the past, to the President's conference board or to what. I repeat, I'm celebrating, but I'm warning you not to get excited. We can't run. Even if the tone of reconciliation is finally heard on both sides, let us not rush into the race. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, then we can have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u117	Before scheduled sessions, the president wants to state the following: At a meeting of the Presidency Committee held during lunch break, the conclusion came from the President's proposal that a work plan would no longer be in effect. [[Take it up in: Oh!]] I'm going for everybody. In many ways, members of the Parliament realize that circumstances are difficult to deal with at the council. We are dealing with a situation that is deep and very uncertain about the way this discussion is going to unfold or how we are coping with the situation and thus the activities of the Parliament now. It is not all night out yet, far from it, but the situation is that it cannot be expected that the council will be able to complete the much project waiting for the next week as planned in the Work Programme. In addition to these difficult issues, many other matters are to be handled, and we need to take our stand, and we will determine in what way the council will be established, as usual, and all will know under the circumstances when the body of Congress is about to begin its completion. Finally, I'd like to mention what everyone has realized to the highest level. Of course, a minister of finance has proclaimed that it will be submitted to the General Parliament, and it is clear that working on that matter will take a long time, even though a president assumes that a court order of legal treatments may be able to achieve a good understanding between members of the council. It is also necessary to mention that there is also a conclusion that the kitchen date planned on Wednesday next week will not be on the day that television viewers are going to be grieving all over the country. A further decision on when that discussion can be made must be made that we take better care of a country on the progress of the council. At this moment, the president does not trust to make a date as to when a council closes for us, so there are still many matters of opinion that are irresponsible and would be shot into the air to try to make a date at this moment. Of course, there is a need for our progress at some point that we together try to discern within each time frame we plan to work next. The president would like to state that this is a real disappointment for him. The president had hoped in the longest law that it would succeed in maintaining the work programme and spending effort on it, but he must, of course, submit to the reality of which it is not possible in these circumstances to complete the council within the limits of the work programme that we have worked to this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u118	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A president for this information. I fully understand that a work schedule needs to be reviewed in view of the highest level. Ministers of the government have come in very late and have not come up with all their cases that they expect to be granted. When I'm at the highest. The Ministers began threatening the summer council early in spring, of course, the man who was headed for it. I make a comment to it that, while the top. Ministers are trying to bring their case into this council, so we senators must make that claim to the highest level. President to take the lead on the behalf of the Generals, for while something must be extended to a staff plan, it is absolutely clear that this extension must be within some framework. We can't give the government and the highest. advicelers check that they can be flirting with their case as if they've been doing so far, after all. Surely we must make that requirement to the highest degree. President that he will protect the respect of the General Assembly and that there will be further support for this extended strategy, i.e. Time on both kitchen day and when we finish our contracts within this extended schedule. That's the job of the highest. President on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u119	The president wants to issue what was stated in his case earlier, that he feels that it is not practical for him to suggest a hypothesis, and even less so as to decide on the time frame we have regarding the progress of the Council in the near future. There are simply too many uncertainty factors, but the president believes that this is his project, especially, and all of us, in fact, reduce these estimates so that a practical schedule can be established for the future action of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u120	A respectable president. In the case of the president, I missed knowing what will happen to this day. It's been set up on the schedule anyway. Workaholics in the morning on the schedule here, i.e. A frame plan. I think it's the most odd thing to say if we should continue to discuss that matter after the day because they don't have the information that is supposed to be called in the morning unless this indicates that the meeting is virtual, that man has no plans for the meeting. If the meeting is to be returned, we will interrupt the discussion on the frame plan today and allow the meeting to be held on the job committee tomorrow and then we will consider the rest. Other things are bad messages for that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u121	Mr. President. The final speaker is correct. If we continue to discuss the box now, the day we can, of course, that president has the theme, what message is it about tomorrow's job committee meeting? In fact, we waste a day because there is nothing new, we just waste this afternoon until the evening instead of discussing some other important issues, and there are many that we could discuss today and stay until the evening. We can be up late for the night. It would also be a good message in our community that we would make peace in the name of others. Two things can be gained by taking the box off, sending a message to the job committee to find real solutions in the morning when we found and start working up the lost time right now. I'm the highest. To take the box off, put on another subject, and send a clear message on the job committee to find a solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u122	Mr. President. How sad it is if we are to continue our regular schedule! The committee is to meet in the morning and what? Is it just some showy show? So there's nothing to do with that meeting? In any case, it can be understood that he has no meaning if the matter is to remain on the program today. There must be some information there that can be used for the discussion. So it can be understood in itself that when a case is due to be addressed to the committee under discussion, it has been called in. That understanding can be completely understood, at least to me. V.E.G. If not, the president will correct it; if it is the custom to discuss matters at the same time as the committee does. At least I haven't known it since I began a council, but it may have been. I'd like to ask the president to explain to me if it's been customary until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u123	It is known that cases are addressed in committees, even if they have been taken care of for discussion, if necessary, including the above. The maximum number of data found in the webseed. The president has planned to continue for a while after a special discussion is concluded in order to continue a discussion on these matters and still believe that tomorrow's meeting is a very important end called for him. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u124	Demonstrative.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u125	This was called after them, and they responded quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u126	Mr. President. Those words were most disappointing to me. President. When we asked for a meeting, a representative of the less part of the work board, to be contacted by the Committee on the issues discussed here, and to be assigned to the meeting, we thought that this was part of a solution to the matter. It can't be if we keep discussing the matter under the same labels here, it's just some show. They just want to finish this case because it was said that the smaller part would personally request a meeting and get it after a weekend if the Chairman of the Committee would not call a meeting before. Sadly, this indicates that this is not the thought we expected. I'm waiting for the highest. To consider carefully whether he is now unable to change the atmosphere in order to feel that we are looking for solutions, not that there is some outward show. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u127	There's no showy display going on. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Hv. Councilmen well know that they are being tempted to find solutions here, and this will has been accomplished despite meetings at the council. [[A complete show of sight.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u128	A respectable president. The understanding that the president has at this foretold meeting of the employment committee is clear. It's obvious that the President has no belief that the meeting will bring back anything, that he'll only be held there on a Saturday afternoon, but we're going to move on with the same knot here. Isn't the President interested in solving the knot? Doesn't he see the advantage of solving this knot? Or is he involved in making some play and some show on the committee stage tomorrow? I ask: Should representatives of the memory of the part spend their time attending this meeting? What's this about, a respectable president? This is a message for the council. This is a message out in the community that the president has no faith in the fact that there's nothing to mark this meeting and that it's showy. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u129	Mr. President. I have never heard the president of the Generals address the council in a way that is supreme. The President did this time, never in my life. V.E.G. The president doesn't even know when to have a kitchen day. He doesn't know when the council is due. He doesn't know when this meeting will be over. I have to say, I was very disappointed in the highest degree. President. V.E.G. The president says he must submit to reality. What is reality? President? Are these two Taliban members of the council holding hostage? I don't think it's time to get to the top. The President will start thinking about the rest of us who also sit here and have our rights? It's not only next time at the highest. To resign if, in effect, he is declaring that he is no longer in control of the council? He does not even control two men who have taken over the council as soldiers. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u130	The natural, respectable president, in this position, would have been interrupting meetings and having the meeting held by the Committee so that they could discuss it in this room so that it would be natural for this meeting rather than for a meeting on Saturday. Is it not expected that a meeting will be held on Tuesday next week? Is there anything to be done on Sunday? They're about to activate on Sunday, aren't they? What causes a special meeting on Saturday at the Synod Committee? What's going to happen on Sunday and Monday in this? It's a little strange to continue the discussions with a meeting that's supposed to put something into this job, I'd like to believe it. If it is real and should be credible, there must be an opportunity for humans to discuss what should happen at that meeting immediately, as follows, here in this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u131	A respectable president. I think very much about the president's list earlier on how the rest would be, or might not be, said or might not. In the list of how the program cannot be held, it is described as a conversation that has occurred with the secretary of finance on prime news that has not yet arrived but may be on the way next week. I haven't seen anything like this. Why don't we go to the top? The president would handle the case we're dealing with right now with them handsomely sending a clear message that the meeting in the morning was of any importance? It's the day's project in President's chair, not to wonder what's going to happen here next week, with prime news from the secretary of finance. A respectable president. They're here to tell us: We're going to have a formal meeting tomorrow morning on the job committee. This is one of the worst games the President has ever played in the case since it began.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u132	V.E.G. President. I ask myself, " Where will this end? ' Now a meeting has been held. The employment committee in the morning, but the discussion is to be continued today. Whether we look at ourselves at the Council or in the community, what kind of message is this? There's a signal that this meeting in the morning doesn't matter at all, he's nothing but showy. V.E.G. President. That's why I go to the top search. President that he reexamined this decision and every meeting not later than immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u133	Madam President. I was very disappointed when the president announced earlier that he was here to continue discussions on programs to address. A pro board in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u134	This meeting has been delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u136	...just like what they say. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u137	I guess the President's going through it with us. I hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who seems to be conducting the program during the council these days, announces some changes from his seat to the convention program. However, President, it would be wish for those messages to come from the President's chair, not from what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who has evidently taken over all the power of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u138	A respectable president. When the president began his talk after a lunch break, I felt hopeful, and the spirit made me feel that there was some guide out of this evil knot we are in here. Then it turned out, sort of right away, that it was just a play. The only thing President was to tell us was that all ties had gone off, and he and the government, or only the government, will decide what it will be like. Work schedule is decommissioned, and some day the staff said it was the best. Prime Minister that he was going to have a council in July. To make matters worse, we thought that there should be a meeting on a job committee tomorrow, which brings us to sea and country, ere. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, saying, "N-hei, I've just canceled him. What's going on here, Mr. President? What's going on? Is this a clown theater, or is this the Allied Assembly of Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u139	Madam President. I'm sorry, we're in a lot of loose air right now. Hv. The head of the professional road committee calls out of the hall a message saying there'll be no meeting on the job board in the morning. So we're in the middle of nowhere. I'm the vice president of a professional station. I'm not informed about what's going on. Of course, if that meeting had existed, this meeting should have been terminated and discussed on the committee. We know that when it comes to making a deal that if something is to be born, people will postpone strikes, and you can say the same thing about it, they will not continue a meeting here when men are trying to land, at least requesting solutions with the meeting to be held in the morning. Unfortunately, we're still in the middle of nowhere again. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. It's just a bit of a mess here, and it's sad for the Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u140	A respectable president. It's not too much of a story to say that there's a chaos in Iceland. The government is out of control, no one has a perspective and no one in Iceland is in charge of anything. At a meeting with members of the council, it happened earlier and from the talk program of a respectable president that the Council's work schedule was also put out. The Allied Plan is now part of the chaos of the governments. How tragic it is that a respectable president has made the decision to take part in the confusion of the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, instead of protecting the Allied Council and the possibility of bringing us back to some peace and balance in the affairs of our country and country! He has already made a choice, has chosen to throw away the council's work programme, and is valuing it into the chaos of the highest level. Prime Ministers of the Sigmundur of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u141	Madam President. Where's the highest? The President of Einar K. Guðfinnsson? It was about him that I wanted a place to say. To tell you the truth, I'm too embarrassed to hear his messages earlier. Isn't he the one who's supposed to protect the rank of the Generals? And what causes the big - minded Bolvíkur to spring out of the midst of the fire? I wanted to talk to him about the reality of the world. President said he'd bow down. That reality faces all members of the United States. There are two senators here. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson and what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who has taken this council hostage and has now taken the President of the Generals into a thread. That's what I'm going to protest against the highest. The president of the Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson. It is his duty to protect the Senate's honors. Don't let yourself become some sort of rope that two senators struggle with a body of Congress through it. It's against the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's at the highest. A president I want to talk to today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u142	A respectable president. I agree with what. Skarphéðinsson I think it would be right for the Speaker to sit on the Presidency now, but not to replace a replacement when everything here is going into confusion. He takes away our freedom of speech, at 20 minutes past two, he says all at once, "The meeting is postponed, because he can't stand the heat in this room because he realizes that he's failing his duty to protect the Allied Congress of Iceland against the unbecoming leaders of this government who can't do anything." They have stopped the council, the nation will all stop in five or ten days. People are almost in danger at the Hospital because they cannot solve strikes there. Those in charge of the Land Hospital are on their toes because they cannot handle disputes with government employees. [[The president calls.]] Where are these men? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] And where is the president of the council? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u143	Madam President. You're kind of gonna get real upset here about what this situation is like. I have to say, something is breaking inside you when you also hear the weight and seriousness that's going on around here. You don't really want to be here in this situation. I think it'd be good if we just walked into this Pentecostal weekend, just pull in our breath and bring a renewed spirit back to work after the weekend. The work programme has been changed, and I feel that there should be some limit, that it is not just open, and that the Council's plan has already been recognized as dead. We were going to change our work at the General Assembly so we could work here according to a work programme, but now it's all in chaos. I think they are. Congress officials who are responsible for this matter should look inside and think: Is it not ours to draw the nonsense of a country that has begun at this end of the past few days and weeks? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u144	A respectable president. When confusion exists in society, the head of the council is especially put to the proper use of the housemaker here. You cannot do as we have now, that the council president simply gives up for the presumptuous men most in the hall, the head of more part of the business committee. I can't live with this statement coming from the highest level. The President says that a work plan is no longer in effect and that nothing will take place in its place. It is not an option for the council to operate without a plan. During the time I have been at the General Assembly, cases have always been handled in a way that if a work programme is no longer in effect, there is an informal agreement between the council members of Congress. That agreement needs to be established. It's totally impossible on top of the highest. President, turning to the violent men on the top of the professional committee and setting off to upset the council to pursue them on their strange forest tours in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u145	For this reason, the president wants to say that there are many well - known cases of failure to fulfill a work programme and a work programme no longer valid, the exact date of the assembly has not yet been reached. The president considers it his task as well as that of other members of Congress, especially members of the Parliament, to try to improve our understanding of this great matter, which is on the other side of the major issues that have been scheduled for the recent and subsequent releases of the council. The president believes that in this situation, he does not have a basis to determine the exact timing of the Council's completion. Since no one would be more beautiful than the president to have this information in front of him, the president appeals to the question. Councilmen that we try for the next 24 hours and as soon as next week to reach out for this matter so that we can see in what way the council will continue to operate until the following week. Part of it is to conclude on this major issue that we have been discussing here, but there are also other issues, as is known to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u146	Mr. President. I was shocked earlier. It seemed to be opening windows for an agreement earlier today or this morning. The presidents of the major body spoke on soft terms, and a meeting was announced on the job committee in the morning. I assumed that we would see behind the box from the discussion on this day and even if only the wise decision would be made to make it enough to complete the special discussion below. But the president's words fell in part differently. Fires are burning all around Iceland's government. The situation at work is more serious than it has been for decades. The country's secondary school is on fire, and high school officials and high school officials send out an emergency call that never gets out of it before. The Minister of Education, behind the scenes, is going to try to get by in the education system. At the same time that the General Programme explodes in the face of the President, there is a request for a good weather before the coming and future majors enter the council. [[Taken out on: right.]] How does the president think this can go on unless the majority of the items begin to show some willingness to create an atmosphere so that the Senate can be completed at any time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u147	The president is well aware that the key to reaching out is that members of the council discuss these matters. The president is always prepared to try to pay and, in fact, have done so. telecommunications that the president believes were put on to try to achieve success, although the result is not yet ported.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u148	A respectable president. I told them earlier that if the box was to continue, despite the fact that the case was scheduled in a committee, it has been accepted into a committee with a meeting announced in the morning and seen on the General Web site, it would be reasonable for me to put the matter aside at the General Assembly and take it back up after the weekend. But the president does not trust to do so, so it is only natural to ask, " Why can't the president make such a decision? ' Is it because people walk here like a boy. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Osse said that the President is not in control of this council himself? I'm going to let a president enjoy the doubt and ask him to try to create peace, although only one point of the case that is allowing men to have a calm meeting on the subject in the morning at a professional committee - unless that meeting was just a show. [[The president calls.]] When a man walks out like a dog. paritaprevir In the audience, Jón Gunnarsson thinks that it should have been like this, that the meeting was supposed to be some show.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u149	The president says that he hopes in this meeting but that despite it, he can continue his material discussion. [None of the council hall.] That's President's assessment. Nevertheless, the meeting that has been announced includes the task management program as the president is best aware, and he views it as a serious meeting to try to understand the matter. [[For example, consider: A agreement with who?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u150	Mr. President. I don't know if that's the focus of the current hiccup. Governments in a culture that makes the leaders of the greater part appear to experience themselves, like the superpowers of the Sturbian Age, and cause war wherever they come, in one case after another. And although we have spent the last few days discussing one big, complicated issue, many other major issues are being announced that the council will enter into complete uncertainty about the continuation of matters at the council. I know that a respectable president is a well - read reader in Sturlugu, so I think it would be wise to try to postpone a meeting after the special discussion that follows, and to make conversation that a respectable president has spoken about going on before this hardy meeting will be even worse than we've seen. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u151	V.E.G. President. ▪ If it is, and if it should, I'm going to talk later if the president is going to continue the program despite the loud protests of members of Congress. I just have to say, topv. Mr President, I'm being asked to discuss a case that will be discussed tomorrow on a professional committee to try to change it. We have declared that we will not allow this adjustment to pass through, the lawlessness that it is. Here are some issues that may need to be handled. Then a council can be suspended and assembled if a large case demands it. I don't think it would be a problem to stick to this schedule if sense was once allowed to operate at the highest level. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u152	President. I believe it right to say that the President will immediately interrupt the meeting because there's some very misleading information going on here. Earlier, it called out why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said the meeting won't be in the morning. I think it's time. A senator informed the President and the United States of Congress about this. All I have to say is, I'm the Western, okay? To listen to the warnings and fine counsel that came from the council, a member of Parliament and its president listened to the counsel and counsel. þm. Katrín Jacob's daughter. [[Up front.]] It does not make sense for a president to read in such a way that it is wise and acceptable to continue with the meetings in relation to the state of the House and the folly of having this matter on the program in view of the very large and urgent issues being brought in and urged that they are resolved. [[The president calls.]] This is not to say that it will be possible to have a normal assembly. It's perfectly clear, Mr. President, and I challenge you to listen to us once.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u153	It was called for information about this meeting that has been announced. Hv. The head of the professional road committee is on the rosary later and is likely to be able to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u154	A respectable president. I'll come back here again and...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u155	Apparently, the president has made mistakes and has been given that information to the mind. A senator has already spoken twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u156	Is the president going to dismiss me from the platform?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u157	Hv. A senator is made up of Congress like the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u158	I will. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u159	Mr. President. The International Assembly meeting that had been announced in the morning is now in progress. Whether it had happened or he's supposed to be on Tuesday, after the weekend, I think it must mean that it has entered the Committee. It would be best for both the matter and the council to make us warm for now and to enter Pentecost in good spirits. As far as I can remember, during the last term, Congress has been postponed for a couple of days while some agreement was made on the end of Congress. At that time, there was nothing to be held in church while trying to solve a situation. I think it's fine, in view of the need here, as mentioned earlier, to ask for good weather on many other issues and on the progress of the council to the government. I'm calling for this conversation right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u160	In view of this information as a matter of course. A senator would like to call attention to the meeting of the prime committee and members of the House of Congress that the president reported that he was about to begin his meeting on Tuesday, not at 10 o'clock in the morning, so that, among other things, there might be room for committees without the president's intention to counsel on this. The president wanted to turn that information up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u161	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president of the council says that he is deeply grieved that a program was not established. He says he wants to pay for this dispute, this knot, which is now at the council. Still, he has the program and he could have sent a message to this meeting that was due tomorrow on the job committee and so paid to solve it by saying: "I'm off the program now, you take it up with a professional committee, find a solution, bring it back to the council once you have found a solution, or I won't take it on. He could have paid for it. Or just say, "I'll take it off now. " Find a solution. Let's see what we can do after the weekend. Thus he could have paid for it. He has the power to do so. The meeting's now been said it won't be in the morning. Why? Because there is one member of the project board abroad. No, I don't believe that this party can't be found at a phone meeting for the rest of this day and until tonight--he says it's not possible and that it can't be done either all day tomorrow to get it at a telephone meeting. [[It's been tried...]] [["The Chairman... "]] What about Sunday? [[The president calls.]] What about Monday? [[It's up to me, I'm up to it.]] Is that what you're gonna do? That's what the Chairman's willing to do. Listen, I'm really happy about this. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u162	V.E.G. President. I think that everyone must be fresh in memory when it's the highest level. The president gave a talk at the beginning of the assembly in his day when he took power and encouraged changes in his work, encouraging the need to get bills in the assembly at the proper time. At the end of the Council's Work Programme, we are now at the end of the Council. The president has had to blow up a work plan, and you have no idea what will happen. I guess there's some kind of bills. Maybe there's a bill that says we're going to have to take care of a cash register and something about the housing. [[Up top, maybe.]] None of this has been determined. The humiliation of the Supreme Being. He receives messages, gives a speech in the president's chair, and tells us what it will be like. He says that there will be a meeting tomorrow on the job committee and then we have to take messages from the hall that the meeting is no longer planned. I think it's the government's treatment at the highest level. The words of the president suggest that there is good reason to consider them in particular. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u163	Hv. A senator is well aware that it is not the responsibility of a president to present meetings in individual committees or to determine the timing of those matters. It is the responsibility of the head of the panel and is expected to be done in best consultation with members of the Committee to ensure that this is the case. Callers can show up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u164	A respectable president. It is claimed that the council is all upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u165	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u166	There's no one upset, a respectable president, except the smaller part of this council. He shows such an attitude that the same is not true at the council, at least. Not that I remember. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is totally unacceptable for members of Congress to act in the way presented here, but it is good that people at times show their people the right face. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u168	[[Up front.]] We are facing threats of misdirected opportunities in this matter that have not been reasoned with one legal opinion. [[Up front.]] This is the situation, a respectable president. There was a request from earlier times. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller was meeting with a project management committee. I announced this meeting in the morning, later learning that the chairman of the project management is abroad, arriving on Monday on the first part of the country. He can't hang out with us at a phone meeting tomorrow, where he's busy. That's the situation. I'm ready to meet at any time because of the case, but in itself, I don't expect anything new to happen at that meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] The committee has earlier met with a project management on this matter, and I don't see what it should do with itself. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] I don't know that any new information has been received from a project management on this. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u169	Then President knows what to do. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u170	V.E.G. President. On the side of the government, there is no improper place. Here are conflicts between states, metropolitans, industrialists on the other hand, and land protectors who want to protect our country. We will never, ever hold back when all legal processes are passed and we will try to put up with the damages of nature that we cannot accept. Do they think we have no responsibility to the part of the nation that has sent us into the council to protect our country? [[Up front.]] Is that what they think? Nothing indecent takes place on our part. In this case, we are going to be conquered by industrialists and creatives, but that will not happen. We won't let that happen. [[The president calls.]] We have a responsibility to this country, and we choose our voters, and we are going to fulfill that obligation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u171	A respectable president. V.E.G. Now the news has been heard by the President. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson moved here because the manager of the project management will be available for a meeting after a weekend. I believe that this discussion will be postponed here today, that on Tuesday after lunch we will resume it and give the opportunity on Tuesday morning to meet with project management and further consultations. If the president doesn't make the decision, he will only give them one announcement today that a work plan is not in force and the government has only free cards to allow the superiors to continue and move on all over without regard for any one person at the highest level. President to break off total peace at the General Assembly and take position with the most exaggerated elements in a chamber who have chosen to compromise with the law and rights and to waltz around here with the blessing of the leading members of the board. [[The president calls.]] The president must not take that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u172	President wants to correct what he's said before. When this has been done so that a work schedule has not been established, there are a number of cases that have not been established. In fact, the president believes that it is a rule rather than an exception. On the other hand, the president wants us to look for ways to reach our subject, but then there will be some basis for it. This major issue is unclear, and that is primarily what we realize is the loss of this issue. We need to try to work things out, and at the same time, we will be able to reach out for the work that is involved in the release of other cases at the council. Therefore, the president is not confident that he will produce a time - appointed schedule that he has no basis to determine if he can succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u173	Mr. President. You can't say that there is an agreement, whether at or not. Chairman of the employment committee or anyone else in the greater part of the world. Therefore, it is not unusual for the government to see, as it has been so many times, that it is a formal meeting whenever it will be held. V.E.G. The president spoke of meetings being preached in cooperation, but what? The vice president of the professional trade committee had no idea when it was announced to this meeting and why he was canceled until she heard it from a speaker's chair. That's not where the cooperation is for going. If this is to continue and complete a council sometime during the summer or when it can be done, a conversation must be made. We have to finish this program, finish it with the special discussion, then take a break, and get well rested after the weekend to hopefully discuss a reasonable outcome. It's all on fire at the Council and at work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u174	V.E.G. President. I come back here to express my concern that I should speak up when there is no question about the development of the matter. I'm waiting for the highest. To respect the fact that I don't like being treated as a senator is that I don't know the language I'm supposed to talk about. In terms of a work schedule change, it's my experience in the few years I've been sitting here, although a council extension has been held on kitchen days. Perhaps a schedule has been unplugged because May 27 was the next to be a kitchen day. It is the day the nurses plan to start a strike that didn't agree with them. Maybe the government doesn't have the guts to be here for a night meeting in that situation. It may well be, but then I suggest that it discuss with us the seriousness of the job market situation rather than display its fear by disassociating the council's work programme. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u175	For word's sake. The senator on the kitchen day would like to state that the view of postponing a kitchen date had a general sound base, would like the president to state, among the heads of the council and the party. They simply considered it more reasonable to have the kitchen day near the coming end of the council. The president is aware, however, that in the absence of a work plan, many have stuck to the kitchen day, but many have found it unconcerned. The president does not feel that he is exaggerating members of the council when he says that it was more reasonable, more reasonable, and normal for them to have the kitchen day near the coming end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u176	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The wonder of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson calls us, along with others, creative and industrialists, thinking that the smaller part here is a protection guard and a duty to land and voters. This includes a tremendous double standard, as in all this debate by the minority, because the big business and activation projects that are about to take place are being offered. There are these groups who accepted the executive assignment at Bakka at Húsavík. These groups are now being built up as geothermal activations in Lake Mey are being built. Then these people come here and accuse us of having some big industrial policy. This is the last major business that was delivered through the council, with more appeal than any other major industry. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I think this is going to show the situation well, and I think now the head of the minor parties at the council would be expected to talk to some of their people here who are totally missing out on this discussion, I must say. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] I've often liked breathing, like cot. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir told me earlier during the Pentecostal weekend, but I can only say that it is good to walk around the Tjörn one round, then come back and participate in a more objective discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u177	With?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u178	V.E.G. President. It's going to be a little fun with this discussion. The head of the professional trade committee, who has been in a program forever, spoke of endless delays and that nothing has been done during the last term, now says that the former government was a major company and began a number of projects. [[Up front.]] When men talk of men as double stories, I think it's true. A senator should consider his case. On the other hand, I was going to apologize for having said something to the highest level. He should be in charge of the council committees and when they were found. I'm going to ask the highest. President, the highest. The president will allow the head of the pro board to conduct the council. He comes here and says, "This case will be on the schedule, it will not be canceled. It's gonna be over. We're not gonna relax. The target of the day is at the highest level. President. If he thinks this is the best solution, it is the responsibility of the president that the program is as it is. I think that's what we're calling out for, that men now know to the senator and the highest. The president will take this matter off the program, wait for the board to be decommissioned, and then we will hear the rest. [[The president calls.]] We cannot be told that a meeting is to be held, but the director of the employment committee tells us that nothing will come out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u179	A respectable president. I would like to receive a little appreciation from a respectable president of the United States about how much he respects the time of the Generals. If this matter is itself, how they would like to blame one another, has made it impossible for us to have a schedule and not know when a firehouse day will have to ask a respectable president: What is enough? When will a respectable president consider the option of simply putting the matter on schedule until a committee has discussed it and will find some agreement on how to proceed? Now we've been asking for this for two weeks. The majority of things have done little more than complain that we ask for it. What's enough, Mr. Honorable President? What if we stay here in September? Will a respectable president think things over again? What does it take, Mr. Honorable President? What's enough? [[The president calls.]] When does a respectable president get enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u180	Although the value of time may not be ignored by the president, it has still been tried by prisoners to pay for solutions to these materials. He hasn't had anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u181	V.E.G. President. I have a certain understanding of the state of the council president and a measure of compassion as well. I'm sure it's not that much fun to have to do this with the government on your back. But I would like to show people not to call one another violent and presumptuous, even though we are in a hot mood. I don't think those fine gentlemen on the pro board are like that, even though they're more paradox than anything I've ever known. They must now think about what position they have already made for us and the council. There is an incredibly easy solution to this dispute, the reason why. The head of the professional road committee and the majority of it just retract the motion and make the case work. It would create peace in here and in the community, and we could all go east of the mountain together and talk to the inhabitants of the land on the banks of the river and listen to their view. Their land is about to be submerged.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u182	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm very sorry about the position that has come up right now because I had the expectations that there would be a meeting on the job committee and I'm calling for the project management of a frame plan to review some opinion. It seems that the meeting cannot be held that is thought - provoking. However, a dignified head of the professional trade committee comes here and makes it clear very clear that he believes that such a meeting would never have returned anything. In advance, there's a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has come to the conclusion of that matter. As in the frame plan, he does not feel that he needs to listen to anyone, and it's so serious that we should be in this place, worse today than yesterday, because the Chairman of the Committee is having even more conflict in this matter. I must say, I am very sorry and deeply worried about the situation that has come up and gone. A senator maintains, and he seems to have the entire body of Congress on this expedition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u183	Mr. President. It was quite the peacetone in the Chairman of a greater part of the trade committee earlier. There should be no failure if there is a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson usually goes to the platform to let everything up, to make the knot harder. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson strikes another unnamed incident. A senator, a peace wreck that I'm not going to mention that white trash is ahead of us. Mr President knows my will. I tried a meeting on the Presidency Committee to advise the president that, following the slight thawing into the hall before noon, it would be wise not to move more on the box today and let men go home after the special discussion. If the highest. The president will continue, stubbornly entering the discussion after the special discussion, I ask the president to consider one thing. He will be restored to Congress on Tuesday in exactly the same situation. Is it worth it? Why not try to open some windows and look out over the weekend?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u184	V.E.G. President. Because of the discussion of a meeting on a professional committee I wanted this morning and a president, okay? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, quickly responded and announced it at 9:30 a.m., which I was pleased with, I would like to say, however, is now discovered that the head of the project management is abroad and will not arrive in the country until Monday afternoon. I think it's very important that he sit down. That's why I say in my mind that these are the circumstances we are facing right now. All right, so let's have the meeting this afternoon on Monday, because it's the right thing to look at the senators who leave the country, or on Tuesday morning. The president has also offered that a meeting on Tuesday might start later than 10:00 p.m. Then we'll have more time for a committee in the morning. I'm not quite the same as some who have said that meetings on the committees of Generalis don't understand anything. They usually provide something, though, different. I think it's important that this meeting be held, and that's why I say for my part that I don't care if I come to a meeting this afternoon on Monday or Monday night or Tuesday morning, but I'm upset at Pentecost, with the Christian Democrats, I'll probably go to church then or celebrate that day. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u185	Mr. President. I think we all know who we're in here that if we're going to get some sort of solution into this situation, we're gonna have to talk, not from the Ponta AlIIis, but talk to each other. Right now, there is no human speaking to resolve this matter. There's no conversation going on. I don't think it's right to keep tightening the knot, because that's what happens when you hear it. The head of the prosecuting committee will come here and say that there has been no evidence that these are bad practices, and they'll conflict with the framework laws. He thus downplays his report on the highest. Minister of the environment in the government I thought it was. The head of the professional road committee supports where the proposal is made as clearly and clearly as possible. A minister is presented exactly as a project manager requested. Even though it's the highest. A minister would have wanted to suggest more initiatives, but he did not rely on them, for he did not want to walk past the law on the frame plan. This has a why. The head of the professional road committee is still unable to answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u186	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u187	I don't think it's okay, Mr. President. These conversations here from a drunk serve no purpose in solving this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u188	This is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u189	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u190	V.E.G. President. For a long time, bad may get worse. I was becoming a little optimistic when we took a lunch break that might break something up. This feeling, however, has been felt several times when the call has been made for a hold-up. Sadly, though, each time we come back together, the situation runs into an even worse knot. It is true that sitting in here and trying to work is unbearable. So, most kindly, I suggest it as much as possible. Mr President that we're now cutting up a meeting, taking a break, everybody's gonna have a few days just to calm down, so we're gonna come back here next weekend and try to take a bit of civil talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u191	Mr. President. It was like this morning after that. The members of the members of the members of the Board of Congress gave a talk in which they made peace with the day, and I was optimistic about the fact that something was happening, but at that point the representatives of a professional committee who have not spoken of this controversial change. The president has said that he wants to make peace, but he has not been successful. But President has the agenda. He can say, "Here and no further, we're spending our time talking together, the head of the council, looking for solutions. Let us take the special discussion of education and continue on Tuesday after we have used the time to talk. That can be done by a president, and I hope he wields his power firmly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u192	A respectable president. It's been a long time since I had the last feeling of a blue-eyed fool. That's how I feel now. In our house was sent a note from the chairman of the members of the board that they now planned to try to find a solution. Following that discussion, the meeting was invited to the job committee. And in my craziness, I thought that it would be a serious conversation about the subject under quieter circumstances rather than shouting and calling it a public speaker at the Senate Hall. It turns out with presidents, finesses, and also what has happened to the head of the pro board that it never existed. He's already decided what to do, and he's already told a president how to do it. We were being treated as fools today. It's just that way. I don't like it, it's really bad, and that's why we're in people here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u193	V.E.G. President. I'll tell you, I don't have anything to go to the conference board. President to set. I realize that it is not easy for a president to face the challenge of changing the Council's work programme. However, I have experienced this in my previous session, in my first terms, we were sitting here for some of the EU, Icesave, and other cases from the government under the premise that the work programme was changed. I knew there were no dates to when a man was supposed to quit. However, at that time, the president recognized that it would be disastrous not to have an expiration date. We often discussed here that men would try to put down such dates as soon as possible. I believe that the President will do his utmost to distinguish us as the wind unfolds to see what summer will look like. There is no reason for this at this point to have extreme words about the president of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u194	A respectable president. That's right. paritaprevir Brá Consley's wife's Konráðsdóttir may like this situation when the council is dealing with such issues as the European Union and Icesave may show that the greater percentage is mistaken in this matter. This case is unnecessary. There's no rush. [[Up front.]] I'm sure you'll be waiting for Project Control to finish her work and stay there while the urgent issues of hostilities and more and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u195	Was the EU not urgent?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u196	The EU and Icesave are not comparable to wasting weeks on foot. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. And also to stress how the President's conference board is on this case and how insignificant this meeting was to be tomorrow, I realize that it's no longer supposed to be, just third and fourth, here are just two leading men. The job committee, who were likely to address this matter and spend their precious part of the talk in discussing the subject before the meeting would be held. [[The president calls.]] This emphasizes that there is no serious truth in the discussion. A professional health committee. This underscores the terrible meeting board of a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u197	Mr. President. Those who take control of this room can have everyone dupes - but not me. There was an odd scenario at the conference room this morning. Then came the heads of Congress groups of independence and candidates, stressing reconciliation, and deemed them acceptable. This was followed by what happened. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has spoken in a similar way to me about how this situation might develop. Then came the freckled club in this hall, leaning on those who spoke this way, saying that they should wait for the meeting to be held, and asked men to wait patiently for some relief to be here. In time, they wonder where there is power in this room. It's been discovered that it's not here behind me, and it's not right here. Councilmen. This council is being run by a two-man freckle union. So, then, have we not come to the conclusion that the council is out of control?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u198	A respectable president. There's a very profound disagreement here, not just on the case, but on the case. When two argues, and it is hard, it is often good for a person to try to make peace. We have only a good example of a state - of - state relationship, his grip on the matter, and his efforts to be an intermediary. A marriage counselor is another example that has been mentioned here. At times, the principal calls for those who argue. V.E.G. President is a man of reconciliation. I respect the President and I understand his difficult situation, but I think we should have an act of reconciliation and to the highest degree. The president should be that mediator. I call for it to be done as a school principal calls a debater to meet with him or a marriage counselor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u199	A respectable president. I feel the same way as the senator who spoke before me. There have been times when a person has suffered only to the stomach of this room or has been concerned about the situation but rarely now, and he looks to me for poetic lines by Valgeir Guðjónsson. By permission of the President: Who can heal a crushed heart, Who can glue a broken soul together, Who can support the proud wounded, Who can heal a crushed heart? I get the feeling that at least in the senator here the heart is crushing. I think it's clear that the work and responsibility of the Generals is such that we can't allow ourselves to sit here with a crushed heart. It must be our responsibility to find a way out. There is no mother on the way to help us, so I encourage us to regain joy in our hearts again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u200	Now the president almost wants to become unconventional and say, "Hear, hear."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u201	A respectable president. The political situation in Iceland is very serious, unprecedented battle in the labour market, and it's all stuck in the council, and as long as Illugi Gunnarsson, Minister of Education and Culture, all over the country, in a quest against the higher schools in the country with threats of unity by limited consultation. Yesterday's legal opinion was Andri Árnason the unity of the Industrial School in Hafnarfjörður and the Technologies School, where he concluded that there is an unsurpassed fermentation. It seems that the minister is particularly at war in his group with one case after another, and it is as certain that this discussion will be marked by more issues than the one involved in this discussion, i.e. A discussion of the medium - controlled decrease of high school with a power bid. In 2008, the spirit that crossed the waters of a new high school law was to ensure flexibility and choice in high school, the independence of schools, including the length of education and the variety of educational opportunities. This policy has now been disfellowshipped, despite what is stated in the commentary and the catechism of the case at a time in which Illugi Gunnarsson, the minister of the seminary, announces a one - sided decrease in high school, although for many years students have been able to complete a three - year study test. Interestingly, an independent person in the seat of a minister of education is so strongly opposed by choice and variety. This would have been considered to be a common theme, since the main theme has long been prevalent in the camp of the Independence Party. As for this discussion, so much is true in the school policy of the minister that the discussion is almost invisible in public. You can't see it in the media, and you can't see it at the General. One major decision is made after another without consulting with students, teachers, or local rulers. Even reports have been made that the Minister is in line in the budget bill's case in support of such as budgets are a special policy in education. It is hard to believe that there is no wide - wide discussion of these matters at both the World Council and not the same in the community. There will be no pleasure in that for all of us. I didn't think there was a reason for me to be quoting the former minister of education of the Independence Party, Björn Bjarnason, but I do it here, where he says on his website last day on these issues all: ▪ These are big political decisions about large official workplaces. They do not work out without consultation and cooperation. The bus ticket around the Fish Room and its transport should serve as stewards and a warning examples for us. My questions for this occasion are some, first of all: What is the key to maintaining present flexibility in high school for study periods? What's the minister's argument against that? How will the student's input of the student's test change with the shortening? Is that for analysis? Second, how does a minister feel that this one - sided decision will prevent any reduction in high school selection? Third, what arguments does a minister deny the special desire of the University of Reykjavík to continue four years of study and to attend 9th - grade students? Fourth, what is the approach of teachers and school society to the strategy of ministers in these and other people who are now in turmoil in many parts of the country? Fifth: What effect will the shortcut have on the state of high school in the region, and what parallel is there between the shortcut and the cohesive plans of the government of the country with regard to high school? In August 2014, Yngvi Pétursson, head of the University of High School in Reykjavík, said: We want the system open and flexible, that not all schools are cast into the same mold. A respectable president. Why is it the highest? In this regard, does a minister disagree with the head of the University of Education in Reykjavík? Why does he want the highest. Education and Culture Ministers have a high school system in Iceland closed and inflexible and that all schools in Iceland are thrown into the same mold?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u202	A respectable president. First, I want to respond to those words. A senator, who I would like to thank for the matter or for this discussion, that in the opinion of Attorney Andri Árnason of the Year, it was the result of some kind of criminal violation because of the unity of the Technical School and the Middle School in Hafnarfjörður. There is no such thing in that opinion. It is only pointed out that the coming of the assembly is required by means of financial contributions or financial contributions in order to accomplish the matter. It is known, and of course it will be carried out according to this arrangement. I challenge it. In her second speech, a senator explains exactly the words she had dropped here and cites them to the legal opinion, not the headlines in the news. A respectable president. About the first question. A senator always asks what is meant by his present flexibility. The current flexibility or, rather, the present system that is in the high schools, seems to contribute to the high elimination of students from school and the high rate of rotor between courses and schools. About 40% of students have not reached formal school endings six years after they were included in high school. This program of education and status puts Iceland to the bottom of a global comparison when considering the high school systems of other countries. That's the system that's being discussed. We also know that there is a serious problem with our study of books and the study of other subjects. Too few students go to school. This trend, along with the fact that we are the only nation in OECD that takes 14 years to prepare students from their primary school beginning and until they arrive at the university while all other nations do so in 13 years or 12, it has made our students older when they complete school and reflect among other things, as well as, of course, the deletion or elimination, in that the average age of students who complete their BA and BS degrees in Iceland is 30.6 years. There's no nation in OECD that's getting close to us in this. This is just a waste of time, badly spent in the lives of students, and it is no wonder that the BHM, which is just the case in the struggles about buying and buying, stressed it in his culture policy that a study period for a student's test will be reduced. And that's what's being done here, a respectable president. As far as the flexibility is concerned, it is appropriate to note that the actual working time of students with teachers in the old system is 145 days, but with changes in collective contracts recently changed, the length of school hours has passed from 175 days, of which 30 days is intended for tests, up to 180. What is more, in the last collective agreements it was negotiated to eliminate the separation between tests and classes. This makes works, a respectable president, greatly increasing the flexibility in the system. The schools will also find more space to develop courses of learning and to adjust the way to study. This is of importance regarding flexibility. Similarly, the (f) unit system called a much better student friend-friendly system than the old system, it has been recorded, and with exactly the change in collective agreements, we put together the teacher's work hours and the students' hours of work, which make an even greater flexibility in this system. And I believe that flexibility in a new system that is being designed will be no less than the flexibility in the system now, for all students are not being meant to be completed at the same time, as is sometimes heard during the discussion. A respectable president. We should not forget that we already have experience in three years of study. Is it really true that, for example, the Grinch School is like the Women's School, though both are three years old, that it's just exactly the same thing? In recent years, those who claim to have not observed education have not been very closely observed in Iceland. As for the multiplicity, it can be noted that about 4,925 initiatives in the system are entered into the Ministry database. A large college teaches about 250 different stages. Of course, there's a lot of flexibility in the system and it won't go because of that. As to the question of high school in Reykjavík, high school for years has taken students from the ninth grade. You can't have it so that there will be some special school rules, although a good school is in Reykjavík. It also calls for a completely different coverage and a completely different approach that turns to a division between rural and state, the question that a member of Congress encountered. As for the schools in the country, I told the council yesterday that the institutions were not being united. We're talking about integration and cooperation to respond to a reduction in the number of rivers. It is true that a three - year system is being removed, resulting in reduced and improved employment conditions also leads to reduced levels. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. My goal is to make better use of the services, the expertise, and other knowledge in the institutions of the country so that better and more effective studies can be offered to students in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u203	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. It's not going to miss the top. Ministers that he is authorized to decide first what to do and then to discuss matters afterwards when a decision is made, but it is sad to observe that it is the highest. A minister is driving the academic case here in a bullshit dispute, a lawsuit that doesn't have to be in a dispute, and most of it has not been. There's no educational policy, except high school. Ministers and messages received into the council through funding, even by committee opinion from a greater portion of the legal committee or by a referendum to a financial group that gave 111 suggestions that have not been discussed at the council in one way or another. We have not received any answers as to how short - term study will take on students. What articles fall down, it's sports, and art and projects? What effect does this have on high school in the country where there is a serious problem? We know there are ideas of harmony. How Would You Answer? Extensions are in a state of confusion. The significance of this shortening has not been determined. There are no formal suggestions or discussions about it. What I really want to do, though, is a recent study published in Viist that quoted yesterday, in which Sigrún Harðardóttir, lecturers at the University of Iceland's Social Advisory, calls attention to the fact that the school drop is mainly among high school students. Most of it is a natural program for study with all the others. This, for example, is one of the things to talk about and to look at instead of always bringing the same numbers from the mistakes of OECD reports. Is this the case like that particular woman, Sigrún Harðardóttir, says, by permission of president: ▪ As the situation is today, it is not merely a delinquency process; rather, it is said that schools are taking a certain drop on a certain group of students who are relaxed at the end of high school. Then you ask: Is this the method to use to reduce deletion, i.e. by excluding the students who fail and put them into some other system? [[The president calls.]] There are things like this we want to talk about here. We also want to talk about the University of Hafnarfjörður when someone points out that this is a legal procedure because the request for a warrant later enters the council once the school has already begun its operation. [[The president calls.]] I wish that the special discussion that has been offered or that the subject would soon be on the program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u204	A respectable president. I'd like to remind all of us of old truths that are never too often meant to be, and it is that the systems we build to solve a joint project should serve the needs of the people, the varied needs of people in a diverse community. Systems that do not do it are wicked, defective, and often very harmful. This is especially true of the school system that is designed to help young people pursue education. Everyone knows that the quality and motivation of each individual can have a great deal of control over his many opportunities in life. How do we make sure that our systems will be in the best cooperation with the interests and needs of those to serve? Yes, the highest. The president, with much agreement with the best known and most important interests. There is no better way to do that. In fact, I think that everyone who has official authority on the public side should have a motto on what the North American Community and the Apostle Association puts on, and not for good reason, hung up on a wall in their offices: nothing about us without us! I'm gonna stop this right here because I think it's reason to believe I'm going to the highest. A minister of education has failed to have adequate consultation with those most important of all to listen to the educational system. Studies show that U.S. high school evaporation is all too much and especially in a certain group of young people, such as those with immigrant children and students with some type of disorder. In this context I would like to encourage the minister to read an interview with Sigrún Harðardóttir. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson came in earlier, but she's a lecturer at the University of Iceland. Last night, the newspaper featured an interview with her whose headline has been the worst one of them having little chance to do so. I'm the highest. Minister to read this interview. I hope that a minister is deeply concerned with the serious differences to study there and will respond quickly with suggestions to correct and, of course, have much cooperation with those to whom he knows best. That's key.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u205	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's daughter for bringing this up. Not long ago, the one listed here was studying high school. What I consider to be the greatest benefit of short - term studies to study in a student's study is that students are going to be more objective and need to be more organized in their studies. As a result, a new study course will prevent a part of the start of high school from going to a mere review instead of continuing to study and teach. This results in the education of students in Iceland closer to the education available in countries around us, and they are traveling with their peers there. Young people's ambitions are high, and in some schools, they may be able to complete certain courses sooner than then, in three or even two years. Students want to be on a pair with their peers in countries around us. Geographically, there are other conditions in Iceland. By offering a good spread and telecommunication, as well as by shortening study, students who live in a country on pair's side with those living in the capital area and those who choose to live in rural areas as much as those who live in urban areas. In order to enjoy a high - quality study, 15 to 16 - year - olds should not have to leave home. The danger is that schools want to keep too tight in the exact environment they are working today, but if schools get stuck at once, they become self-stop after not so many years, since society is in constant development. With technology coming forward, new opportunities for study, and new courses for study today, and schools must follow the wave, follow the community, and change that their students live and move in, and not always put us in the thinking of ◯ What are we going to do now? Schools and local community must take the initiative and feel the rhythm of the step to the earth. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we can then ask ourselves, " Where is the coordination and harmony to take place, whether the right way to unite schools, or whether we can further combine our ministry with school? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u206	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent conversation. I'm not personally opposed to any change that may at first appear to be not necessarily desirable. I think Iceland's education system needs some changes. I also feel that it is unclear what changes it is. That is why, in fact, the most important thing to me is that it is close communication with most people and that things are done in the greatest sense of reconciliation. It seems that it did not work out for some reason. Maybe it's some kind of lack of information or a lack of consultation, but I'd really appreciate it if it were. A top-of-the-art Board of Education could do a little more about this. Of course, she's having a lot of time shortage, like most other committees, but I've been missing a more intimate conversation about all of this. Also, because society changes, people's pattern of study changes. Biodiversity changes, interests change, attitudes about teaching change. It is not entirely true what is said at times, to pursue academic goals, or to teach methods that have changed for 2,000 years. It's not like that, they change regularly, and they need to keep changing. What always comes up again, and we're not quite good enough to talk about, but the highest. Ministers have complained about and, according to my opinion, is simply without money. I think we should view education in general as the seed of society. How our seeds develop and develop is something that we have to talk about here and there and certainly have the highest. There is no question about it, either here in the tunnel, in committees, or elsewhere, and it is good, but the key is, whatever we try, that it is financed so that it will work in harmony with our expectations. I believe that there is one of the most important things that we generally forget to talk about here. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u207	Madam President. All I want to do is establish these epileptic reasons and the minister's actions in uniting high school and sadly taking the lead in an elephant's glass shop. This is the result of shortening study to a student's test. I encourage like other council members. Minister to read the interview at Sigrún Harðardóttir, lecturer at the University of Iceland's Social Management Department, where it is deeply involved in the moral questions of this structure. They need help for students with all kinds of difficulties, and they are not meant to be found in the minister's new model. This brings her to the elimination risk of which the minister has been so informed. It's going both ways. How's grade school? How's college? What is the basic school supposed to do? Even now it is said that students do not get well prepared for high school. It is said that students do not get well prepared for college. Does the Minister think the shortcut has something to do with it? That's not my opinion, Mr. Honorable President. Then, in the latter minute, I'd like to discuss a subject that has been very burning upon us members of the Northeast District and many others who have discussed it recently, i.e. The lack of consultation with the rural areas and the relevant party due to the proposed cohesion. Last night, a conclusion came from the Mountain Farm community where it is proposed that the Grinch High School, the Secretary of Minister, has specifically identified it, has proved its value and growth, has a wide range of educational opportunities and good cooperation with institutions and businesses in the region, and has enabled people of all ages to complete their studies. What the minister proposes as a basis for his decision is not relevant in the case of High School of the Grinch. ▪ Minister support is based on the need to respond to contractions due to reduced numbers of students and the school becoming self-sustained for support and management. Neither applies to TTR, for school attendance has increased year after year and school business has always been within the budget. A respectable president. A minister says that it does not stand to unite, it does not have to worry, but his staff proclaims one social security number and one budget. [[The president calls.]] That means unity, a respectable president. I've requested an open meeting on these matters with a minister of the General and Education Committee, and I also request that the headmasters of the school attend that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u208	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir's Savvardístóttir for asking for this discussion here. It's important to talk about education. The education of our young people is just one of the most important things at the council is discussing because a good education is a key to success. Information is a key to success. Therefore, it is important that we keep close to this party and with ambition, talk it out of ambition, talk it out of a sense of humor, listen to one another a little bit. So I'm surprised that when the minister here speaks of what is being referred to as integration and cooperation, it is deliberately misunderstood, using other words for some peculiar purpose, talking about cramping tactics, etc. There's no need to be greasing in this discussion. Let's just calm down and discuss the matter as it happens. The minister suggests that the study in high school will be more specific, that it will be more reserved, that the system continues to be flexible, that it can be completed in a shorter period of time, but it can also be completed in just a little longer. It has also been proclaimed that funding will not be cut down but will be used to the same extent that it is being done today. It has been claimed here that there is a right to reduce the student's choice. Schools are designed to figure out what will be offered in addition to the basics that, of course, need to be available at all times. I trust every step of the school to feed it. We have many men and women, good people who are prepared to figure this out. They've done well in the schools that have already chosen to have a shortcut. On April 28 of the International and Education Committee, we received information on the integration of the high school in Hafnarfjörður and Technologies School. Since the school in Hafnarfjörður is not closing, he will continue to be employed, so it is quite clear that the opinion quoted here is quoted in the speech of both. Senator, I think it was Guðbjartur Hannesson, not that it should close the school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u209	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Because we have not been given much education to discuss, Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's zeal for starting this discussion. We've heard of plans in the media. Our secondary education system has advantages, and the flexibility is one of the main factors. Now it seems to me that the policy is to reduce flexibility, no matter what. A minister calls new emphasis, first by limiting the number of people attending book studies and making it harder for those 25 years of age to attend such homework. This makes it harder for students to pursue education, and this will automatically reduce the level of education and reduce their jobs, especially in the country. Then, the 2008 high school law's policies on increasing school independence and their ability to meet the need for education in the areas where they work, both as well as in the course of study. This will make the school supply less poor, especially in smaller schools in the country and reduce the number of jobs there. Reports spread that the number of high schools is reduced, and this is necessary because students have reduced their numbers. Of course, the number of students reduces when governments set mass limits and refuse to offer a proper study, and then we are in a circle. It seems to me that there is a complete lack of ambition in education, and it seems that the ideology of the government's economic group is being controlled by a vision of the future. This will not benefit the nation. Not only is ambitious education lacking but there is a lack of ambitious regionalism. In fact, these factors remain, since education is a key element of better housing conditions. I'm concerned that if changes in high school levels make it easier for you to access and to reduce flexibility and diversity because it's poor educational policy and poor regional policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u210	A respectable president. A few years back, and if there's anything that this experience taught me, it's necessary to consult and there'll never be enough revised in education. There must be consultations with professionals, there must be consultations with the people on the floor, staff, managers, teachers, students and parents, and when we are talking about the high school system, there must, of course, be a comprehensive consultation with local and international government. The General has a role in education policies, and the General is responsible for monitoring the Commission. Left behind in the school system changes, a wolf's voice grows over these changes and makes matters worse. School system is a system. It's a complicated system. There's a lot of money at stake, and this part of the school system works out pretty well in Excel. But we need to be careful that the school system is primarily about individuals, the students served by the school system. Students can't go back to school, they can't live their school years again if something in the system went wrong while they were at school. If something doesn't work in the school system, the students who are in the school system will lose their chances. Therefore, we need to make sure that the system takes into account the individuals who are there today, not those who will ever be there in the future. Dr. Ragnar Þorsteinsson, an instructor in Reykjavík, often reports that being lucky with school or lucky with a teacher is a rarely spoken of being lucky with, for example, a surgeon or a pilot. It is not available to rely on luck when it comes to changing school systems. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, such a change must not be controlled; it must be drowned in consultation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u211	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's daughter, Svavarsdóttir, and other members of the council who have participated. I am delighted with the results we are now achieving in shortening mid-school classes to a student's test. It is long time, for for over many years, the time of a part of the student has gone to repeat the course of a school course. I don't see any evidence that the change that is taking place will diminish the flexibility of both study and study. On the contrary, it provides an opportunity to increase individual contact and the opportunity for students to drive their speed and opportunity to offer Bible guidance for all. Still, it is clear that we are making a breakthrough. The number of high school students is reduced, both due to a decrease in study periods and the number of high school students. Making changes is an opportunity, and it is a responsibility for us to make use of them to think outside the box and to strengthen the school program for students, especially students in the country. There are a wide variety of ways in which most people need to be activated. The Ministry responsible for the seminary has to activate the local school community and the community as a whole. School unity is not a general solution to the project. One way that we have to make better use of it in order to improve individuality and flexibility is a better use of the possibility of suspension. We can't afford anything else in a rural country. I've been exposed to a high-level suspension program that is fully equal or beyond the best study environment known elsewhere, but I've also met a slow study, both distribution and local. We need to work hard in this regard and know where we are going. There are many opportunities, such as the mother - to - be - with immigrants, but it is also time to take up the discussion of more cooperation between elementary school and high school, such as the compatibility of supporting services and more compatible teachers on the school levels. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u212	President. I'm very into changing the school system. It's about time. I'd like to quote the words of the former Ministry of Education on what's going on right now and consider the top reason for the members of the greater section and members of the General and Education Committee to listen carefully. With the permission of a president, I'm going to read from an island article with a reference to the former Ministry of Education: ▪ Schools and the proposed classes of high school are big political decisions for a large public workplace and do not go up without consultation and cooperation. This should serve as a warning example for stewards and consultants when living around the Fish Room. It writes Björn Bjarnason, former minister of education, to his website. Björn says that it is surprising how little public talk there has been regarding changes in high school, that is, his short name. ▪ It certainly was considered when I was a minister of education 20 years ago. At first glance, I thought it was a good price, but then I turned my mind around because I thought that flexibility and freedom within high school were more important goals. Björn also says that there are reports that the future of a government school is being decided, without anyone involved. Thus, the teachers and students do not come to decision-making, nor do local or rural governments, as shown in discussions about high school at Hafnarfjörður or community school in the north. That's not a good thing to do. Then, of course, you can look to the experience. paritaprevir ÓttarrProppé pointed out that it is important to learn from the combined schools in this city. That's why I want to make the most of it. A minister of education to listen to this fine counsel and to have this process with a much wider consultation than it already is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u213	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of Answers and Others who have participated here. This is a very short time to discuss such an important subject. In the words of a minister, he said that he was concerned about disfellowshipping and that far too few were underreaching. We have heard of concern during magazine interviews and studies with students who are weak. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is the answer, then, to increase the singleness of the schools? I didn't see much discussion at the top. A minister on the content of the study and the concern that it would be to reduce the content or limit the selection, and I would like to receive the answer to the question: Why should the University of Reykjavík not be allowed to maintain its unique position? Why would the Minister forbid that? I've received no answer but a general word that it doesn't work. That's a little old-fashioned to me. I'd also like to mention the high school, elementary school, high school, and college, the study Gerður G. Óskarsdóttir's daughter on them, and the importance of having a conversation with both the schools on either side of the school stage, i.e. At high school and in that case, the rural communities and the university. All such fundamental changes affect the adjacent school level. What's the big vision? Minister of that subject? I won't be aware that this is in harmony with that. V.E.G. A minister asked if I could prove a statement about illegal action in the legal opinion of the United States of Hafnarfjörður, but I would like to ask the highest degree. However, a minister is convinced that these changes have improved, i.e. one - sided, short school in high school by decree? According to law data from the 2008 high school bill, the importance of study to study the student's test was not affected by the bill og the Þorgerður daughter of Katrín Gunnar was specifically spoken of as not changing schools, which is exactly what the current Supreme Court would do. Minister's doing it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u214	A respectable president. This has been called after the need for informed discussion and consultation. I call attention to the fact that last year, particularly June 17, I published a white book that reported plans for education changes and supported them. What's more, I traveled all over the country, and I held the only 34How35 open meetings for the public on these matters. On a meeting, 1,400,1500 people came to discuss academic matters. The more important, based on the White Paper Action Programme, formed groups of projectors and directors with extensive experience and education in schools and schools in general and those groups have had extensive consultations and partnerships with stakeholders in society, the Teacher Union, the Labour Association, Home and School, Iceland's Public Association, Iceland's Championship, etc. It's been held at the National Congress of Meetings. There's been a special network and information website opened, etc. I've been trying to put these issues on schedule. That has taken place ever since I took office for what my mind was for, for example, during study periods. In the strike at high school teachers and collective agreements then made it clear to me that the basis for increasing the pay of a high school teacher was a system modification that focused on what is being done here. It's been here all along. A respectable president. With the trip I made through the country, with the publications of the White Books, with the work groups of projects that include locks, trades, and study hours, and the meetings that have been conducted there, I'm going to allow myself to insist on it, a more dignified president, despite the clever speech and penalties that have fallen here to find that there is a search for as much agreement as really being true of these matters. Wait a minute. A senator would mention what should have been more important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u215	V.E.G. President. Not to be secretive, therefore, is the fact that I have a real problem with being given a talk at that time when there is no time for what the issue will be. I find this so disrespectful to me as a member of Congress that I don't really have a word, chief. Mr President, I need to make this work. I don't know what the circumstances I'm talking about at the council, and I hope they will. The head of a professional car board is laughing here at some joke on the Internet but not in my words, perhaps thinking of all the lessons that have been heard here from the management board about how we should behave. So, we're here to make a pact proposal of the highest order. Environment Minister for setting Aggressive activation in a frame-of-work programme and possible adjustment of the more part of the employment network to increase these costs by four as well as the modification proposal to reduce them by one-on-one. I don't know if it's the highest. Presidents feel that the senators are just coming to the chair to spend their time or at the highest level. The president believes that we usually want to talk in some overall context. I think it's the highest. The president has no respect for members of Congress, and he believes that they will come in a speech chair to bullshit something. I'm very sorry. I'll keep that in mind and not forget it soon. At the end of my case, I will request an explanation from the highest level. This is how a president treats me as a member of the council here. We're dealing with an action form based on the laws on a frame plan. We are quite a few people in this hall who have been talking day after day about the President's conference board to protest that the adjustment of the proposal to Congress is on schedule because we believe it is against the law. That is exactly what it is possible to resolve at some meeting that will be held after I give my speech. We don't think it's legal. We have doubts about this by the Department of Employment, and we have often quoted the Department of Environment and Resources' memo that this is not in accordance with a legal framework. As a result, we have requested that the matter be canceled. Well, we haven't been there yet, so I guess I'm gonna have to act here like it's the real thing. It's an amazing situation I'm put in and completely annoying. We are discussing this when society is on fire in strikes. V.E.G. The prime minister has come here and convinced us that the overexploitation of this matter has something to do with the debates. The labour market members have noted that this case has never been set up in discussions about collective agreements. A statesman has pointed out that a deep - seated problem has to do with the struggle, that is not just a matter of remuneration, and we all know that. People have been completely caught up in the head by the increase in wrongs when it comes to property and how we, the people of Iceland, cannot fully enjoy the resources of our resources in the normal context of our ownership of them. I would've wanted to be here to talk to the highest. Prime Minister on the way the council is going to arrive - there's so much noise in here, Mr. President, that you can hardly concentrate. I also have a problem with this meeting manager so much that I don't want to give this speech. [[Up front.]] All right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u216	The president prays that the members of the hall give a speaker an opportunity to give his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u217	This is where I would've wanted to be talking to the highest. Prime Minister of what he sees and what we see as a solution to this dispute. I believe now the General should take advantage of the opportunity and unite to change the constitution and establish the Constitution of the Member States of the resources and that if any contracts are made for their use, the total price will be paid. There's something we could do here now. What we could do, too, would increase the country's approach to making a decision by setting an arrangement for national law in a constitution. If the Allied saw what a fine thing it was, we'd be sending out a message, creating an environment that would give the opportunity to negotiate. I repeat my request that we receive the highest report. Prime Minister on the labour market situation. We have to talk about these things. We also need to talk about a growing division when it comes to property, for it undermines our society, fosters division, and promotes distrust. This, unfortunately, has been a worldwide trend, a result of uncontrolled liberalism, and this undermines democracy in our continents as well as in others, these extreme forces are growing because of the dissatisfaction of the public that politicians have not cared for the interests of the common people. Now I've only talked about the strikes, the ones I would've wanted to discuss here instead of this misery change proposal. A representative of our group members, huh? paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, returns a minority party, and it explains the solidarity of the Continent. We support the frame process. I'm not the activationist. I'd be willing not to activate anything for the next 25 years, but I've also been working on the legislation and the approved interpretation smells in the spirit of cross-laws. I think it's a great idea that we have rules of play that we agree on and that people come in contact with situations that involve the continuum transfunctioner. This has been the issue for decades in Iceland. As an opponent for now, however, I am ready to stand by this process. It is painful to feel that this peace of mind is not at all, for it is not willing to follow the rules. There are a number of reviews on this matter, and there are, of course, a lot of people who are happy with the adjustment form that wants to see everything started to activate, wants the old situation when we spit in and heat the economy thoroughly for short-term gain, then making contracts about ignominious electrical prices to companies that don't pay taxes in Iceland, but they have accountingrix so that normal taxes do not come from their activities here. This adjustment is called a return to that time because there is no special demand for this electricity. There's no one waiting in line to get it. We have every opportunity to provide companies that we consider to be desirable for the Icelandic economy and the European public with the required electricity. It's no problem if it's within reasonable limits. I'm like everybody's supposed to be a clear agent for the UN at the Council. We were at a national meeting in March. and there we agreed on environmental policies. It was updated and reviewed, and it emphasizes that a structured program will not be destroyed. The organization greatly contributed to its fulfillment in its time, but we now fear its end. It emphasizes that the Council does not destroy almost two decades of work. It also declares a willingness to set up a national park in the middle of the country, which is directly involved in this change. I'm going to quote that conclusion, chief. President. It says: The United States wants the next protection and sustainable use of natural areas to prevent further interference from the Mediterranean. The National Conference offers support for the proposals of a nature protection organization to set up a national park in the central highlands. National park guarantees the preservation of the great natural value of the central highlands and ensures that a major natural source will become a sustainable source of employment, profit, and experience for everyone. Then you will find a list of how this would be done and how it would be handled. I think, for example, that a mob operation that is to be pushed through the council, through one discussion without a professional assessment, is simply threatening this will and plan to establish a national park in the middle of the country. It is important that we keep in mind that environmental, climate, and nature protection are issues requiring long - term thought. The Middle East is a unique natural area in Europe, with Iceland having a unique area of nature. It is so shortsighted for temporary interests to destroy the whole area of the highlands. Although it is complicated in this discussion because it is another strand technically, because we are protesting that the rules of the game are being ruined, there are also benefits that are in opposition to our long - term interests. There is a growing number of people who do not want the central highlands destroyed. I think it should be taken seriously. Why do you have to plug this activation in there at this point? Can't people just breathe in their abdomen and wait for a conclusion? Is there any awareness that there is an ever - increasing understanding of the importance of having unmoved nature, so it is better to hurry before any green errors begin to destroy plans for further activations? The sector that earns the most currency income is not satisfied with the adjustment of the more part of the employment committee. I'm going to quote it directly because it's quite decisive. A review of the Group of Tourists says, with the permission of the President: ▪ The Union considers it highly reprehensible, expressing its full objection to the benefits previously approved, with a synonym, to a waiting party according to law No. 48/2011, of the energy efficiency programme, is presented in the existing Parliamentary arrangement of a professional employment committee. Is it in the opinion of the organization that this approach will bring down to the credibility of the employment committee and to the process based on a Framework Programme? Sadly, this proposal does not merely dishonor the credibility of the employment committee and the majority of it. Such proposals, in general, dishonor political credibility. Such suggestions undermine the confidence that we are working on the public interest. Travellers don't like this. Since then, I've been giving a talk on the conference board, defending my sisters'honor. paritaprevir Oddný's Harðardóttir Daughter, who was making a concierge resolution on a frame plan, along with a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir was in the government. It's important to think: Here is the political power to make decisions on how to use it. During the last term, the political power made decisions based on a legal process of envelopes that had to be taken into account, decisions to disseminate a waiting class, which would actually be a group of researchers. Rather than making political decisions for the future, it was only said: " Here we are to give the benefit of the doubt to nature. ' We're gonna put this in a group for further investigation. That was not a final decision. There's a huge difference between us, and I pray. Councilmen to keep that in mind. The political power did not allow it during the last term to make decisions on the use or protection of the professional judgment. Rather, it was made decisions for further investigation because of the number of cases involved. Also, based on economic views, I don't understand why senators want to return to the market. I thought that we wanted it to be beyond energy demand so that we could negotiate as high as possible so that we could get as much money as possible from our energy resources. It doesn't take much knowledge in economics or just general sense to understand that it doesn't make the economy better in any way to collect energy on stocks, but it's not new to me that I don't understand the most part of this council. I've finished my case, chief. President. I say again how disagree I am about being put in this situation. I'm sorry to be the highest. Our members of Congress are ignored by the president's request that we know the relationship we are speaking. I'm going to finish my case by repeating my wish to the highest. The prime minister will report to the council and discuss the more serious situation in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u218	Mr. President. I'm mostly here to show off. A senator agrees with her, and he agrees with her. It is not acceptable. A senator is required to give his speech under these circumstances. I'll make it clear that the President stands this way to continue this meeting. That's very unwise. Secondly, I come here to express my extreme shame of behavior. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, in the council hall, was given a speech by the senator. I must say exactly as I am, it is shameful for me to stand at a job like that. A senator's speech was conducted, and there are many witnesses in the hall. [[Up front.]] Third, I'd like to hear a little opinion. A senator, though she has a little time, but I've been arguing that this case is actually much bigger than that, although in the transition because in the sense of the environment it would be so much worse than anyone could argue because of the U-turn it would be in all approach in this field if a frame plan was destroyed and we tore 10, 20, 30 years back in time in these topics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u219	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree that it was indeed U-indulgent and what's serious about the rules of play that were agreed after decades of work with all paid votes when we set a frame plan, that's where we combined on game rules. Now we are going back on course to create a war for each of the initiatives. Worse yet, it is not merely returning to it. Rather, it is under the pretext that this is in harmony with the rules of play. That is, in a way, even more unscrupulous. I agree with what. A senator making it hard for me if this suggestion, which we have, in fact, decided we don't go through, went through it, is putting us in a worse place than we were before the law was approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u220	Mr. President. Yes, I agree with that, and no wonder that those of us who want to protect our country's natural world are taking such measures seriously. First, the court treatments are thwarted, and the compromise is not acceptable, nor is it done by any general. Second, I find at least a deep and heartfelt objection to the contents of the proposal, its contents, I object to the addition of these qualities to a novelty party. And third, I think of this as part of a much bigger war. Let us not forget that we are on this same winter, looking ahead to Landsnet's plan to have a high-voltage line across an explosion field that would most likely pull the road along with a built - up road. Because there are many other areas of nature in nature, there is reason to build wood and voices, she must own, Mother Nature, at the General Assembly, and I am grateful to all the companions who want to assist her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u221	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his meditation rather than the questions. We often thought that this was the time, that we had framed laws, and now we might begin to associate with these matters a little like normal people, that would have been a turning point. No, no, it was a natural misunderstanding, as we see now. But what's positive is that the defence voices have increased greatly at the General Assembly, and an increased level of consciousness in the community makes inventors think that it's not as easy as they planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u222	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, she was good, and I appreciate her dissatisfaction to have to speak in these circumstances that may not be acceptable. This debate, as it were, has not been particularly a factor for the council, which is very sad that we experienced a massive collapse in our time and that we are living in a civilised society today. We can only see that in the media about the senators and their private interests and so forth. It's in a piece of shit right now. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson said we should try to avoid. One of the things I find so important in this matter is to listen to the voices of the people living in the affected areas. I've mentioned this in a talk before. What I'm worried about and what I'm asking. A senator is about whether she's concerned with me that it will be a war if this is decided as farmers have indicated in magazine interviews and online interviews. The war just started when the word "Velmian reactivation " became a novelty class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u223	V.E.G. President. I think that in the majority of cases, groups will be very disagreeable with that. When making decisions this way, war gloves are being thrown in. It has been observed that a large number of people are considering this through the General Assembly. It's something special that when we've been here putting laws on financial companies and all sorts of factors that have to do with the big financial interests of certain people, such threats are taken very seriously here, as we should be careful that we go to the Constitution and the law in our actions. But when it comes to the public living somewhere, fearing their home, the greater part of it does not seem to be a reason to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u224	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When these proposals were submitted earlier in the winter, the natural process became completely out of the question, so it became clear what was going to happen. I wondered what makes it that it's being pushed on to put this in. I was there when Buddok activation was started. There I listened to a talk at the highest. Secretary of finance, and I wondered if there's any connection between here and what he said there. He said, in a joyful mood, that activation was started: we're just starting, we're going to keep activated. I wondered, " Is it a matter of yielding to the temptations of power and listening to the special interests of the land? ' You begin to wonder in a country that produces 18 thousand giga times of electricity. What's the hurry? What's going on? Why is this not allowed to take their normal course?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u225	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. I'm convinced that energy sales can be very efficient in Iceland, and we need to be alert to sell energy when it suits us and when it suits the Icelandic economy. I think we're looking at very narrow interests here. If people really want to activate them, mindpower is about the best thing we could do at this point and that we do by supporting the good-looking system, putting money into research, putting money into creative articles, it costs a lot less, it gives a much more and makes Iceland a more attractive place to live on, and reducing people to flee the country now, which is a concern when getting up into society, that people are going away because they don't believe in a vision of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u226	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. Because of the emphasis on the groups that claim to protect nature, a major priority is to the activation areas placed in the last stipulation and adopted by these administration groups in the colony. Then I quote to areas like Firethrower and Black Angelic Area, a Fluctuation necklace, and a Cyslavian region, and Sandfells in Cysavík. Counts 'em out. A senator's view that there are less environmental impacts of the activations and that it is normal to activate there than in the lower part of the wound? Similarly, I would have liked a quick explanation for this in the case of a man. A senator's view of the rock - mass, which makes the environment so vast and extensive. A senator entered his talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u227	V.E.G. President. I'm glad the Senator decides to have a word with me in a pit, but he doesn't call me here where I stand. Regarding the last frame plan, I said in my case that I thought it would be reasonable for Icelanders to say, "Now we're not going to activate for the next 25 years. " This energy does not leave us, we have a lot of energy, but I also decided, in view of the commitment of the Union, to stand by a frame plan. I have my opinion on all of these areas, but what was unique in the areas that were moved to a waiting party was that there were no comments that were new about these areas, there were comments already being examined, I should not have any problem trying to protect all of this, but I have decided, as I said, to stand by a frame plan. I'll have to give you the second answer in the next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u228	A respectable president. It will then be understood no different than that the coalition that claims to be a protection for nature feels more suitable in the Black Angel area and in the geologic activation area than in the lower part of Dura. I reiterate the question about The Devil and want to make it clear to her that it is the prime option, which was very high in efficiency, but very little in protection. The activation itself is actually inside a tunnel that is between two people's hands and the electrical line from the activation is going to be in the ground. Then, the task management issues have actually solved now made comments on the box 3. I'd also like to hear a few moments away from what happened. A senator with ideas of sea cables. The group has been a keen category of closer research, and it has even gone into the process of transpiring sea cables to Europe. It would be interesting, then, to hear from him. A senator's reaction to what he thinks would be a major resource for the country, i.e. in the construction of the continuum transfunctioner, to meet the needs there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u229	V.E.G. President. I hear what you're saying. A senator doesn't understand a frame plan. It is not a matter of personal opinion on an individual basis, but of a collective evaluation, offered on a professional basis by a set of rules. As for Snooze, it's in the force zone of Lakehjörður Park, and if we want to protect the central highlands and create a special national park, it's out of the question. With a cable, I am absolutely aware that we should examine its benefits. I think it might be very practical for us to get as high a price as possible through a cable. But I think that too, and that's what I'm worried about is that the pressure on further activations is growing. I'll just let me count that we should look into it and then evaluate our interests there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u230	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Hv. A senator spoke much of the talk on dress language, strike, and even in that context. Granted, these issues involve the use of resources and the activations that give us energy for the use of jobs. Only the equation. Now the balance of income has increased, but surely the balance of property has decreased, but in order for us to control it, we need to ensure an increase in income balance. We agree on that. Hv. The senator discussed the structure and plan that we politicians really want to follow and was worried that we were destroying the rules of the game. Don't we need to strengthen the guidelines around the frame? Is that not what this discussion teaches us?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u231	V.E.G. President. First to the equation, which I believe is a basis for a good society, it grew as a result of the targeted determination of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and the figures being quoted from 2013 when the Union government and the Left Green had been ruling here for four years. However, we must wait for figures for 2014 and then 2015, when changes in the tax system have been made and how it works. With regard to frame plan and procedure, I'll agree with what. Senator. I think that the work of the employment committee now, when these adjustment proposals have been restored, should be done over a number of narratives with comments that pointed out certain weaknesses so that it becomes quite clear what is being done so that we do not face similar situations again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u232	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We don't share anything when we talk about the equation. With regard to the rules of the film, I'm going to quote the EEA's review in this case, saying, by permission of the President: ▪ After the proposal has arrived at the General Assembly, members of the Parliament can make adjustments, just as we can all legal and political recommendations. The more formal requirements would need to be explained as to how the council should be treated. We agree that there is a need to strengthen the rules around the box. The EEA also feels that it is important to review these problems because we can never tell the difference between a minister as part of the legislature authority handling these cases differently from members of the Parliament. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I'd like to ask. A senator: How does it picture these changes in formal requirements?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-22-111.u233	Mr. President. I thank the senator a very good question. I think we should be in this very discussion, not discussing this unprecedented change proposal. I don't think it's important that the General doesn't give up authority in all of these matters. We are a democracy with elected agents who make decisions. But since there was a constant war in this field, I think political power should make the decision that we are not making here to make final decisions on a region contrary to professional judgment. We can say rather, as in our last term: We are not going to make final decisions now on this area. We disagree that this should happen. We'd like to refer it to further investigation or further investigation.
