ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u1	Borist has a letter from the 12th. We're out of Suðvest. "Birgitta Jónsdóttir, "that she can't attend a meeting in the near future. As reported on the General Assembly, then, on Friday, October 16, the preceding 1st, a deputy of Pirata in the district of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, took up residence at the General Assembly. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has already taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcomed to work. There have been letters from Willum Þór Þórsson, 5th. We're out of here. "Oddin Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, 6th. South, and Páll Jóhann the son of Pálsson, the 5th. Let's say that they can't do Congress in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, who served as champions for the Sigurjón Kjærnestedur, 1st, seniorist of the Offense Party in Svevevest. "Björgvin G. Sigurðsson, 1st Reserver of the Southern United States Group list, Hrund Björnsdóttir, 1st strategist of the South. They are all invited to serve again at the General Assembly. We've got a letter from the 10th. That's the north side. "The Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir's daughter, and the 7th. S.H., Ásmundur Friðriksson, that they will not be able to attend next week. Today, therefore, at General 1st, a deputy of the Bears' list takes place in the Northeast. "Preben Pétursson, and 3rd Apostle of the Southern Independence Party, Sandra Dís Hafþórsdóttir. A guard on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. The letter of Preben Jón, the son of Pétursson and Dís Hafþórsdóttir, has already been investigated and agreed, but they have not taken their place before in the Council, so it is to be signed as king to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u2	Preben Pétursson and Sandra Dís, the daughter of Hafþórsdóttir, have signed their word to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u3	By letter, dated October 13th, the president has requested this, according to the 8th law of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with a report on the state-research on the financial management of Iceland's Agriculture University.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u4	There have been two letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for deadlines to give written answers to the application for this request. 125, about the large and energy prices, from Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and for the icicle. 176, on fiasco and fishing fees, from Oddný G. Harðardóttir. A letter has also been received from the Ministry of Health where request is made in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 111, on reimbursement of glasses, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 118, about study and study of deaf children, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u5	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers and environmental and resource ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u6	A respectable president. As it has been reported during the past few weeks, the government has struggled to find out how to decide how to decide whether a stable tax will be decommissioned by a responsortment campaign from the fallen financial companies or whether the tax will fail for years, as expected under the law of those approved here. There have been very conflicting information in this regard. A news report from the Bloomberg news agency this morning tells us that there is a right to refuse proposals for stability from broken homes, which is interesting because on account of the government's special pleasure was described at the time of their arrival in spring, and nothing has been officially explained about the basics of these important decisions. We have repeatedly requested meetings on that matter in the scene of the presidents or in the decommission board. I appreciate it at the highest. Secretary of finance that he has made known that we are expected to be prepared for a meeting on the decommission board today or tomorrow, but I would like to direct that question to the highest level. Whether it is quite clear that all information on the basis of a decision to accept a stable donation rather than to allow the tax to be made public before making such a decision is made. Our fears are, of course, that in the back rooms of the government officials, these matters will be resolved on uncertain grounds and demands made to hundreds of billions without the physical basis for such a decision being revealed to the nation. So I must ask the highest. Minister: May we not be confident that all these requirements will be made public before a decision is made on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u7	Mr. President. Yes, it is written in the law that the procedure on the parole request is this: This is addressed to the Federal Bank. That request is reviewed by the late bank. If approved, it will be sent to the secretary of finance and economics, who should submit an independent assessment of the request for this decision to be obtained by the Federal Bank, and presented the subject of the situation to the Economic and Business Committee at the council. We in itself have a process based on the Federal Committee involved in the case, the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, and a press release for the Economic and Business Committee. So it is clear that, if it happens, we will discuss the matter here at the council. Otherwise, I'd like to say what it's like to say. The senator gave a discount on the stable tax to me that it's not the right approach. Of course, if the tax is to be paid, 39% of the tax payments can be paid by taking certain measures, thus reducing the tax. The second way to eliminate the financial problem is to go through the stability process, and it is the stability conditions expressed on the direct donations, secondly on loans available today, and third, by reimbursement on foreign loans provided by the Navy at its time. The question we face is, not really how this will come about according to the tax, but whether we are solving the underlying problem, which is the payment problem. It needs to be thoroughly reviewed. It is the task and has done it all the time. It was in order to solve the tax equal problem that we presented the bill this summer, and it was in order to solve the tax equal problem that we've been working on in this case right now for the entire ideal period, and we're not going to give it to anyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u8	A respectable president. That, of course, is the highest list. Minister to make us nervous, including... 39% of taxes can be avoided by extending to some hanging chair. Specific comments, e.g. on the part of Invenence, that it will fully determine the level of payment for the national structure, or long into the future. Of course, it is of concern if we pass on a foreign requirement, we pay tax, which is believed to be able to withstand fully today, to the extent that their less donations may be sufficient, but rather than to the real solution. So I must ask the highest. Secretary of finance again: If it is his firm belief that the stability proposals are equivalent to the stable tax and result in the same results, why should we be accepting the stability proposals of half the sum of the tax? [[The president calls.]] Is it not, then, much more loyal and justified in letting the tax fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u9	Mr. President. I hope we can get through this approach on the case during conquistancy. I hope that in these days and weeks ahead, when people evaluate what is happening here, we can get through the obvious temptation that I feel is causing. A senator may find it hard to get over, which is, "Let's look at the biggest dollar in the world, " it must be the best thing for us Icelanders and our best interests. - It's not that kind of thing. The thing was discussed here on natural grounds during the summer, and the fact is that we got involved in a situation that we couldn't take any longer, saying, "We're going to pass taxes unless people meet certain stability conditions," we're going to let the tax solve the problem. The conditions of stability, on the other hand, follow the problem. This was quite clear in the summer, and it is still quite clear. We're solving the payment problem. It should not be thought that humans have entered the place we are today without having appreciated the impact of these matters on payment for the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How do you think to let such things out of your mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u10	President. There is still one of the U.S. jugular negotiations with its employees in Iceland. We're talking about the fourth strike in one year. All these strikes have had widespread impact on society. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers are responsible for these talks on behalf of the state. I simply ask, "Why is this so? " Why does this happen over and over again? Now, the budget of the SFR has been a ◯ union, the Iceland Medical Association and the Police Association have been out of contract in the sixth month. Their scheme is reasonable and simple and clear. They want comparable dressbacks and other higher government remunerations. That must be fair. What's the top count? Ministers unreasonable in these demands? Is it unfair to ask for comparable dressbacks and a sentence that judged BHM and nurses on the basis of a law set here to propose the Supreme Court? For example, when financial ministers were in a strike, did they become financial ministers? V.E.G. The minister for review can also be read here from the government's declaration of policy, which states, permission of the president: The workforce will be far more at peace with the labour market on the development of work markets and future development. This is essential for Icelanders to start a new era of growth and stability. What about that fact, a respectable president, to the highest level? Ministers and team members have failed to achieve a wide - scale agreement and that the development of a workforce has not been reviewed but is here looking at the fourth strike in one year?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u11	Mr. President. In fact, I'd like to say that we've never been as close as we are today to make some changes to the Icelandic labour market model. That's what discussions with the official budget are about, and now that we have this conversation, a meeting is going on. So the conversation is alive, and I hope, of course, that it will bear fruit. I am quite tired of people coming up here and setting things up in a simple way. A senator did. Are these not reasonable demands? Don't you just agree with them? This was said when the doctors were in a strike and when we spoke here about the medical strike. That's what they said in the teachers' argument. That's what they said in the case of nurses. In every labour dispute, people come up here and say, "Why doesn't the state agree to the demands? Man, that's so unfair. At the same time, we can see that the calculations presented in these interviews and the activities of the industry have pointed to - the Sea of Eden has increased because of the development of a labour market - everyone shows that if it's to roll over the entire labour market, the biggest rises in extraordinary grouses, we're sailing into a range of inflation and higher interest. Surely that could not be desirable. We Icelanders and I must submit to the same laws as others when it comes to our being unable to make more raises over time than their productions are growing. It's as simple as this, unless we want to get more inflation and, as a result, higher interest rates. I'm going to say this for my part, because we need to find this balance in the conversation that is taking place right now. We need to resolve the situation, i.e. that we have already taken out considerably beyond the increase in production, and found a new balance. [[The president calls.]] For my part, the most important thing is that we finish this round by coming out of it with a new work model. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u12	A respectable president. I must ask the answer at the highest. Ministers, whether it is reasonable to keep the classes in a conflict now and leave them responsible for economic stability. What is unfair about wanting to have elevations comparable to those of other classes who have been raised, even by court? We're talking about the communities that are now in a strike-out simply want to get the compensation that this law brought and the highest. Minister is responsible. Why is it the end of all the bridal talks as high as possible? A minister is responsible for a quarrel? Recently, he declared that he wanted to prevent an argument from becoming an ongoing victim of strife and strikes. How will he do that? What will he do about it? He's obviously in the corner because it's become a pattern. When he's in the middle of a fight, he's going to end up in a fight. Is he not primarily responsible and in making a personal agreement with doctors about the terms that he has since refused to give to the women? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u13	Mr. President. This is the history of a labour market, which was compressed here for a short question to me. Why can't everyone get as much an increase as the one most? With Icelanders, this story has decades of history. There are dissociates, rising by strikes, by taking hostages at the Land Hospital hostage, by blocking transportation to and from the country, by blocking the activities of key institutions, no matter where they are, best not to mention isolated examples. You know these examples, you don't even have to look for the judges in the dispute that we now have decades of history. I am one of those who did not graduate from high school in Reykjavík because a strike had lasted so long in 1989 that it took the first time in the history of the school to pass exams and give out teacher's grades. The same thing happened when I was in high school, when there were strikes above. [[The president calls.]] This is the history of the Icelandic labour market, and we need to get out of it. We do not do so by asking: " Is this not reasonable? [[The president calls.]] We must agree with them! Because the next group will come, and then the next, and then the next, the dolphin race will go on. What am I going to do? questions are asked. I've got a conversation going on, we're meeting now. [[The president calls.]] We're going to solve this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u14	A respectable president. In the days of dawn, the Washington Post reported that the temperature of the sea south of Iceland and Greenland was at the minimum. The report featured a picture of the globe that showed the exact location of this area and the temperature of the oceans around the world. This rhymes with theories presented in a documentary and lecturer of the former vice president of the United States, Als Gores, An Inconvenient Truth, a few years ago, on the effects of Greenland's melt on Golf's Golf current and consequently the oceans around Iceland. This was discussed, as I said in the Washington Post and in the U.S. television station CNN, but this, of course, raises questions and serves as a reminder for Icelanders of the serious consequences that global warming could have for Icelanders. There are few opportunities in this form for Icelanders to ask: What is the message from the European government at the Paris Climate Conference? At dawn, it was the best. The EU aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, but it is unclear whether Iceland will do it independently, on its own, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, or whether Iceland will do so together with the European Union, which is now a fairly minor commitment operation for Iceland. What's the best message. Environment Minister for Paris this winter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u15	A respectable president. Thank you for the opportunity to talk about this. Six departments are now preparing for the Paris climate convention. I think it's a challenge for all of us to do something new. We can view it as a new beginning, a turning point in which all of us need to come together, even changing our thinking and our pattern of life. The Arctic Circle Conference this weekend ended so well. I think it was a Faeroe Man who said: " The Stone Age was over, not because the stones were out, but because new technologies began. It's the same thing we focus on, we have to face climate issues as a challenge, and I agree that the world will find new ways. We have stated that we are reducing fossil fuel use, and then we need to call for other sources of energy. We set the pattern, feeling most of the foreigners I've talked to in the past few days. They think of us as exemplary, and we want to be on the lead in the environment. That's what we're going to do well, and we're working on a schedule, Icelanders, that we're going to contribute to the Paris meeting in the beginning of December.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u16	Mr. President. It asks as follows: What is the objective of Iceland in this regard? Is it going to be in a fleet with the European Union, or is it going to reduce emissions by 40%? That's what's asked here. Then there is an independent subject in an independent request that I would like to direct to the highest level. Environment Minister: Is this a picture that has been discussed in the realm of the government? Have men, as I would do if I were in the government, asked our scientists about the significance of this film, what concern are we here, what time frame are we talking about? I'd love to hear it from the highest. A government that these things were taken seriously. Actually, I'm a little surprised at how little talk there has been about the disturbing news in this country but maybe it's such an awkward deal that we don't really want to talk about it. But we need to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u17	A respectable president. I think the government of Iceland realizes that the sea is precious to us and that this means that we need to mind and try to protect it and reduce pollution. Regarding the European Union, Iceland announced its objective on June 30, the government agreed on a date when we were going to aim for a 40% emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 in cooperation with the Norway and EU countries. That's what the government has approved. At the same time, as I said in my first talk, we are preparing a special application schedule, where we Icelanders contribute our goals. These tasks can be divided into three areas. First, there are measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gas in Iceland. Another is an international project, and the third is the expansion of the management and the monitoring of climate. [[The president calls.]] How important it is that we try to build them up so that we can compare evolution with what it will be like! [[The president calls.]] One is a joy, and a good partnership with the national sector has been to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u18	President. In recent decades, we have seen a significant increase in the incidence of inflation. Recently, contracts have been made or passed out on the merit of various public employees. Also, the current trolluscumenism of the Convention and the SFR question mark the inflation. In spite of the efforts made by public workers, however, inflation has remained below 2.5% of the State Bank criteria and has even been reduced to the level of inflation for the next year. But in view of the situation in which the inflation is in and the benefits of government workers have received during a recent struggle, I would like to ask: Has the inflation of the contract with government officials been evaluated? If so, how does it fit the conclusion of the type and status of inflation? What, then, is the range of pay limits to the Work Programme and the SFR, so that inflation does not exceed the criteria of the Federal Bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u19	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator says we have enjoyed an unusually long stability period now. This is partly attributable to the agreements made at the beginning of 2014, which were stable agreements and laid a basis for the growing cost of loss. However, the fact is that we cannot over-the-long increase in pay beyond the country's growth without being able to expect it to end in inflation and inflation under the pay layer. How, then, could it be that it is not already infected with the price of the agreement and that it seems to be quite different from that set of standards this year? First, we are deeply involved in various external aspects. Fuel prices have dropped considerably; airline costs have, for example. Also down, and other factors that have entered our index number have been very practical for us. In that sense, we have been in some ideal places to take out extra tensions for the workforce. But will this go on for a long time? We have contracts that take quite a rise every year, year after year in the years, and for these reasons the Federal penitentiary has increased the growth. I think it's hard to talk about some base, as the senator calls out, but I'm pointing out that these laws are valid in this matter and will continue to apply the task to increase the production in the country if they want to continue to increase pay considerably. It is not possible to have resolution and high rates of pay. There's a formula that doesn't work in Iceland. Of course, we hope that the large increases that have been negotiated will largely increase in the increase in money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u20	President. I can see from the words of the highest. Secretary of the budget that it is not high if there is a limit of policy-making to the Work Programme and the SFR. Now it is natural that the pay of public workers not directly depends on prices, i.e. There are no products that are being sold that are then used to pay employees pay, so they don't need to raise money to raise employees' wages, that is, in fact, a total of state funds with a set of priorities. This may have some effect on you too. I don't know exactly how that's going to be taken into account. From the top words. Ministers cannot tell me that there are high levels if there are limits of endurance to increase pay within the Work Programme and the SFR.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u21	Mr. President. I wish there were no upper limits, but the line, of course, is closely related to what is happening in the general labour market. The public cannot oversee what happens in a general labour market. It's been a universal rule, at least To date, to allow the exports of the country to give some kind of signal of the scope available for the increase in pay in the country. If, then, a person goes too far to raise the salary of a government employee, even to set priorities on the spending side, it seems to me that the remuneration powers are taken back by new fees and new taxes, unfortunately. It's been the formula, I've seen it, over the years. The point is, we can't just make out our salary. In this country, you have to make a lot of money. Prosperity will be primarily in the business world. We need to find a balance between public and public salary development. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u22	V.E.G. President. You can put it this way: I'm going to talk about something valuable here because I'm going to talk about the health system. I want to talk to the highest. Healthcare Ministers for the strikes that are now taking over one more trip and that have a very serious impact on the health system, such as other systems in this country. I would also like to express concern about the highest. A financial minister seems to think that strike victims are aggressive, but he is not using the emergency staff to force a righteous exchange of the people. That's what's going on. And today, the lowest paid government employees who are involved in a strike that affects 170 government agencies and, of course, another major health hazard. There are 1,600 of the 5,100 people involved in a strike. It says that this is the most serious strike so far because it has such an extensive impact. It is often that as the supporting services go away, people realize how much they value it, though they often include the worst salaries and often the most paid jobs. At the same time as this is going on, like at the Land Hospital, there's a lot of money involved in maintenance and running money because of growing crowds. It has not yet been won by the lists created in the last strike. At the same time that things are like this at Land Hospital and various other clinics, doctors are opening up new rooms in town and even some sort of mini-cure so the money seems to exist, they just don't go to the right places. What I want to ask the highest. Ministers: How will he remove this trend in the medical system and protect health care, health care professionals, and patients? [[The president calls.]] It needs to be done with more money, and it needs to be directed to where our services are most useful to us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u23	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator here said that the present strike is very extensive and has considerable impact. It is the assessment by the health - care provider that in many ways the performance of this strike is more complex and more extensive than previous human strikes, and the impact of this becomes greater because it is the result of other strikes that we have had, and thus, in many ways, conditions will become more serious than ever before. Clearly, this is a variety of disorders, waiting lists are increasing, and most important, it is obvious that the quality and safety of the service we perform will be impaired. This is a reality that we do not grapple with when this situation appears in the medical system. You're right. A senator says that he is maintained, especially at the Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri. Neither of the medical institutions is included in rent payment to the Realty of the State. However, as mentioned earlier, I do not agree with the criticism that the budget is moving toward the Land Hospital from year to year. That's not true. Business contributions are increasing by 300 million. K. actual value. Waiting, according to the nature of the case raised, including in last year's strikes, they won't be down in this condition. The problem's getting bigger. We are now working on a plan that we are getting information on in cooperation with health institutions and assuming that we will contribute within the next few weeks how we can improve the list of waitings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u24	V.E.G. President. I would've liked to hear some answers from the highest. Ministers more combative of the defense for the Icelandic health system. There is a serious situation. It undermines health care in the country if a land hospital doesn't get the money it takes to run the business properly. I also want a minister to see that once again the health - care system was under pressure, why the government would not have formed itself through negotiations in such a way that it would not have to come to a strike. Is there no sense of urgency? Didn't anyone worry about that? Didn't have the highest. Ministers of serious concern that the health system could not carry another strike, the fourth strike in less than a year? [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to ask you: How do you turn over the cane that provides money without authorization for the independent operating doctors while the public system is starving? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u25	A respectable president. It's with this blessed fighting spirit, and I don't know any better than that the health - care provider here had a great deal of pity. A senator who spoke here. Actually, the two of us are not unique in this room, I've understood the discussion of the past few months, and I've lost the last loss that all members of the body have the best interests of the health system. I don't think there's any reason to get involved in that stuff. However, this is a big project. This has been repeated in conference requests to the secretary of finance and to the health - care minister how better it could have been tried to avoid these strikes. I've always pointed out that two people are needed to negotiate, unless they're going to yield to all the demands of the state. It just hasn't been on tables yet. Regarding that question as a question. A senator's comments about the specialists and the contracts there are being made to make adjustments in that arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u26	A respectable president. On the autumn days of 2012, I was able to do so along with the highest. Secretary of finance, which, in fact, remained unchanged. A senator then, I know that he thinks of the time with great regret, meeting with the Canadian state government of Manitoba, to which Winnipeg belongs. We were told there very clearly, I know that the highest. A financial minister remembers this as well as I do, that it would be very desirable to have a lot of them, and they had calculated that they needed a certain number of immigrants to maintain their growth in the area, and that it would really be very desirable that a lot of them, a certain bit of them, would be political refugees because they were more likely to start companies, making jobs that the people on a different level would have been able to travel by long distance would be very unlikely to become, by permission of a president, some sort of bad luck at the time of their destination. This rhymes with what has been observed, e.g. in a report published last month by the International Labour Organization. It showed that immigrants had a positive influence on the economy they moved to, and they generally paid taxes and public expenses above what they received from the government. I think that this is very important in view of the discussion of the coming of refugees here to the land and the emphasis that is being heard in public discussion that we need to do better in these matters and in the regular discussion that is being conducted only during these days on the arrival of immigrants, people from poor lands who are seeking strength to find a better place to live. Sadly, our laws are being ignored, so these people are accepted in a relatively cold way. We have every reason to spread our arms, not just because it is our duty to do so when people are in need but because we need these people. We need people to come down here, move in here, want to work here, and do their part. That's why this question is asked. It is really just that people in Canada clearly knew the consequences of a fugitive's economic and the effects he would have. That's why I'm thinking about knowing from the highest level. The financial and financial institutions of the Icelandic government are behind these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u27	Mr. President. I hope so. A senator respects it to me that it is not easy to make a clear, simple answer to this question, i.e. The impact of a dollar, for example, came to Iceland to a hundred immigrants, as the second question sounded. But as we have seen, the Iceland government has agreed to contribute $2 billion. to assist with refugees and refugees this year and the next, i.e. 2 billion in our ability to accept the number and help in foreign institutions. Thus part of this contribution is spent in the company of refugees in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. We have not at this time made a precise decision on the number of refugees, but the welfare Ministry has estimated the cost of each fugitive who comes here about 4.5-6.5 million during the first year. Of course, this is very different depending on the individual's status and circumstances, but it indicates what we need to be done if we are to receive a certain number of people. As for the economic impacts in a larger sense, they include the combination of the population here, age, and education. In general, the economic impact of these people is likely to be poor, but rather positive and long - term negative. I want to agree with what. A senator when he says that it was a memorable visit to Canada in his day. It was very refreshing to hear the attitude it has promoted not just for refugees but in general, to attract people from abroad to strengthen the economic situation of the country. There's a lot to think about here. The situation of refugees is often less vague than that of other immigrants. Far from choosing to move abroad, refugees do so because of their external circumstances. When things have passed, if they do, there are cases of such refugees wanting to return to their homes, and for this reason it may be difficult to assess the economic impact. Regarding the question that turns to the effect if we were talking about 100 immigrants, I can't come back with an accurate number again. However, I plan to trace what has been written on the economic impact of migration in recent years. The marketing points of Arion's bank from September 17 were considered only on this subject, but more can be referred to. The labour oce has published on its website information on these materials, and I'm going to mention two things. Generally, immigrants have been older than others in the North countries, and their business initiatives have also been larger. Higher life spans indicate that the individual has gone a little further in the course of life, acquired knowledge, and, after an incident of education, a high percentage of employment participation is then evidence that immigrants are already active. So I think it's obvious that if we're trying to evaluate in this discussion whether it could be a bad or a good economic impact on immigrants, then I can see this so clearly that the economic impact is positive. This is our experience up to now, and more importantly, by sending money as we know so many examples in Iceland, we can also maintain economic positive effects in the country of that immigrant country and even support family or other neighbors in our country. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this aspect of immigrants; he certainly has a point in the discussion. My conclusion is quite clear on this. I think it is indistinguishable that if people are right about them, they can have a positive impact on economic standards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u28	A respectable president. I feel like there's an urgent need for this discussion and that Iceland has become an immigrant policy. In Iceland, I feel like a dominant policy that has never been discussed. Iceland's off-limits. It was ever decided, or was it decided? I don't know. What is the basis for this? We find repeated examples that people who want to live here, work and work and take their children to school here are not allowed. These decisions support some kind of legal arrangement. Why? What is bad about people who want to live here and do their part? Has that question ever been discussed? Is it not the basis for some kind of immigrant policy that we need to make? I think that will be the outcome of the nation's prosperity in the 21st century and the prosperity of many nations in which they are open to new people. We see an example of the fact that the prosperous nations of the 20th century were very open and are still with new people. [[The president calls.]] Why shouldn't we be?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u29	A respectable president. Much of the refugees who came to Europe, e.g. From Syria, by various means, well - educated people have money. They are people who can afford to buy passage across countries to reach the Promised Land, whether Germany, Sweden, or other lands. The poor who have nothing left in the refugee camp along the border of Syria. It's very important to keep this in mind. So it is quite wrong to talk only about the cost of refugees who have come to Europe. Europe's countries have had an important and necessary workforce, often in a lack of jobs. This is recognized in countries that have welcomed most refugees, e.g. Sweden. In itself, there is no reason to believe that the situation in this region will be different, although it is as evident that the cost of refugees'reception and adaptation may be high. The cost cannot be counted in months, but years. Of course, it would be curious to go over the calculations to find out what each fugitive would contribute to society in crowns and pennies, but such statistics are likely to be relative at best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u30	A respectable president. What a joy it is that this group of languages is being discussed more and more frequently. Like another one. A senator rightly said here in a pita while Iceland is very shut up. If Europe is divorced, it's very difficult to move to Iceland. Even if you are an American or Canadian, even if you are relatively well educated, that can be very difficult. That's because the principle in Iceland is and has been that, from the beginning of what I see, that the land is closed, that people can't move here unless we have a special benefit or if we need it; unless it's a matter of torture and murder. We are to be more open society in general, not only when it comes to refugees and refugees, but especially in general. People are treasure, manpower is a positive thing, and we shouldn't pretend it's some kind of leftover size in the world that we have to keep out of the rocks. On the contrary, we are to take advantage of the opportunities we have, and it knows the Almighty that they are there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u31	A respectable president. I wanted to point out the fact that in the coming decades, the population of Iceland from 50 years of age and older will grow by 44%, and those under 50 years of age will increase by 4%. We find that we are in desperate need of people. One of our main weaknesses and of our community is the uniqueness of our community, which is exactly the result of what others have already pointed out here, i.e. how badly this country's closed, however determined and when it was decided. There's something else that we have to deal with, you know, the very poor agriculture and the smallness of the economy. V.E.G. Secretary of finance is talking about production. I have reason to believe that the best way to strengthen all of these things, which I think we have pretty much agree that we really need to strengthen here, which is to increase production and make this an open and good society, is to change the rules and laws we have about immigrants, inmates and refugees, because we can only become competitive with those nations we want to compare with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u32	V.E.G. President. I think this is a very important discussion we have here now. Costs and economic impacts on refugees are very often drawn into the discussion of this group. At that time, claims about huge costs that are far from true are often substantiated. I think there's a purpose. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur's request is to address such a discussion, even pointing out that many Western economic systems have, in fact, benefited from the withdrawal of refugees through the years. I believe, though, that we need to be careful to use such reasoning in this matter. Investigating flights from poorer lands to the wealthier countries of the world are one of the exposés used by wealthy communities in the poorer. War and refugee trails multiply these avatars. So I think we need to be careful to approach these issues based on the question of cost or profit, focusing more on humanity and helping people in need. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u33	A respectable president. There is reason to celebrate this inquiry, and especially answers to the highest. Because the information about immigrants and foreigners in Iceland is often very superficial and sometimes characterized by prejudice. All the evidences that have been presented during these discussions after a series of refugees were thrown down over Europe during the past few weeks and that we should welcome refugees. It will benefit our community in every possible way. It is nice to think that the economic impact of welcoming refugees is extremely positive, although the reason we should do so to a much greater degree is humane. Iceland needs a lot more people, and everything that has been presented in the discussion supports the view that we are going to revise the import policy and open Iceland much more, take people a lot better and faster than we have done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u34	V.E.G. President. This is an extremely important discussion. I'm glad we're again discussing refugees' affairs in this room. What needs to come out of this discourse is a discussion and information to all who live here because it is clear that the situation regarding refugees has come to exist, at least for the next loss. Me and the senators have to use us to get information to the community, and I surely am glad that we have come to this place to discuss it. Then I would like to encourage the leaders of political parties here to study the chapter that discusses these issues in the category of policy. I assure you, every class has to talk about these matters at their national meeting and have a clear policy on what they want to do. I don't want it to hold anyone, but we all need to work harder. As members of the transverse Foreign Committee, we have only been considering the course of the groups, and there is no group, in my opinion, that has given sufficient weight to keep the policy clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's do it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u35	Mr. President. This is part of a difficult discussion as soon as it is needed and understandable, discussing the economic impact of the arrival of refugees or immigrants. It is important to always maintain the opposite or the basis for the discussion when it comes to the position of refugees and refugees is the humanitarian view, i.e. to extend the economic impact of the labor towards Iceland's workaholics in a crisis of helping hand. We don't have to go west to Manitoba, although it's a good time to go there. The story of Iceland is one screaming example of this. Long before Poland, who came here and are thousands of people, filling the gaps in fish industry, construction industry, and elsewhere, Iceland built in the updrafts of professional labor or schoolmen from Australia and New Zealand. For example, every fall of New Zealand butchers and skinrs are here. The more odd it is to discuss at times that this should be viewed as a special problem. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I agree that our need for precisely what we need will be increasing in the years to come with the change in age of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u36	A respectable president. I welcome the discussion that follows and how clearly it makes sense that the economic impact of the arrival of refugees is a positive long - term quality. I also want to agree that it is important to shape policies in the affairs of immigrants. As is the situation today, the Importer's Management Board shapes an import plan on the affairs of immigrants, but there is also a lack of direction. Of course, the basis for this begins in the classifications as previously established. New Zealand and South Africa were named here, as should not the French, the Dutch, the Spanish, the Netherlands and the Norwegians who have really influenced the development of our society over the decades and centuries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u37	President. I've lived abroad and had to face the question, " Do I want to move back to Iceland? It wasn't that easy to answer at the time, but Iceland pulls back, and it happened. People all over the world are just like any other Icelander, so I don't see any difference between people who are refugees from Syria or Canada or an Icelander who want to come to Iceland. What I want to say is that we want the world to be happy for people who live in it. I would like us to start off right away and to be the example of good works because people can live happily together as neighbors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u38	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. It is essential, especially today and in the early discussion of refugees in society. I think there is no doubt that the nation's economic gain will be great if we accept refugees or immigrants. But we need to make good decisions about immigrants, as we do in all other matters. I would like to point out that they are already serving as immigrants and foreigners in the subsidiary waters of the nation, a fishing road. As an example, I can mention in Southnes, where 70-80% workers are in the fish business of foreigners and have been for a long time. I also wondered that we need to think about these matters very well at the moment, because considering the plans you've seen presented like Masterplan from Isavia south at the Chefavour Airport and other cases that are being worked there, for example, I can see only that we need such two, three thousand people over the next few years, maybe the next decade, to do these jobs. I think we're supposed to welcome everyone here who wants to move.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u39	Madam President. I think, like many people who have expressed themselves on this matter, that we are primarily to receive refugees with humanitarian motives in mind, but it is also good to look forward to the benefits of the foreign people who have come to this country and who have become our greatest source of economic gain, for the benefits are invaluable. I have come from a fishing village, the Southland, and have known it ever since I can remember that a number of foreign traveling workers from New Zealand, Australia, Africa, Britain, the Faeroe Islands, Poland, Thailand, and other countries have come there to help us earn income by preparing exports. That is how it is in many parts of the country. An example of how people of different nationalities can live in harmony is the community in these small fishing villages. I don't think we should let things get too much for us and try to welcome all the people who come here to the country who don't let the system get in too much trouble. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your great discussion and celebrate. I fully agree with what has been reported, that economic impact on the arrival of refugees and immigrants in general is tremendously positive. I work in part as chairman of the Department of Health. At that point, it has been discussed and examined, and every study I've seen on this subject, shows how positive the effect is. One example is the birth of a newborn. The incidence of new enterprises and innovations in general for immigrants is from the roof. She's not just twice the size, she's a lot bigger. That's why it's tremendously positive. I'd like to record it as a dog. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir, the beloved daughter of Conspira, came in with regard to the immigrants'policy. Granted, the groups have to do better in molding immigrants'policy, but they also need to do better in making sure that their representatives reflect the demographics of society. [[The president calls.]] If immigrants at a council were as many as the percentage of the people now, first and second generations, then there would be six immigrants here. I can't see them. So the categories need to do much better in this too. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u41	A respectable president. I want to be like everybody else. Of course, members of the Parliament welcome this discussion and remind us of what is so important, since all of us who have followed up the discussions on the languages of immigrants both in Europe and elsewhere have noted how difficult things are often difficult, delicate, and complicated in political contexts. So it is a pleasure to listen to what is said. Councilmen discuss these matters and find the solidarity and harmony that are common among most people as to these matters, not just from what men in the traditional definition speak of as a subject or problem, but as an opportunity. You see, there are many opportunities to rejoice in the future and in the variety of people. I am grateful to be a member of the General Assembly who thus handles matters, and I also especially want to use this opportunity and rejoice at the credibleness of a statement. The minister of finance was here before, and it is important in the discussion when discussing this is often a fixed basis for society that it is clear that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u42	A respectable president. Like other members of Congress, I would like to agree that there is a far greater opportunity than the threat of getting as many of us to live here, and here it stands out from every man. However, I cannot help but call attention to what we hear on the news about these matters, just last week, that families are being expelled. That's all we ever hear about. I think it should get on with this, sorry, respectable President, halleluja-kor that's here on these matters because they always say no, no, no. I look forward to seeing the Senate Committee that will be back in the next few days. Let action follow the words and will of members of Congress. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u43	A respectable president. It's nice to hear that the generals are united in the matter of refugees. It would be wish we were always like this. We could work things out. Living in a multinational society is a quality of life, a quality of life. I'm celebrating this discussion. If there are economic benefits of the arrival of refugees, let us, indeed, spit in and welcome more. I think we can do a lot better than we're doing. But I'm celebrating the discussion, and I'm happy for what's at this point. Let's keep doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u44	Madam President. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place. She has been very positive and happy. That's very good. Of course, we're supposed to do all of this on the basis of humanity. There's no question to me. But then we also know, and we need to keep in mind that it is part of this discussion, that cost is not a reason to do better. Costs do not support opening up many refugees or immigrants in Iceland. It is a positive economic impact, and it is positive. Of course, it does not have to go as far as Manitoba, as mentioned earlier, to find an example of this, but it is a very good example because thousands of Icelanders went there when they challenged after the eruptions of Asys, 1871κ1875. After 1900, more books were published in Canada than in Iceland. That's all there is to say. We need to be very aware that we too have been in the position of being immigrants and refugees. How many Icelanders went to Norway, and are there still working after the collapse? It's exactly the same situation. It is heartwarming to hear the tone in this discussion, and I hope that when the foreigners enter this winter council, we will be aware of the solidarity here in that regard. In fact, I think it was reflected in the work of the Committee, which is very positive. But we need to do better, and it starts here. We need to open our discussion and maintain a positive attitude in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u45	Madam President. This has been a fine discussion, and it is probably normal and reasonable to discuss the concerns of refugees and immigrants from this economic point of view. Let's not forget that, and I think it's actually been shown during the discussion, that we have the gaming border on the inner market. That's not less than 500 million. People who can, on the basis of EEA Common Rules, have moved their move here in a relatively unsatisfactory way. The recent discussion has primarily turned on those outside the European economy. There are people who seek to come here simply for work, in connection with job oers or other things, those who seek to get here, and political asylums, and so forth, one of those things that the government has more control over. I'm going in line with this discussion to let me mention at the end of this discussion that we must never lose sight of the fact that there are black sheep who are trying to make use of the open windows in the universe. We have experienced it in Iceland, where there are crime rings, which, for example, try to practice a man's hall under a shelter of rules that offer some abuse. We need to be aware of this, but our watch over the issue is not going to ruin the benefits of getting people who are willing to take root here, start a new life, come here and work. It is difficult to find a balance in this, and there are no doubt that we have failed in it, but we need to continue to take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u46	A respectable president. It was only discussed earlier in unsupervised inquiries, where the abbreviation was. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, of the importance of our having a powerful plan here, how we were going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A major part of what we have opportunity to do is transport. We have an enormous amount of work to do. We have not achieved the results we should be able to achieve relative to access here to greener energy for vehicles. Therefore, many of us feel that specific measures, involuntary measures, and longer than have been taken in an effort to succeed. That's why I was already very happy. The minister was here giving a talk on the bandworm of the so - called king, i.e. The follow-up bill of the budget bill, where he singled out these cases specifically as a sixth point in his speech in which he discussed substitution of the value tax for importing and taxing sales of electricity, hydrogen, or linking automobiles, which were being extended the temporary warrants of dropping values tax on such vehicles for a year. The problem may be that we are always going through this for a year, so the long - term picture is no one. When a decision is made to cancel the worthy tax on these vehicles to one year at the same time, there is little to be expected of mine and not enough long-term vision. I was also happy when I was the highest. Then, at the end of this chapter in his talk, a minister mentioned a plan to set up a group of workers to discuss this whole matter. I think it is now very important that we look both to our energy sources, as well as to our vehicles, and look at the whole picture. That's why I'm glad that this group of people is being assigned here in this espionage period what happens to this group of workers and how they are put together or put together and who will come to him because I have a lot of expectations for him. You see, I think and I've taken the lead in a group of members of the United Nations who have repeatedly filed a case at the council that we will create a period of tax freedom on these cars and energy supplies until we reach 10% of the fleet green. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I think that's a way we're supposed to be able to look at. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister also mentioned that way as a possibility in his speech because the Norwegian have done this, so I look forward to his answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u47	Madam President. Thank you for this inquiry. We have a somewhat fragile system. There are a variety of expenditures we may contribute, some of which are directly used for income, automobile costs, and other such costs, the price for the import of cars. In some cases, we are considering more environmental effects and, after times, funding transport improvements in our country, as there are various fuel costs. In addition to this, there is a clean environmental tax. It's been my experience that we can't live with this temporary situation much longer, like the whale. A senator came in, being in great favor because of electric cars as a provision for a year at the same time. Now I feel that it is time for us to evaluate the effect of this illusion and ask us: " What are the future goals for the electric car - service, and how do they compare their goals with other goals we have set for making traffic pay for a part of the transport process? What other factors are there in the system or other causes of charges or curses to be considered as well? I'm going to give two examples in that discussion. On the one hand, I have very serious doubts that the signals we have legalized on environmentally friendly fuel additives provide the results of the policy. I believe it will show that this leads to more expensive fuel and limited guarantee that the incorporation materials such as this are necessarily as environmentally friendly as humans were left when the law was changed. If so, we are only increasing the cost of fuel. At least this is what I want to look at. The other is that we have a variety of spells on diesel on the one hand and gasoline on the other. It seems that dier is environmentally dependent than gasoline. I believe that's a very reasonable argument. While burning on diesel releases may be reduced by carbon dioxide, the second should also be considered to fall for particulates while burning on diatoms, which are also contaminated and, especially, poor for urban areas. The question rests with the question: If diesel is, why should it have some injury if it is, in general, as much as burning on gasoline if not more? Since then, a remarkable development that we have seen in recent years is that as the lawgiver in various countries began to direct the delinquency toward what is environmentally friendly, we have seen a revolution in producers. Although we have seen bad recent examples of their attempt to escape this program, such as the scandal at Volkswagen shows, there is no question that nearly all producers are developing more efficient machines each year. We see even progress between production years, which divides many percent into more efficient machines. This development has been initiated with motivation set out by the lawgiver and with a concerted effort, e.g. in the European Union. What I want to do and have discussed in the government and discuss it specifically with the Minister of Internal Affairs and Environmental Ministers is to establish a group of people looking at all these factors: What environmental goals do we want to reach when we look to the legislature that affects transportation in the country, especially a vehicle? What source of income is needed so that we are not interfering with our long - term plans in government matters? To the extent that changes are occurring in the external environment, e.g. because of electrical vehicles and after the incidents of reduced fuel use by individual automobiles, which give us reason to review the contribution to the global transport sector? These three factors support this work. [[The president calls.]] I've already got a memo to prepare for this job. [[The president calls.]] In the following steps, I'm going to work this thing further with my advisers, and hopefully appoint a group of men to whom I have not yet made a decision on how to be appointed, and I'll need to consult with the other members of the Ministry, but on either side of the New Year's Eve, I hope to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u48	Madam President. It's best to make it right up to the highest level. Ministers don't have enough men in the staff, so I'm running for office. I am very interested in these matters, and I think it's good in itself that the group is about to start, but sadly, it's happening now that it's been a long time, and little has happened within the first few years but to extend temporarily and to one year at the same time from the time of the former government. At that time, there was much work to be done. In effect, the taxing environment of traffic was reviewed by making the release of carbon dioxide anti-tolls on the import charge and payment of automobile bills, dropping charge on electrical cars and metal cars, taking up carbon bills, etc. But there has always been a need for this to be followed by creating forethought and permanence in the tax environment because, while not, this trend inhibits the uncertainty of how long it will be maintained for this period of time. Sooner or later, the time will come when she will have to do something to build up the road system and run it. [[The president calls.]] How will this be done, and what will be the future's profit? [[The president calls.]] That's the questions people buying new cars are asking themselves. If we want to speed up this trend, we need to answer these questions, and even if they have been before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u49	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion, both with a leadman and with the highest. Minister, and most of the major issues are involved. There is no doubt that in the near future there will be a turning point in the electricalization of the fleet. It is important, however, to press on quickly after that trend. She's taken a slow guess on her last losses. Severe and rapid technological development is taking place in the production of vehicles, etc., but it has to be made very useful to consumers and to install stations that make it possible to make full use of this. That is why it is a pleasure to do so. According to the question, the minister here declares that there is a time-long policy in the media so that this important environmental trend can be accelerated and one consumer in general. [[The president calls.]] Each family of hundreds of thousands of each year can be saved by having access to a fuel truck instead of a fuel truck.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u50	A respectable president. I agree with the leader that it is very important to reevaluate the tax of vehicles here, both vehicles and fuel. As the situation exists today, the expenditures are made by many people, oscillating, and in some respects it has been found that not all benefits are as environmentally friendly as laid. I welcome reactions to the highest degree. Secretary of finance in this regard to the inquiry. However, at the same time, I would like to warn that when it comes to vehicles, people go in and think about the environment. It is not only a consumer's point of view but it is also to restrict the development of this area if the consumer management is of any government subsidies of public money. I remind you, for example. the legitimate question that humans always need to know: What are really ecology benefits in transport?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u51	A respectable president. Thank you for what I've been told to hear here. I just wanted to come on that point - because I cut it down on the top of my testimonials. Ministers, naturally because the question has to do with certain taxes and fees - that I feel it needs to be maintained, in this discussion, how important it is that the public, anywhere in the world, contribute funds to evolution and technological development in this area. There, the greatest victories have been won in this area. To some extent, I agree with the last speaker's view of consumer management. I'm not impressed with her, though in this respect it has been found to have made a big difference but to have to keep money from developing technology. There we can really determine something that we don't even know exists now, which will take us far beyond that. I just wanted to get this point in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u52	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion, it's important. What I think we should be focusing on - although I think the inquiry is a good price - is using taxes and fees to reduce what we think is very undesirable. It's a very normal way, and it's here, of course, in this room and in the political field that we decide our own company in and which direction we want to go. We should go further, we should look forward to a group of people who would be wondering about it and map out the possibility of total energy exchange in the country, that we would be leaving using fossil fuels. Of course, that is true even now that it is practical for each individual. Those who are familiar with this business tell me that it's possible to drive fleets in Iceland today to use eco-friendly energy. Looking to the fleet, however, there is a goal that we should try to map and try to imagine how practical it is to reach.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u53	President. Because of what was said here about the consumer control thing, I don't really look at it that way. I see it as an enormous amount of fuel import, so it is essentially cost-separation as such. This is the cost of the fuel that would not be available for the use of national electricity on cars. It would not be a drug control directly. It simply cost less, and it does not have to charge in the same way. I wanted to add this discussion to the fact that I don't feel in Iceland's situation about using vehicles like this. It takes time to load. It would be very convenient if automobiles were thus equipped to extract batteries and load preloaded batteries, they would not have to spend 24 hours loading the car to be useful. There may be a slightly different situation that I would like to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Minister for the answers and for the discussions here. I would like to remind you that there is a government and sectoral consultation or industry called Green Energy, a cluster of transport exchanges. It is a question of whether the process cannot be rushed just by means of it. Secretary of finance owns representatives there, as well as the Environment Minister and Industrial Minister. These people are already involved in energy exchange, and they may be used. I would also like to come in for a moment that I would love to get to the top. A minister rushed this job because I think it's extremely important to us. I think a lot of people in the starting rooms are ready to contribute. It's not about consumer management. It's about creating a general motive. The worst thing we can do is that as governments, we begin to choose one technique out of the way. We must not, however, make incentives that are common for the technology that comes into existence and will eventually rise here. I think we have a hell of a chance at this. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that there is some kind of vacation period of taxes for green transportation until we reach 10%, 7% or whatever, we could establish a parapolitic solidarity on that. I think it'd be worth it for a little while. It's about much bigger issues, about how we really are going to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This is our chance, and it does not mean that we are going to reduce emissions with our right hand and then be doing something else with the left hand. We need to look at this in the big context, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It was spoken of as a blender, and there are exciting benefits that are domestic. And we should look at them in this context, too, because pollution is being harnessed directly to create energy sources and chemicals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u55	Madam President. Other countries have made it their goal to set a number of targets for the proportion of automobiles in automobile fleets and to have preconceived according to the period in which they will reach the numbered targets. I think it's a good idea. We must see if we do it that way. The underlying problem here is not the failure of Icelandic consumers to buy the electric cars but the cost of manufacturing is still too high. That is why the electric cars, whether diesel or fuel, cannot compete in the price of conventional cars. This is gradually changing. Similarly, the size of cars is increasing, i.e. Cars that were once able to reach 15 to 20 miles [5 to 20 km] today are reaching 40 to 60 miles [40 to 60 km]. Many cars sold in Iceland would be sufficient to care for all the general needs of home without needing to reassign. Since my arrival in the Ministry, I've had a few indications that there are a number of things in the customs law that we need to revise. For example, we have a lot of indignities for trucks. If I remember, they're 13% toll and a certain size, they're going down to 0%; I'm talking about what they're paying, 13% or 0%. At the same time, they are very large, contaminated, and waste - consuming vehicles. You might wonder: Is it wise, in line with our overall policy threshold, to have such an injudgation in this area as we have a smaller number of cars, which are even less than worth 65% products? [[The president calls.]] I think the system is running a little too complicated, too many steps in it, but it's about to look, as has been said in this discussion, and it's obvious that we agree that it's time to go over these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on purpose of St Joseph's Hospital. This is a building that we all know well, a building dedicated on September 5, 1926. The hospital was built for St. Joseph's sister in Hafnarfjörður to run a hospital and draw from the Guðjón of Samúelsson, an enormously beautiful building, and its cultural value in Hafnarfjörður, as well as in the vicinity of Hafnarfjörður and all the land. There has been quite a talk about the hospital. A St. Joseph's Hospital was united at the 2011/2012 season, or in that very moment, if I recall correctly. Since that time, there has been no activity there, which is very unfortunate. Efforts have been made to sell it and other items, but they have not worked out. That's why I'm here to ask the highest question. Minister to his hospital plan, where that matter is. A town council recently concluded this or agreed to suggest a proposal to the local government on the matter and on the St. Joseph's Hospital. It was now October 8th. I don't think there's any political disagreement on this matter in the town council of Hafnarfjörður. That is an enormous harmony. They really want the building to be built so that they can try to find a way to fit the structure so that it can continue to be used because it has begun to appear. It is a sin if there were to be damages, for this is a town's shelter and a large building that should be suitable for various functions. I wonder. I want to ask the highest. Minister if there's any government activity in there, some institution. It has been determined whether there could be a centre for the withdrawal of refugees. Several factors have been considered, such as whether the town will simply be allowed to have the building done. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who is willing to consider, b) whether he would have thought or could consider installing some other operation and then c) whether there are any possibilities for putting the building into the hands of a third person who could put it in use. Just to clarify, for those who may not know about it, I ask the highest. The minister of possession of this building is in that the State has 85% but the Hafnarfjörður only 15%, so the State has the absolute right to control the property.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u57	Madam President. It is our common interests with the City of Hafnarfjörður to see life again in the home that was once hosted by St. Joseph's Hospital. The house address was closed at the end of 2011. This led to an examination of the possible use of the facilities. This was done by the Ministry of Health. There were some ideas, but in the end they did not prove to be practical. They included most of them in setting up a new service, which would have called for donations for management from a government fund. The Ministry of Economics took full custody of the former hospital property by the end of February 2014. The government has 85% share in the real estate, while Hafnarfjörður 15 percent. This is a case that has a somewhat complicated structure in our administrations, i.e. how to put property like this back in use. In this case it was urgent to have a conversation with the town council at Hafnarfjörður, and the decision was made to advertise property for sale or rent. At the preparatory time I'm here, the conversation developed, so Hafnarjörður wanted there to be a charge or separation that some health care of the house or of these buildings would exist. I state that Hafuna farms have not so far expressed interest in buying the property of the state, but the property was advertised as I could, and it was done in the way that they were advertised for sale, I'm not sure that the sale of rent was made, as I mentioned earlier, but the property was offered to sell in this charge, and received an entirely unacceptable offer of property, far below the value of the real estate. It is appreciated, among other things, that they may have been due to the citations involved in the advertisement because many followed up with employees in the Ministry of finance and reported their interest in buying the property but for other purposes. The following has been a conversation with Hafnarfjörður, and we in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs have been mainly considering the possibility of simply advertising the property again with the reference to what I was doing, that there have been interested persons, but also on the basis of the long national experience that it may often be necessary to advertise property more than once and twice or three times, even if switching to an acceptable offer. As a result, however, the city of harbors has expressed interest in obtaining forwards of property. That's where the real thing is right now. Rather, I agree that it would be right to advertise the goods for sale, that people have made themselves available, and that they want to buy the assets and test the price for them, and that they can see what would come out of it. But at the same time, I have a great grasp of the fact that the Hafnarfjörður world has become bored with this process of all its roots back to 2011 when the hospital closed and that as early as 2015, we are at the end of a year, we are still wondering what we are going to do about it. But it doesn't change my opinion that I find the next step to posting property for sale again and falling away from the obligation to start some health work in that real estate. Of course, that is far better because they are in the common holding of the state and of the harbor town of Hafnarfjörður, which takes this 15%, to be settled. It must be put to the test now whether or not there can be a common understanding of the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u58	V.E.G. President. I have recently moved to Hafnarfjordur, and I am now one of their representatives at the High Council. I've felt that every year you live in Hafnarfjörður, you think more about St. Joseph's Hospital, it's more important to you. I'm told that this is part of becoming a real Merition, but it's a process that only runs out with another generation of my descendants to become a real member of the Habitat. The hospital is in many ways the heart of the town and has now spent four years without activity. The building is a village beauty, a beautiful house, and it is really unacceptable that nothing is going on there anymore. I welcome the highest words. Secretary of the budget to post the building again. At the same time, I'd like to state this case, that if nothing comes out of it, it's time to allow the town to have authority over that building, because the government's ownership is not brought into business. It is a history behind this possession that places responsibility for the State to use the hospital and ensures that there is activity there. [[The president calls.]] If I quit, with president's permission, I'll get rid of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u59	A respectable president. I feel that men should be authorized to quit when they're so good, so good. You see, you're absolutely right about what you're doing. A senator that if you can't find any use for this building, they should let the town try. The latest thing about this is that the town has been trying very hard to get the building, but it hasn't worked out, and the government hasn't wanted to give it up until now. Now, the Council of Hafnarfjörður has agreed to send a proposal to the town government to call for a commission to be appointed by both the Hafnarfjörður and the state to sit in and the prime committee will be assigned to find the new and appropriate role in behalf of the neighboring community at Hafnarfjörður, and to look to the whole organization of the area that belongs to the hospital and the building all in agreement with stakeholders. There is, of course, more. It is also said that the first project must be prepared to implement a preemptive process where interested ones will be given the opportunity to present ideas of hospital use. There's a Hafnarfjörður town, I think, considering a very interesting way of cooperating between the state and the local community in order to get some movement on these issues. It seems at least here that they have fallen from the requirement that there be a connection with health care. Then these views must go right together, and I think there must be some kind of support here trying to get some kind of movement going so that this building doesn't make it. It's not just Hafnarfjörður's case, it's all our business, because it's a huge, enormous building in our history. I think we must be proud to do something about this, and I don't think Ministers need political support from here on that project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u60	Madam President. I am convinced that jobs and activities that would be successful in that property can be found, but unfortunately ad on the property has not been successful. I think there are reasons why I've gone over. This would not be in line with the practices that have been in line with government and rural society that the State would simply hand over its property free of charge. Nor has a harbor farm offered to pay a special price. For that reason, I think the most natural thing in the world is that men try sales again without those signals. I'm sure, however, that if you're determined to find good work into this house, into these real estates, it's one game, especially if you're just going to open the door and let people in without paying high rent or other such. It should be noted, however, that housing needs some improvements, especially some of these properties require improvements. No doubt it affects interest in coming in there as a tenant, now or after an incident on purchase, to be the real estate for sale. It is our assessment that these are some valuable possessions and are to be held in a manner comparable to what has been done so far. In no way should the early Christians try to prevent us from working with them in restoring our lives to our real estate. At least it is my desire to resolve this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u61	Madam President. I made a request at the last council on the results of a committee intended to examine the financial and professional benefits of increased cooperation or cooperation between the colleges of the northwestern politics, i.e. The University of Agriculture of Iceland, the University of Hólar and the University of Bifrost A committee was set up to consider this and return the results in springtime. In spring, I received the answers that she would return pages, and now it's quite late in October, so I assume the committee has returned its findings or is at least on the final meters. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister on the position of this work and the results of the Committee. In review, the idea of uniting these three university institutions has been considered. At the top. Ministers have previously had some debates about that matter, and I would like to use this opportunity to stress that it is very important to consider the founding system on the field of research, science and university education that it is being done with professional benefits as a guide. So I've asked the highest. Ministers before me and I wondered if their views are guided, in view of the fact that this too is the case in a single - language field. For example, just to speak human language, of course, it is that when the community of college has been discussed, it has usually been very difficult to cross the limits of concern over losing activity in a set terms to other districts. It is not easy for you to suspect when you see together three university schools, two of which work in related fields, i.e. in the field of agriculture, and in the third field of social science, mental science, law, business, and social sciences, that they are more looking at the threshold than the professional benefit. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, just so we can speak here in human languages, whether it's the ideal boundary that has been in charge of an opinion of this union. I would also like to ask if the committee has returned, if not whether the results are coming and what is the highest. In view of the fact that they are working in a very different field, a minister is surging on these issues whether or not there are unity among these three universities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u62	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry, saying first that it is absolutely right. A senator here noted that a service group appointed on February 27, which was originally appointed for three months. Getting a conclusion on this subject may lead to one of the issues that are so growing that as they get deeper into the situation, they are growing. I can say what. A senator that I had a conversation today with the heads of this group, and I'm told that the results will soon arrive, work is totally on the final meters. I don't think there may be any reason to express myself any further about the group's activities, the results will speak for themselves when they appear. To make it clear, I have not been shown any preliminary results. You're absolutely right. A member of this body brings up an issue that focuses on the professional aspects in which university institutions are united or cooperated. It is best to remember that here a few discussions were made about the possibility that the National College of Innunciation would be joined by the University of Iceland. To this end, there were certainly strong professional arguments. On the other hand, there was a great opposition to that idea, especially at the city market. It is vital that we also look to such views when it comes to school and research on the land. You need to keep in mind that these institutions have two roles. They have an important educational and research role, but they also play a role as pillars in the habitats where they are located and I think it is inconceivable to overlook. On the other hand, when efforts were made to achieve the union of the University of Iceland and the National Farming School of Bifrost, efforts were made to make the operation of Bifrost more effective, there would be work, where significant funds of the deceased would be carried along with this project, and it would be further expanded to reduce the activity at home in the district, as it were said. Sadly, though, they did not succeed. On the other hand, in view of the situation in which these schools are in, which are desperate institutions, when you look to the laws and related ones in university institutions that are explained in the university law that it is obvious that because of student birth, these institutions have a very difficult time meeting all the standards, in fact, that is difficult. I have to tell those in charge of these institutions that they have done very good work in spite of the challenges they face. However, we are under obligation to seek other political ways, but at the same time we meet the definitions or current professional guidelines. A senator makes it a subject. You're absolutely right. One senator points out that two of the three schools in this particular district are active in agriculture, and this suggests that it must be possible to examine how the two schools can work together. Of course, with regard to the third school, the University of Bifrost, there is more emphasis on social science. In fact, the head of the school has spoken for itself that it needs to be developed a field of instruction on food production. I think it's possible to envision a very exciting course in which the emphasis is placed on the agricultural schools involved in the scientific fields, including the study of the farmers themselves, and then on the subjects offered at Bifrost, e.g. in law, business, and other forms of fun that can be very useful for those who plan to work on agriculture. A respectable president. I reiterate to the directors of the committee as a subject. At the beginning of his speech, a senator has told me that they will return the results in a very short time; it is a matter of days when the committee will return.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u63	A respectable president. When I saw this issue on the agenda, I got into my statism, and I found that in Germany there are 75 universities for 80 million people, in Denmark there are probably 33 universities of 5.6 million people, in Britain there are 127 universities for 65 million people. In the northwest, there are 30 of you. ... andthere'sthreegrads. It's all going to be disability, disability institutions, and can it work? There are two universities, farm schools, there, and agriculture, about 1% of the country's production. I used to go through funding for these schools, and they're about half of the resources these institutions put into their country. Can this ever be a thing made? Don't you have to admit that these institutions, which may be major research institutions, will be developed into major research institutions, that it will be processed? A respectable president. I've finished my case. [[Foreground on, graceful.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u64	Madam President. Iceland is a very poor community. Can it work? Yes, it can work, and it has been shown to be just fine. It can also be said of the three colleges in Northwestern politics who have certainly lived in debt and financial difficulties and are different types of people. There are two agricultural schools and then the University of Bifrost, which has legal and business priorities. But I don't think it's impossible and unacceptable that the future of these schools is endless. In recent losses, the agricultural university of Innunciation has faced uncertainty about the future, both students and teachers. And the decision must be made in this matter, of course, on a professional basis, but also looking forward to a report - I think that Vífill Karlsson published it and introduced it to the members of Congress - which shows that smaller universities in a foreign model have only gone well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u65	Madam President. The agricultural university at Hólar and the National College of Innunciation. The agricultural university at Hólar does fish farming and fish research. There is no agriculture per se. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] He offers traveling services. It's not a agricultural field like that. The school also performs horsepower and evangelism, which is primarily involved in urban areas in Iceland today. In fact, most growing people now live in urban areas. Otherwise, it is true that these three schools and countless other government institutions in this country, especially school institutions, that we get them up to the rural area, and then we don't admit that they need any approach to run them apart from their urban population. It's just that way. There are fewer students in rural areas. Other than that. Not many years ago, the development of telecommunications began in a country with a wide range of functions, including the U.S. In these schools. It has created opportunities for them, but problems for them too. After all, there is a price to pay. [[The president calls.]] There is a need to be prepared to pay the high cost of having small institutions in the rural land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u66	Madam President. Thank you. Councilmen comment, and the highest. Minister of staff answers. V.E.G. One minister said that the deeper the situation, the more complicated it would be. I can certainly believe that after I've come a little close to these matters in my short life, because university is complicated institutions. V.E.G. A minister named here based on this. True, they need to be there, but it is my conviction that when we make decisions about the future of a university career, the academic evidence must always be there overruled with other arguments. It can be guaranteed in a different way, but the settlements of the country are uncluttered by some bypass into the academic language. There must be the same requirements. Thus, the leaders of these schools also want to have it, that is, their ambition. It's our ambition to work here that the work is first-rate wherever it's won. V.E.G. On the other hand, a minister mentioned the combined effects of Iceland's Marine College and Hostage School at the University of Iceland that has been discussed and examined at previous levels. There might be opposition in the province, but the community may still be solved as long as the authorities are satisfied with the academic views behind it. For example, we see in the classrooms all over the country, driven by the University of Iceland, and benefit from special financial funding in order to ensure financial security so that they will not be prepared for the budget within the major city of Reykjavík. I have a great understanding that it is relevant to the settlements that there is a powerful research and knowledge work there. But I think it's important that we make decisions on these issues that are arranged in this order, because I believe that if the academic arguments are first, the other thing can be solved, i.e. Then how we will secure the powerful work in the settlements of our country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] First and foremost, I would like to hear a minister's attitude toward that in a second answer, but I could still have spoken about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u67	A respectable president. Thank you so much. Councilmen for this discussion. The difficulty of these schools, as we have seen, is that too few students are studying there, and the size of these institutions makes it very difficult for them to measure up to the standards set by law on university. This is evident in the quality vacuums that have been in progress, the talk about the University of Bifröst, and the University of Hólar, even though there are differences in the subject. But that is not to say that the present situation is without problems. That's why I wanted to look at the possibilities I've described in the past, which are involved in cooperation between the University of Hinnunna and the University of Iceland. That's what I think would have been the promotion of the operation in the city, I had faith then, and I still have. But back home in the province, and here at the council, I find a whole lot of places. It would have called for a legal adjustment, and it was my conviction that there was no more to them here at council. When it comes to their viewpoints as it is. A senator described earlier when I wholeheartedly agree. paritaprevir In this regard, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, as to the fact that we must look to the academic viewpoints, they provide guidance. But it tells itself that we are always in a very peculiar position when we have institutions with so few students who have to meet all the requirements of a much larger university. I'm not convinced that in the studies that men have done regarding my university level abroad, they necessarily agree with such small schools as these. Not to be overlooked is the fact that much of the students in these institutions are studying far away. It makes the whole school community weaker when so few students are there. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate, a respectable president, of course, the professional evidence must be in charge. But the importance of these institutions at home in the region cannot be overlooked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u68	Madam President. I'd like to call attention to a remarkable museum in Kopavogur, whose name is Iceland's Music Museum. It has been driven by the town of Kópavogi, with a government scholarship, for several years, and built on the same models as other museums. I can name the Gardour Museum, which is run in the same manner, where treaties have been made to support the State in promoting museums, but still have a central role when it comes to the cultural barrier. The local congregation is somehow infested, so the state runs a museum, but in a very different way - the Museum of Nations, the Art Museum, and the blessing of the Museum of Nature, which is always a archipelago in this context - but then the government comes to traffic through museums and then through special contracts. The reason I specifically ask this is, first of all, that Iceland's music collection operates with various other institutions. I can mention, for example, an annual agency that has a huge collection of musicians in the field of music, I'm quoting manuscripts, and I've also been in great cooperation with the National Music Museum. I'd also like to mention the National Radio Museum, but the highest. Ministers have declared it, if I do not fail less, that there is a particular need to be increased, i.e. The Writing Department of Kingdom News and the cultural resources we have there in various fields and in the field of music. In view of our discussions and cooperation with different institutions, I would like to ask the highest. Ministers out into his vision of the museum, but perhaps the vision of the future must be based on a slightly broader foundation. In fact, what may provoke a discussion at the General Assembly may be that we have museums that play a very central role for the cultural community but are expelled in this particular way. I find it interesting to know if it's the highest. A minister believes that this arrangement was successful, i.e. that individual rural groups run museums that have central roles with grants from the state. In view of the fact that this is not a very old arrangement - a determined model started in the years before the crash, that it should be carried out in this way, and that it was based on the society's interest in recruiting - I asked if a minister thinks this is going well and if we should continue on this move. I find it interesting to hear a vision of the highest. A minister does so in view of the importance of ensuring this culture as well as that of others. In fact, I take the music collection here as an example because I have a particular interest in that subject. Of course, there is a great need to work with other museums in the same area. I've mentioned here two, and it may well be at the top. A minister can mention more. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to bring this up, both the general structure of culture, which is really central and relevant to the whole country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is appropriate to review that the National Music Museum of Iceland was formed by Kopavogsville with a charter approved in Kopavog's town council, October 5, 2006, and with a contract signed on January 23, 2009 by the then Education Minister and confirmed by a financial minister. Then it was decided that the Ministry of Education would strengthen its business by means of each annual contribution. The important thing is that the Museum of Music belongs to Kopavogstown and runs by the community, with the support of the Ministry. The collection is designed to carry out its extensive assignments, including those to care for. to record and share any information or items associated with music in Iceland from the beginning, such as musical instruments, musical instruments, etc. Therefore, it is intended to have initiatives and study the history of Icelandic music and music in cooperation with scholars in this field as well as to create a position to work where possible. It should be directed and adviser in the possession of audio recordings in the Icelandic language, both published and the audiographs owned by the strains and individuals, etc. From this it can be seen that there is quite a wide range of work involved in this collection. It is my opinion that in recent years, the music collection was successful in working on these projects. It is, of course, the hope of all who are interested in these matters, and I share their interest with difficulty. A senator, that it may continue. This collection has been recognized on the basis of museum law, and on this basis it has the right to apply for a fund of resources for various projects, but the collection has received a total of over 4.5 million. K. to various projects in recent years. In spite of all of this, it is important, a respectable president, that the museum not play a legal role in this field. For example, the National Library of Iceland is designed to preserve sound literature in various formats, according to Article 6,◯9. par. Laws on Relations, No. 20/2002. It is the role of the National Museum of Iceland to contribute to the preservation of civilization in accordance with the legal law of the museum, No. 140/2011. Of course, the music collection has had good cooperation with these and other collections of material preservations and memories related to Iceland's musical history. You may expect that to continue. I also pay attention to the comments given. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir to cooperate with this museum at the Institute of the Year. It is the hope of government and mine that the National Music Museum of Iceland can continue to work hard at the projects it has been doing as a leading body in this field. It is hoped that governments will continue to support that work in a worthwhile way. However, it is hardly appropriate for me as a minister to express in some way a vision for the non - state activities of the museum and to leave the museum's owner Kopavogstown to shape its future policy. But I'd like to say, given the motive and for asking the question of the moment. The senator's assessment and evaluation of the results of the policies and policies that have been present in recent years for the exact communication of collections owned by the local community, their role, and their success in fulfilling their assignments are likely to be performed. Then I come to the second question why. The senator, who is this respectable president, is there an increased cooperation in this field? My answer is that Iceland's music collection has had good cooperation with several other collections on the preservation of memory and materials associated with the musical history of Icelanders, as mentioned earlier. It consists of the largest cooperation between the National Library of Iceland, the University Library, the National Museum, and the Department of Kingdom News, for example. In recent years, as you can see from the cultural background of sarp.is, which is available to all. It is evident, then, that with the development of workers from a collection fund and the possibility that they have been able to open up to support collective tasks, cooperation will only grow as they have the opportunity to work together on individual tasks in the music industry. With reference to independence, it is the nature of the matter, according to the heads of the museums, that they have premeditated increased cooperation in these areas. But it is clear that all the developments in this country are pointing to that direction and can be expected that Iceland's music collection will still be involved in such cooperation as this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u70	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. It sounds to me that there would have to be a way of agreeing with some of the people who are in charge of holding the cultural heritage of the people of the music. Of course, the National Music Museum is owned by Kopavogs, but it has been a source of strength and has played a vital role. But like the highest. There are other members, such as the National Library, the National Museum, and the League of Music, who have a role. The country has been established by a highly cultural collection of music, and the inheritance has been preserved, whether in Siglusar, in the city of Rhines; or in the Valley of Bildûr, where I know well, Jón Kr.. Ólafsson has been exemplary in this regard. I feel that this inheritance needs to be cared for and that nothing will be destroyed. [[The president calls.]] However, those museums are not necessarily kept in their arms if anything changes in those who have kept their arms around them so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u71	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. A senator's reply and comments. I have questions that I have, and I don't have answers to them myself. We have an assignment that is widely available. We have it at a museum which, like the highest. A minister points to, owned by Kapovogstown, but still has this central role and directly bears the name of the National Music Museum. We have National Library, National Institute of the Year, National Museum, and we have a collection of Kingdom News to the highest level. As a matter of fact, a minister has probably suggested 20 million. K. contributes to the budget bill for this year, with particular attention to the set-up there. The reason I've brought this up here is, of course, that this is an enormously important cultural figure, a cultural figure that we Icelanders have hardly seen before in recent years, a cultural figure that we can hear about in excellent TV programs, but also in good radio programs on Channel 1. It would be interesting for the Ministry of Education to consider whether we are reaching the goal of maintaining this cultural heritage and providing it as best when it is done in such areas. Now I'm not asking the highest. Ministers to enter the territory of the Coopavog Company, who was interested in this project at the time. It is important that these materials allow the wands to flourish in all parts of the earth. The only thing I'm rolling up here, in my second act, is how we can make sure that this responsibility is clear. It is authorized in museums to mention certain responsibilities on individual factors. I don't know if it's the highest. A minister has considered that this warrant will be replaced. I think this is a very important debate for us senators who need to know the understanding of the system of communicatives, i.e. whether we feel that we are achieving the goal adequately in the present system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-19-22.u72	A respectable president. I reiterate my gratitude for the advising and for others' sake. Councilmen and to say first: When it comes to legal projects in this field, as I discussed in my first reply, the National Library of Iceland has a clear purpose to preserve sound literature in various forms, according to Regulations 60,9. par. a law on rights to collect things, so that aspect of the matter is very clear. On the other hand, the site of the museum in Kópavogi is far more extensive, in the sense that these cultures are presented, etc., by far more extensive activities than the actual collection of audiographs is related to the work of the collection I have mentioned before. You're absolutely right. In his speech, a senator and an advisor mentioned, as well as me and the Icelanders, have given us relatively late insight into the great culture that we have in our music. Studies of scholars have shown, for example, that there is a wealth of evidence from the Middle Ages regarding the music of Icelanders, which has probably been more suspicious than we had before those studies were published. That's why it's very important to get the hang of it, and it's probably because of this discussion. I would like to reiterate, however, that there is, of course, a powerful force in the fact that rural society is involved in this business and in more collections, such as, for example, the U.S.A. has been mentioned about Sigludjördur and Keflavík or in the town of Rhojanes. It is taking the initiative and the local people's interest in certain aspects of their culture when it comes to the music, whether it is a national gathering, as one knows north of Sigllarund because of the existence of Bjarni Þorsteinsson son of that city, or some other form of music that one wants to promote. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important to take the initiative, more dignified president.
