ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u1	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the senator like a lot of other things. Congress officials today and in this discussion what he would feel would be the case if this proposal or other suggestions were adopted for the activation or use of activation options at the General Assembly, and it had come to an arrangement where the people themselves had the lawsuit, or when the time comes for the nation to receive their own legal rights so that a certain minority of the people could refer matters to national pay. If it were a matter of activation, use, or protection, or the nation's energy policy would be affected. A senator accepts that the nation would take such a case and the conclusion would be contrary to the senator's will, would he not still accept that conclusion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u2	Mr. President. Of course I would. During the last term, a number of activation options were placed into a new frame program that I agreed on, of course, in advance. On the contrary, I felt that I would be assigned to a novelty party. But I respected the process that had taken place, and I trusted this process and this tool. I thought we should do it this way. I believe that throughout the years this group of paintings was characterized by a leader of many stakeholders or of various interests, that humans have decided to engage in active activity at Kárianns, and instead to form a Lake Sevenland park, and so on. It's always pulling back and forth. I would have thought it was natural for humans to have very clear legislation, nature protection laws, which simply a law on how to act on such projects, how to make decisions when it was made, and people would do so. But, of course, when it comes to the central areas of Iceland and regions such as Torfajokus, when it comes to Þjórður, when it comes to Thirty Years, Witch Age and the concept, it's not just a private community. It's a vast globality, treasures shared by Icelanders. There have been some very complex expeditions here to solve the planning of rural areas when it comes to airports, but I thought it would be a lot more natural for people to consider in these matters, although I did not. The important thing is that we come together with conclusions and respect the processes we have decided to apply to these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u3	Mr. President. I couldn't agree with that. That's what I've been most referring to in this discussion. I am both the activation and the protection, for my passion is not in that area, and therefore I have not worked very hard to learn the pros and cons of this, e.g. in terms of economic recovery of the activation and economic growth of tourist, tourists, protection and future generations, etc. But there are a few things I feel like there's a baseline in this. One is that as soon as you start applying, this is an irreversible operation. As a result, there must be a doubt in not getting started with something that cannot be undone. I feel like there's one of the baseline values that needs to be guided. The other is that there's a lot of decisions about long-term dating and men stick to it, and that's what I've been calling on in this discussion. I'd like to ask the senator about one last thing. If a smaller section of the council, one third as in Denmark, could bring up cases on the people that the Allied Council would agree with and some particular smaller part of the country, perhaps 10%, could bring up cases approved by the Congress in the National Code, how it would be affected. A senator of the conference and an opportunity for long-term dating at the General? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u4	V.E.G. President. I'd be very into it. A senator was describing. I think that would be a great improvement, and to the point that men were forced to make a decision. This, of course, is the most lacking possession of the government. There is a very significant history behind activation ideas when it comes to e.g. The servant who reaches back to 1907. I've told the tourists more often than I can recall that there are farmers in the area who have the first right to activation, but he's been in the hands of foreigners three times. I don't think anyone realizes that. Of course, there is a very long time between the ability to calculate the degree of decline, one time in the 20th century, and then people soon come to the conclusion that by Burgurus, we can get the maximum impact on the water, that is the most powerful activation of humans. Of course, this water that we are talking about has been activated very often. [[The president calls.]] But we have been extremely difficult, that is the point of a short talk here, to make decisions on that subject. [[The president calls.]] There would be a means to use, a means by which we should use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u5	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall's excellent and meaningful speech. Hv. A senator made a good impression on the frame and on the professional tool so important for us to support, and by saying so. regarding the formal requirements that the decision-making process should be taken out of this room. I wondered about the position we're in with the case where there's so much difference in the form that we're all in a state. It is now that the standards of this matter, including criticism, have been identified. From the EEA, which spoke of the need to explain more formal requirements for adjustment in the treatment of the council. I want to ask you why. What is the difference between the appointment of a minister, as well as a senator, making such changes in the history of the matter? Or that of the council itself? If we continue with this criticism of the requirements, the EEA considers it important to review the current situation as the current law of No. 48/2011, about the protection and energy efficiency programme, are involved. How can you tell? A senator visualizes changes in formal requirements, including The EEA talks about?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u6	Mr. President. I don't think there is in itself any need to make major changes in the law. If you read appear to be 9 and 10th. they are very clear on the task management structure and on the basis of the procedure and method of giving their proposals to a minister and that a minister should base on that procedure. Therefore, should it have been developed in such a complex and extensive way as a minister of authority that, if it were meant to be, would anyone bring in an amazing change? In other words, would it be normal to make a pact proposal for the construction of a certain house, after being treated in a committee for a subsequent discussion of a council-sense proposal, to make a suggestion that four other houses would be built? Or is it not four new independent cases? Would it be normal for a proposal to become a member of the Union that people remember a subsequent discussion with a change of plans to become a member of two other federal alliances? Is it not two independent issues that require independent discussion? That's what we're criticizing here, of course. I know, and I can see that at what? Congressmen that they understand exactly what I'm talking about. Of course, if the current larger things had wanted to take action on the initiatives involved, it would have had to go on a previous discussion, of course it would have had to go through a professional procedure in order to begin with. Then they would have been equipped to enter the hall for discussion and decision making. The advantages of this issue have not been considered. That is why this adjustment is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u7	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. The senator's answer. Yeah, I understand why. A senator in some respects. If I maintain my authority over the Agency it is very important that the Agency reviews the problems of the current law. From the damp as a boy. A senator made this clear, how can he be sure that it is not the political policy as determined, the conviction responsible for the intervention of the minister, the political arm of the minister, that he is implementing his high-rate policy as manifested during the last term when a minister took the initiative from temporary use? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u8	A respectable president. That's a very good question. Senator. The difference is that when the minister had that priming option, he performed a so - called 12 - week narrative process that the law assumes to be carried out by the task management. The suggestions from the minister came in to the previous discussion, went to the committee, discussed, discussed more than one committee, and thus were much more preconceived and more careful than the suggestions here for one discussion in the second issue. of a synonym. That's the difference between the two. That's a wonderful difference. I think it's in the eye. Of course, there is nothing to stop a political minister from entering, ministers are often political, it is absolutely correct. A senator, but the difference is that they leave at least through two discussions about the activation option at the highest level. Minister's offering.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. Actually, the poem was missing. Anyway. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether according to a professional discussion with fully formed professional groups in frame 2, when giving their proposals and Ministers, he considers that on the basis of a series of proposals, political hands, or if he agrees with the Power Institute, which states that these benefits were transferred from the energy supply system to a waiting party in the ethics of the Councilis in 2013 without a professional basis that would be unfounded by basic professional opinion. By transporting the proposed activation of the Parliament from the category of innovation, the Agency's estimate of the sustainable development of electricity production was put at risk. The rate of accelerated biohazardisation would be increased without these hydrodynamic activation measures. This would result in the technical and economic security and efficiency available through the lack of concomitant geothermal and hydropowers. Energy in an ongoing reinvigoration that is not harnessed in water tides is lost while energy in aquifers may to some extent be viewed as a rescue that awaits innovation. By the passing of a judicial decree, if it should be agreed, it would be in accordance with that view. I'm asking why. A member of the body: Can we not argue that we are living up to these changes in a professional opinion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u10	A respectable president. Of course, some professional activity has taken place, but it is not over. Whatever the case is, and the evidence that was presented, and therefore the basis for moving the activation of a new category to a waiting stage, under the proposal of the programme management, is different from the inclusion of the postponing option for use, because it is not for age and lifetime, it is not a decision for the duration of your life, but certain ideas that are still being developed are still in the evaluation. Activation options for waiting for use without a professional assessment are irreversible. Although people would like to talk about their completion of environmental assessments, it has not been sufficient in any case to implement the proposed activation procedure. So there is a big difference between the two. There are a lot more geologic ideas that are included in the innovation category after this traffic of the project No. 2, If I recall correctly, there are only two water sources against 14 geothermals. Of course, people must be thinking about the experience of Hellishenization and what is happening in this case as a result of energy loss and energy loss and the reality faced by the Eternity and the frustrations all, which have led to the modern linking of the Whoville to the Hellisheic action. You need to ask yourself, " Is it worth attacking some of the activations of the Smokeynes? ' I find that there is a significant difference between waiting to be saved and reducing the delay for use. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u11	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, as noted in the past many times, debates over whether this adjustment is a contingency. I'd like to ask what is being done for the council and when members of Congress should come up with a new proposal if not when it comes to other payments. We cannot bring it in when it is recommended, so it goes on a committee, and I can't see that it will be done at any future time. Here, I have two opinions from two problems. On the one hand, according to the Ministry Department's opinion, taking into account the law of No. 48/2011, a change in the classification of activation initiatives proposed, as the benefits have been obtained by project management in accordance with the laws of the law. However, it is the Ministry of Industrial Affairs: Professional groups have discussed all of the above activation options in the second stage of the framework, so to this extent a professional assessment is available, although it may be disputed as to whether it is based on the latest data. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But there is professional food.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u12	A respectable president. Me and what. Of course, a senator can talk about it all night long, and he has talked about the long - range difference between whether a professional assessment has been conducted that means that someone will go up to the proposed priming idea, soaking his finger, putting it in the air, and then saying, "Well, it's already been evaluated, and it's all right. Or whether task management professional groups have said: We recommend that this activation option be moved from waiting for use. Hv. A senator knows exactly what activation option is suggested by a project management to be suspended for use. There is only one activation option. It says, in the decision or decision of a president, that there is not enough room for any professional decision or professional opinion. I couldn't agree with that. I think the law is very clear in this matter, and I believe that you can reason with the highest words. The president says there are no categories in effect. [[Locked in: fully formed...]] [[The president calls.]] There has not been any professional evaluation, so it can be said in an adequate way: This is a professional assessment. [[Get in: Full-armed professional groups...]] No, they haven't finished yet...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u13	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the House of Booths to Ásmundur Einar Daðason, 3th. Witchest. "I'm not going to be able to do Congress any time soon. Today, then, at the World Council of II, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district, Anna María the Elíasdóttir of Elias, and 1st substitute on a list of the district members is already at the council. María, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, who has once sat at the General Assembly, is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u14	By letter dated May 18, the president has requested this, according to the 8th stanzas of Figure 1. 13th par. Parliaments, on the management and monitoring committee, are reporting on a report on the National Reexamination on the Marine Committee and the Management Board on the import and export of agricultural products, and a report of the National Reconclusion on the management and activities of a nursing home in 2008- models 22010.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u15	A respectable president. It is always better to realize that continuing the matter here, the frame, is a matter of great inadequacy. Last night, the labour market partners, both the assistant director of the National Association of Professional Science and the President of ASI, made it clear that this case had nothing to do with collective agreements, it would not have even come up, so at the highest rate. The prime minister told us a lie in the Senate about why this was the priority of the government. [[Up front.]] There's been a lot of reasons why people have called here, and if this isn't a premise for the case, I don't know what. [[Is that a lie?]] I met the other day a Kennian senator who gave me an excellent word. These are: If you choose to go fast, you run alone, but if you slow down, it's because you have a hand with other people. I think we should keep that in mind on this matter. We'll order the government to walk by hand in the frame, but then we'll also have to slow down and follow the task management. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u16	A respectable president. As we have seen, this discussion on the Framework Management Plan is a very unsatisfactory matter to continue. I want to pray to the highest. To try to get some balance in the discussion, the president seriously considered the matter off - limits. The discussion and discussion of the recent chairmanship of the past few days have been made very broad informative knowledge of the content, components, and forms of the case. In fact, it has come up during the discussion to the highest level. Prime Minister has supported short - range changes in a frame plan with reference to the crisis of the European Union of Iceland, thereby covering himself, this prime minister of the Presidents of Iceland, behind the poorest people in Iceland, in order to go against Icelandic nature. A respectable president. The situation has become so severe, and the situation has become so intense in the community that it is a matter of shutting down waves in the council itself, and I am impressed. A president to do that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u17	A respectable president. Yesterday, a congregation meeting was here until about 15 minutes over one, if I recall correctly. There is no need to complain, but it took place a good discussion and a good one. 5th a.m. We're out of Suðvest. As a result, there was a good exchange of opinions that once again revealed that this matter, a framework needs to be developed, with the objective of finding a solution to the problem of the discussion itself. Then, of course, I mean a change in plans. Business committee. What's so confusing is that it's a second discussion of two. If some committee job was after this discussion where this discussion could be addressed, it would not be a big deal. The problem is, at the end of this discussion, we will vote for the whole proposal. When such important material discussions take place in the middle of the night, a world of Congress loses out on the material discussion that most of them are constantly calling for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u18	A respectable president. I don't think it's later a good thing to take this Senate thing off the program. Of course, we didn't understand it here for days. Why in the vast government would have this strange affair on the program while the country is on fire and is on its way. That's when it came to the highest level. One prime minister, a respectable prime minister, explained to us that the reason for the program was that the agreements were so urgent. I have to confess, a respectable president, that for a little while you're thinking, "Yes, now, there's some reason why this is on the program. So, what do we see? Both professionals and labor leaders come by and say: "No, this has never been discussed in collective agreements. It's just a perfect misunderstanding. It seems that the prime minister had dreamt or imagined that this was something of a bargain. But it doesn't, and since then it's not to be taken off the program and to take over the Eygló Harðardóttir on the program or something that can help solve the difficult issues in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u19	A respectable president. Here was another excellent discussion last night that is of great interest to us, especially when we wondered if there is any reason to keep this matter on the schedule. First, three benefits, i.e. all the benefits outside the Hagmic activation are in the current professional assessment, so these two benefits are being considered both here and in the Task Management Board. [[Material discussion.]] It was also found yesterday that in the Commission's largest part of the employment committee, an incredibly harmful error in which the details of the activation initiatives were proposed by project management during the last term. It makes you wonder if there is any pressure. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son made these adjustments based on his decision on the wrong information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u20	Mr. President. In the case still on the agenda, a frame plan, you are tightening your knot even further rather than trying to solve the problem. Yesterday, the news showed that the introduction of the Prime Minister in a collective contract to be an intervention in a frame plan was carried back by the labour market. They said that there had never been a discussion about making a bargain, so the highest prime minister owes us the answer to which party he is negotiating. Are they here on land or somewhere else? This discussion has discussed the need to support our speech. We have been arguing that this council arrangement should be retracted, but the administrative body seems to be unconvinced. What, then, can be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u21	A respectable president. I call the president's attention to the fact that in the present language code of the government opposition, there are some benefits being made. The government has this discussion, just in this discussion over a week, 783 talks for the President's meeting board. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Something like this has never been seen before. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Something like this has never been seen before. [[Up front.]] The new politics that at least some of the anti - political parties announced are now running low. The senators of Birt's future and Pirata have the most active members in this record - consuming area, so that not only were they as bad as all the others, they proved to be worse. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] In addition, people here are breaking down and most customs that have been practiced here at the council, not to mention common courtesy. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Everyone can be... A respectable president. Can a respectable president manage a meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u22	The president is trying his best in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u23	When a senator starts to express himself to the media about how often or whether another member of the body went to the bathroom on a journey, it can be clear in what kind of trouble is involved. When this situation is held here at the assembly and in discussions with the media, it may be clear to everyone what kind of unacceptable conclusion has become in the act which the government's stand here and then adds to the media interviews by other portrayals as I mentioned here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u24	A respectable president. Yes, there is good reason to comment on the way Congress is starting to blog here personally, and it took the stone out of its mouth. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir was here on the blog discussing my personal conversations with another senator who is her companion at the Assembly Hall. This has happened repeatedly. This happened earlier in the winter, where she posted information on our personal conversations on Facebook. It's a whole new thing here. Here we go. The vice president of the United States states that we should walk hand in hand in this matter. Then we're gonna have a snooze. Councilman of the Left Green, Syghis Svavarsdóttir, who says we're full of ignorance in this matter, knows nothing what we're doing, and that there'll be no peace, she said in her speech yesterday, and there's no reconciliation and no agreement in this matter. What is the meaning of man's agreeing here to solve this problem? The majority have already fallen off the most controversial activation option in their changing proposals and have opened up the discussion with individual senators on how we can resolve this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's only steel, because the result of the memory of the section is no agreement; let's retract the matter, the matter is the incompetent, the ignorance of the whole thing is complete; you don't know what you're doing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You know everything better, huh? Parliaments in the smaller part, but we in the greater part, and under such circumstances, there can, of course, be no reconciliation. You will continue on the incredible journey in this case to be a disgrace to the House of Congress and the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u25	A respectable president. V.E.G. In this discussion about the President's conference board, the prime minister studied the new record of Iceland. The government's situation here is to follow a completely new course by discussing even the conference of Presidential Government before a meeting begins. It's never happened before. [[Up front.]] In a material way, we will discuss a frame plan with a mass of contempt for the highest. Prime Minister. It's a completely newcomer, a respectable president. The government situation has so much speech under this program that it does not bring its own agenda of change... [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u26	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u27	...on the agenda for the meeting. A respectable president. It is becoming repugnant how the government's work is doing its part in the public talk, not even starting a meeting where their proposal is the first part of the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u28	Mr. President. This is an unpleasant situation when we should be discussing housing proposals at the highest level. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir. But the president has the program, he has scheduled a case known to be a minority will not agree to complete a discussion. Then they'll have a vote on it and it'll be accepted. This includes violating frameworks for the development of long-term policy and energy policies. That's not good. But what is good about this matter? What have I heard recently? That's what Bjarni Ben did. "Liberty. Ministers recently said that he would like to be paid national votes along with the election that the people themselves can call for national law on a matter. Then we wouldn't have to stand here because a president could set something up, the memory part could let it pass through to the nation if he thought the people wanted it, or the people would stop it. That would be a solution. That's what we need in Iceland. We need tools other than a filibuster so that we can develop long - term dating that the nation wants to see. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u29	The president would like to ask members of the Parliament to give him a full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u30	President. Yes, we still object to the program and will continue to do so until it is changed. [[Suggested motion?]] The failure rate from the majority of the employment committees stops here. It's a violation of the frame plan and as soon as it goes out, we can keep going here, but until then we stay here. We'll be here. I don't like methods like this, but this is the only way we've got. And we'll stay here. I challenge those who take the government of the country to try to - forgive, a respectable president - to turn their backs on themselves and keep society from stopping here, as the council has stopped. They also plan to stop society in ten days. I challenge you to get your shit together and take out this unfortunate thing here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u31	V.E.G. President. They say there's no room for how we want to walk hand in hand. We have had the simple requirement to propose to the highest degree. Government, proposal by the Supreme Minister of the Environment, will be on schedule and taken care of. It's about Hahby activation. That's all the government asks. But here they fight against their own proposal to get something in the way of them. We are owed to the explanation why they cannot wait for two months to get the results of the project management so that they can handle the issue as well as the program. [[Up front.]] Here's the flame of a strike society, everything's in chaos, and then it comes to the highest. Whether we set Iceland record or the world record, the prime minister and begins to appreciate what he has a special talent for. Does it really matter? What's really important here is moving this community forward. It burns on big issues, both in strike, in education, and in other matters that need to be discussed here, which is the highest choice. Government and government to make time for this, and that's just the way it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u32	Mr. President. Without delay, a major contribution would be made in this case if the administrative body agreed to comply with the Law on a Framework Programme. Not much is required in the pursuit of reconciliation that a person agrees to obey the law. I wanted to ask the highest. President, the highest. If the unwise decision is made to continue with this deadly war, prime minister will probably not be there. See, Prime Minister has to explain the discrepancies in his comments that the payment of this adjustment is an important entry in collective agreements and the source of the labour market, where no one is aware that the framework plan has been so much as mentioned on a name. That discrepancies call for an explanation from the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. It would also be fascinating to hear the highest sound. The prime minister's listing of national interest in using manuals in the interests of the old industrial policy may somehow become a crown and a pair of money in the pockets of workers in the next few months. [[The president calls.]] I am excited to hear the economic talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u33	Mr. President. How sad it is that we will have to take so much time for the Senate work to talk about the language and its content and its meeting regime! There have been a vote for whether or not the matter should go out of the program. That led to a conclusion yesterday, and the matter should continue in a material discussion. It says that the will of the small section stands for the matter to come as it came from the minister into the council. During the last term, the will of the smaller section was that the matter would be settled from the council in exactly the same way that the task force returned to the minister. This was not a requirement at that time, but this is the case today, and this is the case with more of the committee - this is the case today. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Foreground on: No.]] I guess that's what it says today, exactly the same--how's the situation different from what the council did during the last term? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, it stands as if it was settled during the last terms. [[Up front.]] Now the smaller part is going to go to the gym...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u34	Sounds in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u35	Well, you just keep talking, I won't interrupt any further speech here on the President's conference board. Here you go, the speaker is yours.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u36	V.E.G. President. I express concern over the schedule of the day. This is going to be the biggest strike in history, the health system has been paralyzed for up to seven weeks, the food production in the country is upset, the travel service will soon be in big trouble, and I demand that it be at the highest level. Prime Minister here gives us a report on this situation. In the state's issue, his concern for the situation was revealed and that it is far more than just a salary, that underneath are factors such as the disparagement of property and money from resources. This is what we need to talk about here in this room. It is, therefore, disappointing. The prime minister has joined a panel of candidate officials, but it is good to get these minute facts ahead and make it clear that we are just beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u37	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker and the highest. One prime minister to bring us a report on the job situation and how he provides for the administration of the State in that regard. Because a ministerial servant began by taking off what he has said, it is worth recalling that on May 15 he felt that the government's opposition to ASI's demands was more likely to get in the way of the government. Yet, he does not want to mean that he discussed this matter with collective agreements or ASI. V.E.G. The prime minister, by permission of the president, said in a speech: If you want to make more money, you really need more valuable things in this country. Sadly, though, too many cases of energy shortages have been undermined. I want to pray to the highest. Prime Minister to explain that lack of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u38	A respectable president. If this is the case, there is a big difference, how different it is, how these suggestions are applied from project management now and during the last term. But from then on, of course, we should look at the way the law is written and focus on applying it. It's boring, of course, that the situation is this way at the council. It was very strong to warn at the beginning of the last week that this would happen if this was the case under way. I think we all agree that we need to resolve before the council ends. It's a matter of disposal, housing, the possible game of the government to solve the quarreling issues. It is the responsibility of the majority of the council to consider the atmosphere of such suggestions and how most of the council would like to have the atmosphere here as we engage in these joint assignments. [[The president calls.]] There was a strong warning that this would make a mess here, so people simply can't come up here and be shocked at the position they have come up into with both eyes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u39	President. In view of the above words about my alleged personal conversations, I would like to read what I wrote on Facebook yesterday: ▪ Participate in a vote on the length of a meeting meeting, and he participated in a vote on the length of a council meeting, and he was involved in rejecting the policy of reconciliation in the memory of the section with a program of adjustment proposals. He was just happy and well, playing ossuary and snarling with his partner, Jón Gunnarsson. That's all I said. I can't say that this is an intervention in the privacy of members of Congress. We're here at an open meeting, and you must say when someone plays ossuary. If that's forbidden, Mr. President, I'd like to have detailed instructions on the fact that it is absolutely forbidden to say anything about what we do at the council Hall. So I suggest we drop off live transmissions of these meetings. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u40	V.E.G. President. We should all try to respect one another here in this room. It may be a small thing, but if someone feels inclined and feels guilty, especially about personal protection, I suggest that instead of coming up here and saying some joke, you apologize if someone is hurt because of the senator's words. Mr. President. I don't have anything for the President's special meeting board to set up, and I hope that after this, I'll get a sound after my input, but suggest that we take over the program, the program the president has put in place, and we continue to discuss a frame plan and draw attention to the fact that I find very special that men are coming up here and that the council can't make adjustments in matters like this all the time. A report shows that by the bill that became the law on the box that national energy efficiency and protection policies will be made in the hands of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u41	A respectable president. There are others who can count and do not need to call the council information services for a summary of the talks being conducted here. Simply put, many in these halls who have participated in these discussions have a long way to reach 150 talks about the President's conference board at night. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, 130 at the highest. Prime Minister and even 150 at the highest. The current president who was brought here during the last term. And that's how I could keep going. Let's just drop this game, Mr. Honorable President, and talk about it. What I find serious is at the top. As we see that 65 thousand people are going to do business within two weeks, and it is heading for the largest strike in history, and we are calling here after discussions about it, that he then uses his time in the platform to discuss toilet trips. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It's below all the caves and the highest. The prime minister is to come up here and review with us today how he will respond to the workforce ahead of him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u42	A respectable president. I need to express any concern about the inadequacy that has been demonstrated by the heads of the government in the discussions about President's conference board. They must simply assume responsibility for the way they have presented this matter before the council and the fact that this is not in harmony with the law, according to their own counsel. That's the point. We simply ask that the law be followed, that the motion be withdrawn. We in the United States are ready to support the original Minister's motion. That's not the least of us can do. We are also willing to help the government pay the task management to speed up their jobs whenever possible, for there is every reason to give more money to this important project. A respectable president. This act cannot be continued by the directors of the government. While the attention is on this surprise proposal, it's the highest. A minister of education is obliged to destroy the high school system throughout the country in complete conflict with the locals and then face strikes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no situation in which the council is occupied with charismaticism as humans present a vast and wide exercise of power throughout the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u43	Mr. President. I'm sure it's the worst thing in the world today. Ministers will be late called great peace chiefs, but the comment I make at the President's Board and the Senate is the fact that it is. The members of the greater part of the General Assembly have chosen to associate with legislation on a frame plan, such as the one on the other. This has been repeated in the discussions here, Mr. President, where people choose to quote project management in other initiatives or the current task management; where people draw out old comments on their last frame of action to support but choose not to release new references to the matter in question; since men avoid giving a answer to what energy is to use, and even admit in the hearing that they do not have an idea of it; as it is suggested that the dangerous errors of the committees of the greater sector; and no human attempt is made to answer for it. Mr. President. This discussion is completely unacceptable. If a respectable president cares about the respect of the council, then it should be taken for how to associate with the discussions here, how to associate with legislation established by the General Assembly itself, such as some table where you can choose and reject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's not how we're supposed to be involved with the law, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to direct it to the highest. The secretary of finance that we have here are members of the High General Assembly, which were not in the last government, and this is of no relevance to the recent government in destroying the box now. The matter of Congress that is so controversial is discussed here and now in this particular era. Governments, not last government. I'm just telling you the truth, no matter what happened during the last term, it doesn't change that we must want to save a frame plan and that's what this is all about. It's not even about a unique activation option, it's about saving a frame plan from this damned move. Business committee. All that has to be done to get some sleep. The members of the greater part can turn aside their holy zeal for the lesser part, waiting only for phase three. It's the only thing. But here they come shocked and say, "Oh, how much less is terrible, how awful you are!" All we're asking for is to wait for the legal process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u45	Mr. President. Here I come up and don't play wrong because it's a serious situation and society's all on fire. At this convention, there seems to be nothing that the government can do to control the difficult issues involved, either in collective agreements or in the matters discussed here. One more trip came out of the highest court. Secretary of finance had little knowledge and comparison of what was done when several prime options were delayed during the first term and what is taking place today. Is it not true that the directors of all classes here at councils and members of Congress are now in session with professionals from the Environment and Resource Ministry and from project management and just review the rules? Don't you remember doing that instead of arguing about it here like kids in a sandbox? That's what common sense tells you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u46	A respectable president. Yet, it can be said to this government that it succeeds in getting everything involved in its problems. She has stopped the council by indiscriminately and has not understood a frame plan. Guys come up here, last time. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister, and he doesn't know how the framework law is, he has no idea. He now exposes his ignorance of the law, as did many before him. We've said it many times, and we'll say it over and over again, that as soon as the misfortunes, the adjustment of the proposal from the greater part of the employment committee, leaving here, Congress will be successful. I'm willing to give all the record in a number of discussions about the President's conference board, if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u47	V.E.G. President. I come in the same situation as before to express concern about the program, not just in view of how bad it is but also because of the circumstances in the Icelandic labour market. In this room, we are required to take it seriously when ahead are the largest strikes in the history of Iceland. That's no joke, Mr. President. There are very serious consequences, not only economically but also other factors, such as when we talk about the health system that has been half-maded for seven weeks. It's only gonna get worse if it's not even possible to solve the situation with nurses before May 27 of the next. Mr. President. It's six days before the nurses plan to shut down their jobs. So I'm going to ask the highest. A president: If he asks for it at the highest, he will ask for it. Will he report the job market to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u48	President. As one of the representatives of the wicked government stand, I would like to point out that. When he was called after his presence here, the prime minister did not be reached all day. We were talking about what was found to be false from the mouth. Prime Minister, the key to the development of a conversation was to further priming plans that appeared in the modification form of more than a part of the labour board. It's amazing to me. A minister has no more complicated entrance here at the council today than the ones that faced us earlier. I have to say, Mr. President, I don't quite understand the work done at this place. I don't understand the President's procedure. It is known that this case will not continue. I just wanted to ask the council president if the reason for this procedure is because the government has to make time to bring some issues into this council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She has not brought any of her affairs into this council, nothing that really matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u49	V.E.G. President. We are discussing a meeting director because we disagree with the program. We feel that there are other and more urgent tasks that need to be solved to relieve the dam in the council rather than set the box on the schedule day after day. One of the things you had a wish and hope was that we could learn at this council to create a longer-term strategy that would first be discussed at the council, and then they'd work out the strategy for the Commission, i.e. of the highest. Government. That is how the frame came into existence. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has a national budget to try to set up policies for three or four years, so that it can be quoted: Wait, this is the plan. Are they changing it? Why? And that's how you could continue to count. Then there is some basis for discussion. The idea was the same with the Ministry of Education, but that book has never been discussed. Nobody knows what's at the top. The Minister of Education is doing everything around the country. It's burning all over the place, and we have no idea what's happening and no chance to discuss it. [[The president calls.]] It's the kind of work that needs to change, the highest. President. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. President to participate in trying to get us into the form that we have long-term schedules. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u50	A respectable president. It's kind of sad. We have financial and economic ministers here for some reason that they don't like what they say on the part of the government. I think he should give us some information about when the initials are about to be removed, which he's been proclaiming here for a very long time to be here in a few days. That would be desirable. V.E.G. Education minister, as mentioned earlier, has seen to it that it is caused by the high school system while we are standing here and discussing a structured program. No, it's not that we have to dam and drill more. We need to guard the interests of the people of the land and of future generations, our future people. That's our fight. It is our fight for nature that we must guard. V.E.G. The government doesn't seem to be interested in it. Rather, it just wants to drill, dam, and activate as much as possible because it's supposed to create the future incomes. They are now about 1% of national income.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u51	A respectable president. Yesterday there was an interview with a state - of - state club that said that the situation in society is far more extensive and more difficult than just dealing with workers. There would be a very deep problem here. This is where people would be concerned about how the resources could be organized and divided. People were concerned about growing inexorably in the land, and people were concerned about the wars and divisions of an Icelandic community. The government to which the present government was going to remedy the situation, if indicated by its declaration of policy, counteract dissension, and suspicion. The same government is about to have a prime minister who comes here and exposes his inadequacies. He arrives at this critical time and stands here in the chair, on the lowest level of the council hall. He lists talks, shows up a number of discussions, and has a misapprehensive attitude at the opposition of the government. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. The General has a position to set aside for peace and help with society's conditions by delinquency of the adjustment proposal, away from an incompetent prime minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u52	A respectable president. To the extent that it is possible to meet a meeting board and to meet unneeded meetings until the night. I'm particularly sorry that it's as good a speech as it is. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson moved here on account of the advance party for the discussion, for the material and good, to have been moved here tonight when almost none were left in the house, and few could observe from the household. I would suggest to a respectable president that he give a why. A senator's chance to get back to the rosary and bring his case here in daylight because I think it's a good suggestion to make good work and make peace with this case, as we've heard from what we've heard. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - Þór of Þórðarson's son, who has proposed the case, and why. paritaprevir Friðriksson, who now strongly demands that his members of the Independence Party stop and do not so closely with the respect of the Generalis they have chosen to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u53	V.E.G. President. Here are repeated comments made on the program of a respectable president. The third part of the programme is a national protection and energy efficiency programme and are repeatedly made comments on the programme and on the agenda. Today, the standards set out in a structured program are at the same time. A professional health committee has full authority to set the matter up with the suggestions. I can respect a battle spirit. General Assemblymen, but I thought it would be more easy for me to believe that this fight would be carried out under a standard program. Here's where we're gonna make the highest shot. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir, who is ready to discuss housing at the moment. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u54	What? ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u56	Yesterday's president came up with a program proposal, which is as follows: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. Specific discussions of marketing solutions in the fishing field. Adminent is Björt Ólafsdóttir, and to the contrary a seafaring dignitary minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. 3. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 4. Electrical law (systemistical programme, EEA rules), Industrial and Business Directoring, 305 suit, 1005. It's called "System" on deck. 1091 and 1226, respectively. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 5. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, the management of industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392 committees on deck. 973 and 986, leading committees on deck. 1228, continuation of the second. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u57	A respectable president. The reason we make this suggestion is that it is now 45 days since BHM had started strikes that have had a profound impact on health care in the country. Next week, nurses will start strikes, and in two weeks there will be a strike here called the largest strike in Iceland. The government has not put forth any effort to address this issue. She has no idea how to handle the situation, and she is not interested in discussing this matter with us in a Senate Hall. Instead, the country's prime minister claims that the frame is the key to the solution of these differences and is held in a Senate hall, which is then driven by the labour market. Has the highest. Ministers are interested in standing here and discussing it with us? No, he has wished not to do so. This isn't working. [[The president calls.]] We need to discuss these matters, it's all headed in here, and we're offering them by means of this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u58	Mr. President. We voted for a similar proposal yesterday, and a great deal of the council's will was made. If I recall correctly, there were about ten, twelve votes between those who wanted the matter to be on schedule and those who wanted it to be off schedule. Of course, there is no thought of anything other than to delay the Senate service to have this vote paid again. I'm gonna say it like hell. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson did yesterday: We know the outcome of this vote. Those who voted by the continuation of the program are likely to continue, and those who want the matter to be planned will vote for it by deliberating the program, and this will definitely be so that those in the top of the board will support that the matter is on schedule, etc. Why don't I just ask for someone to give the matter up on a material discussion here, and for the sake of being allowed to delay the Senate with votes, discussions about the President's conference board, etc.? The matter must be handled in a material way, and it has nothing to do with a hearty discussion, and it has nothing to do with a hearty discussion of what we are discussing today. [[Up front.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u59	Still a president must be praying. Councilmen to make sounds in the council hall, even after a moment. Congress officials have concluded their case so that at least the president can present those who speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u60	A respectable president. That was interesting. V.E.G. Secretary of finance believes that it is unnecessary to vote for something today because it was voted for yesterday. [[Up front.]] He also believes that he knows the outcome of the vote. Is this the way it is in the government, where the majority of the factors say that the Minister of finance is just coming and predicting the outcome of a vote in which members of Congress are supposed to take their stand? [[Up front.]] Is that how it is? I assume that after another day in this discussion, the generals have reevaluated the situation, and I expect some members of the council to have reevaluate it from yesterday and may even conclude that it is a different conclusion than the community and the General Assembly for the benefit of accepting this discussion and drawing back the adjustment. This is an opportunity, and it will be made to allow members of the members of the board to look at themselves and even go beyond just looking to their leaders in terms of votes here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u61	A respectable president. I think it's the best. The matter is being misunderstood by the secretary of finance. This is not an attempt to delay the job of Congress. These aren't some rhythms being played here, some sort of adroit in the air. [[Up front.]] No, it's not. Me and others here are totally against it, and we're going to express again and again, that the transition from the greater part of the employment committee, to the skiming of professional assessments, to the legal process on how to operate the activations in Iceland, will be discussed here. And I will come up and object against the things that are my right, and from time to time. It's not my will to slow down Congress. It's the President of the Generals who has decided to put this on schedule and I would like us to vote on it every day, if he decides to put it on schedule, because I feel it's absolutely illegal that it's on schedule, that it's being submitted. Think about it. It is being assessed elsewhere, in a legal process, in the task management of a frame plan, whether or not to be activated at these sites. We don't need to, and we're not supposed to talk about it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u62	Mr. President. This vote is natural just to give men the opportunity to make the council's will clear because the president wants to have this matter on the agenda. Then we'll ask the council. The President is not quite 100% counsel on the program. This is the only chance the senators have. So this is what we're doing. It is clear to everyone why we want this subject on the program. It's just steel, of course, steel, but you can cut the knot. On the other hand, we do not have the means that the people of the land can strike this knot, that it can be referred only to the nation. The people would just say no. Then you'd have to be a little more careful in this process. I am not sure that the nation would permanently reject these advantages. But it's not that much of the community in this matter, it's more part of the council, no more part in society, we don't know. We don't know that until we have a constitution that a smaller section of the country, perhaps 10%, can bring to him a case approved by the council. Then I would be willing to take the lawsuit because it would be the nation that could stop the council. That would be the best. But this is all we have available today, and it is also possible that nine members of the Parliament can call for a discussion to be completed. Don't act like you don't have anything in your hands. It's just a bad politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u63	Mr. President. It's very bad on this beautiful day to the highest. The secretary of finance is the jugular. A man would now think that he would come here with joy and try to put something good into it. But we now make this program anew because we trust that members of the Parliament will continue to reevaluate their position in the light of new information. And gradually, there is a delay in understanding the role of framework. Well, that's the point. Of course, we should discuss such matters as a serious job position. This morning's job management committee discussed the serious situation of the workforce, concerns about the situation, and the need to get together so that the consequences will not be too difficult for those involved. I think the highest. Ministers should become involved in this matter rather than act as if it had nothing to do with them and should engage in such a case that has no business to do in this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u64	A respectable president. The reason for this vote is that it is important to give the Generals the opportunity to change their mind from yesterday on. For example, now you have a problem. The members of the administrative sector in the country were informed that in the cover of this discussion, the highest level of selection is involved. A minister of education in the country and a way to school independence far and wide. Do they want to support the continuation of their votes here? Do they want to cancel their own schools in Mountain Hill, the Western Islands, Húsavík, northern Snæfells, just to name just a few? Do they want to limit the possibility of people in the scattered regions to pursue higher education? That's how it works. Education minister uses the flame of fraud, works on these minutes and these hours. Now we've got what. Councilmen in the United States can stop that event by taking it into consideration and giving us the opportunity to discuss what really matters, the serious issues of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u65	President. It's a mistake if someone thinks this vote is going to take place and this discussion to slow down Congress work, so it's not. We're protesting the council program. We're giving voters against this proposal yesterday an opportunity to change their mind. We're giving them a chance to straighten out Congress because the heads of Congress and government officials don't want to. We're giving these people a chance to make things work. But this is probably what the president of the council does not want because it reveals that they are not just stopping a matter of Congress, they are stopping the whole society by inactivity. [[Foreground: You're stopping it.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u66	A respectable president. I'm going to explain it to you in one minute if I can. The smaller part wants to talk about a fight, the more part wants to talk about a frame. The smaller portion is expected to sacrifice a frame plan, but the smaller part wants a larger part to wait only for step 3. The minority must hang here to night--good and good; we do it--the greater part must just wait and be as stubborn as he can be, and he can be very stubborn. The smaller part wants to wait for more data, the more part wants to use old data. The lesser part has always been invited. The members of the greater part need to come here and speak in a talk as soon as possible, always. Three times it has happened, we've always done it, we've never had a disagreement about it. At the same time, the more part is always complaining about our freedom of speech here; to pretend that this situation is because of the bad memory of the object is greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u67	V.E.G. President. I don't like the program today, so I support this program. The situation here in the hall and in the conduct of the directors of the board of directors may be the most clear picture and the explanation of the situation in the Icelandic community of this loss. Who can trust those who act in this way? Instead of going over to what action you're taking, who's talking about, what solutions you're looking for, they're coming up here and they're making a mistake. I'd also like to reiterate my words from yesterday; the majority of the objects here are under the 50% vote of voters, but they have a 60 percent Senate grant. Take good care of that strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u68	V.E.G. President. Here again a program proposal is made to try to change the program. It is heavier than tears when it reaches the highest level. Secretary of finance says: There is no need for votes. It's all been decided. There's a lot of things here, and he says, "Just get your ass home, let's make this decision. What is it called in other lands? It's called monologue. [[Take it up in: democracy.]] - Democracy to decide everything and to blackmail my share? You are now observing the discussions of the European Council and follow comments on the Icelandic elections and other factors where democracy's strength is in the position of government opposition. Maybe it's the best. A pity for the secretary of finance. Of course, he doesn't want to talk about it. He's not doing anything to solve it. That's a worry. But I'm going to point the top. Councilmen say we had a vote yesterday. There are ten ministers in the government and nine of them have a vote. There were only three who participated in the discussion - and voted, the others have been wandering around the world but are finally in the house. Let's just see what they do at the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u69	A respectable president. For 45 days, the government has not been able to reach agreements with the Féla nuclearists, the Fége of Geologists, the Icelandic Naturalist's World Association at the National Hospital, the National Hospital's State Department of State, the County Attorney's Continental Association in the capital area, and the Iceland's Light Hygimency at the Hospital in Akureyri. For 32 days the government has not been able to negotiate with Icelandic naturalists in the Food Institute, the university's Institute for Food and Feeding in the Food Institute and Animal Health. In the following week, nurses will start a strike, the staff will start a strike and strike at a group of automobile companies in hotels, hotels and baths, a drop in flights, shipping companies, food stores, oil companies, and on June 6 will begin an untimely strike, the largest strike in Iceland's history. And representatives of the government come up here and declare they're not interested in this. A respectable president. These men are beyond redemption. How are people going to deal with this? They do not want to discuss it here; nor do they deal with the problem in relation to the situation. [[The president calls.]] Because of the total confusion of society, the government's complete impotence is responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u70	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, The Pirates, wants us to wait. He says the lesser part wants to wait. And this word came to my mind, saying, I waited, and I waited, and I waited. Yes, yes, we in the greater part will wait while the lesser part will talk about this. We have quite some time to give it some space here. Other things I want to say are words. The president of Birt's Future, Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, here. Once again, the noble man is climbing the fact that this is a legal affair. He accuses more of the employment committees of breaking laws. Such accusations are serious, more dignified president. I demand that this repeated comment be adopted on the Council Presidency Committee and on the question. A senator, along with others who claim to be such, will be given a legal opinion that supports this. The legal opinion and memo they've been quoting from the Environment and Resource Ministry is not the document supporting this movement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I've wanted to do it. Congress officials take back these charges while they are unable to back up their shortness of speech in a stronger way than they can be seen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u71	A respectable president. Of course, I say no to this proposal, as in all the last few days. This is beginning to remind you of the votes of the European Union, the proposals are submitted over and over, and they are chosen again and again until the right conclusion is reached. [[Take it up to the bottom of the road.]] A respectable president. In this vote, and in this case, there will be no conclusion that the government will accept or that it will have a victory in this new program. It is unlikely, therefore, that on each day of work this old, worn - out proposal is here at the council's vote, especially because the entire administration site is represented at meetings with members of the council and members of the council and with the presiding committee, where the program is set. [[The president calls.]] This is where they're being brought into the Senate Hall. That won't do any more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u72	V.E.G. President. I say no to this motion of the whatsoever. What an interesting discussion that is! Even more interesting is a fistula I ran into on the Internet from 5, sir. 2012 a.m. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingrimurson wrote about the council and was pledged to be a member of the council, where he tore his views on filing matters. Here, I quote directly into the text where it says: It doesn't work to have an unsatisfactory assembly. One thing that needs to be discussed openly is simply whether it is in any way in behalf of democracy that individual senators can act like this: go up and down into a pit, face it, and speak up again and again. If they did this at home, they would be thrown out. What Has Changed? At the end of this fistula, the senator proposes that the Allied Councilmen's organization be formed against sweeping, short - lived SAA. It suggests that the president of the station found meetings, such as at any other meeting where it is customary. What Has Changed? Would not change Icelandic politics? Wasn't Bjort going to film a better practice? Why does Björt's future play a role in this dispute at a council when these are the opinions of Guðmundur, the son of Steingrímsson, in 2012?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u73	Mr. President. It was a very valuable statement. The secretary of finance gave the following when he said and repeated: What is being discussed here, i.e. Frame plan, has nothing to do with collective agreements. - Don't have anything to do with bargains, said the highest. Secretary of finance. So much for experiments at the highest. Prime Minister to link it. Mr. President. I must admit that it is worse and worse for me to understand why a president so unwisely handles his program, as we see from day to day. It is so completely out of control with circumstances, time, May 21, the situation at the council, that I now do not talk about society's affairs, to continue this senseless death war of change. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and Co. It is the death war of this system of painting that has fallen to the ground. It must be coming up for the highest. President. This is a tragic waste of time that will bring nothing only to create more difficult and difficult conditions at the end of the council. Worst of all, though, there is a standard that this reflects in government and government areas that are losing control of society's situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u74	A respectable president. I just wanted to say that last night this program proposal was chosen and it was dropped. We do well to ask ourselves: " Does the government's position fail to respect the results of that vote? She didn't do it yesterday, went up forever, and went to the President's conference board. At the end of the day, there were only six material discussions on a structure, three in a position of government, and three material discussions from the top of the board. Well, that was everybody. All day long, think about it. [[Up front.]] I wondered, " What are you doing here?'is that we're going to be talking about the job market, which we're worried about. This was discussed in a special discussion the other day, and there is no such request from the government side - I checked the conference office and could not find it. [[Up front.]] Based on the information I have received, no such request has been made. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I think we should finish a frame plan, that we should respect the decision of the council and respect the authority that the President has here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u75	A respectable president. Because of why. paritaprevir It is proper to state that Þórhallsson, Þór of Thorhll, a letter from me and others, would like to receive the highest discussion. Prime Minister on the situation in collective agreements mentioned. Otherwise, there is reason for this speech to be less effective. A senator claims that the greatest miracle that God has given us is a new day. And, fortunately, here at the council, there's always a new day. No matter how much trouble we may make at the council and how much or almost we walk on the honour of the council, each morning we have the opportunity to change it. In this vote, we are now given the suggestions that have come from the past. þm. Guðlaugur saw to it that Þór son of Thord and sent the case back to committees and tried to find a solution there, taking urgent action. þm. Augurs Ásmundur of Friðrk not to go further into this swamp that is of no profit and to try to make peace in this society, rather than work on war every day. [[Set up a schedule.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u76	A respectable president. It's embarrassing to see someone complaining about the need for a vote day after day. [[Up front.]] It has also been shown in the case of government parties that they believe that the 2013 elections were such a turning point that votes hardly need to occur after that great day of glory and that the smaller part should have been packed up and kept slow after that great turning point. It reflects over and over again. We voted yesterday, and we made a vote for the day before yesterday. Why do we have to vote again? Why does the government need to speak, and why does it need to be so much talk? Why does she have to talk like that and talk queer? It's getting really annoying, the contempt of democracy and the contempt of the less part here at the council. A respectable president. I'm asking more than that to give up this conversation. This is a matter of talking and offering suggestions under the cover of current conferences, and it will continue to be done. [[The president calls.]] That's our right, and that's what we're supposed to do. [[The president calls.]] We have an obligation to Iceland, to the voters and to the nature of the country, to use Congress in behalf of this cause. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u77	A respectable president. I'm very grateful that I'm quoted at the assembly. I have been strengthened in my belief that during the council, radical changes need to be made. For example, I think it is very important that the smaller part of Congress receive a word of speech so that things can be handled here in a different direction than this one. I've come up here many times to discuss the President's conference board in an effort to find answers to questions that are in my mind about handling matters at the council but have not yet received them. I have offered some suggestions on how to handle this matter differently. The silence gives an answer. One of the things I've asked for, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, if you're here somewhere, it's that we're just about to sit down and review the legal statistics that we're facing here. I have claimed that this is a violation of the law. What, though, is this vote in my mind? It's about the fact that there's a waterfall called "Curfyrus" and it's in the lower part of Turbulence. Whether the salmon strain in it will survive the activations is a major matter of opinion. [[The president calls.]] I want nature to enjoy the doubt. That big ideal is about this vote now. That's what it's all about, not to delay the council. Should nature enjoy the doubt or not? Ask yourselves that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u78	A respectable president. I just want to be clear about what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson that what I meant before because the memory part wanted to wait is that he wants to wait for the career that the law expects to take place in order to get the information needed to settle the matter. [[Up front.]] We're discussing the program on which we have a subject called a national protection and energy efficiency programme. [[We're discussing the transition.]] We're discussing the program, a respectable president. [[..of the council.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president asks for a sound in the hall.]] [[We're discussing the vote.]] A respectable president. I have to say, I'm starting to feel no matter what. 2.m. Reykv.. As a s., it seems to be a matter of material discussion and what it is not. It's very clear that there are certain data that I've explained who is so that the process might be settled. That's what this is all about. That's what this is all about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u79	A respectable president. I come up here because many senators have chosen to come up here, and also the highest. Prime Minister, especially one of the presidents of Birt's future, huh? paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, and his attitude on these matters. I share in many of his doubts about the terms of Congress today, but it is not possible to ask members of the council to give up the Constitutional rights or instruments they have in the Senate to protect themselves from violence. We can totally turn the case on the other side. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his associates in the greater part of the employment committee would have thought of making a change in the proposal for activation in Gold Falls, should we have let her walk here for a discussion? [[Gold Falls is...]] If that had been more of a part of the conference room, should we have just lay down and quit? Of course, it is only natural to take to heart the tools we have to point to the fact that this proposal does not match shape, does not measure up to the code, and therefore has serious defects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u80	Mr. President. Like I say again and again, we're offering what. Congress members are expected to reexamine their minds. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson continues to cut down the same knee with no logical reasoning that this route is currently unrecognizable, an adjustment in the motion of a large part of the course. The job committee, and there is no lack of evidence on our part that has criticized this mountain - road route far from the process to be done. What, though, does the organization reveal? [[For example, consider the following: Material discussion.]] That these proposals make more part of the employment committee are completely illogical. They're a lot short of reasoning. That's the best. The government's not going to take care of that. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson upsets all Congress, just proving to be the highest. A government is incompetent, chief. Prime Minister, and either a person begins to do something about it or to resign. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u81	President. Some nut. A senator once said it was an old proposal that we were voting on. That's not true. That proposal was born yesterday, and that's a young proposal. She may be old by Thursday or Thursday after. Then I'll agree that she's old. But she'll be moved until a large part of the employment committee goes out of here. Although I will be alone, I intend to stand here protesting and protest, and when a respectable president prays. þm. Guðmundur Steingfímsson to come and explain his language and his interpretation of the framework, I would like to be included because I wholeheartedly agree with the interpretation made there. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] All other treatments are illegal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u82	A respectable president. Now we've got a what? The chairman of the Conspiracy adds to the group that claims that there is a violation of law, that we are violating the law of our case and proposal. Hv. A senator is a lawyer, and I encourage him to look more closely in the review of the Environment Ministry, which is the only thing mentioned here as a legal solution to confirm that statement. There is no way to read from that memo except that we are in full right with what we are doing here, for there is no big difference between that and what was done during the last term. We did not agree there that the council, or minister, was violating their procedure. It was totally under law. A majority of the council changed the order of activation options, taking six priming options from so - called specialists, project management, and professional groups, and assigned them to a waiting party. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Now we are on the same basis on the basis of reports that we have been given of the change in our proposal to bring certain activation options to a novelty party. It stands absolutely against laws, such as the previous treatment, and we will stick to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u83	Mr. President. There is a reason why we want to talk, among other things. It was shown by the highest. On May 19, with the permission of the president, prime minister must look at the outcome for those in our districts because they must adapt the way of the State to what comes out of it. As a result, it is impossible for a respectable president to declare in advance that unless someone is seen in the country, the action or introduction of the government will be in a position not to know what the parties agree. In that case, even an addition from the government can add to the potential negative effects of collective agreements. This is made clear that the U.S. Convention Committee does not have any authority, and in view of the fact that there is no greater than this 3% or whatever it is now known is not a basis for which to settle. We've got financial and economic secretary's work to do. We don't have to vote here. Where are the bills for the execution of the police, the honorable president and the highest? Financial and economic ministers? [[Up front.]] That's why we want to talk here about other issues that agree with what I was here to explain, including The chicken business. [[The president calls.]] It must weigh a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u84	Mr. President. This is clearly born an additional reason for rescuing the political part from its disaster and into the country by taking this matter off the program. The government's nerves are breaking down, as we'll be very alert. V.E.G. The minister of finance is unusually clever, not to mention the problem. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It is not to be joined here in the conference hall, screaming out in every speech. [[Up front.]] [[Foreground: I'm here.]] It's about to become a humane matter to save the management team from this by taking it off. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This isn't working. I think the highest. A president who is open - minded and experienced must see that by taking steps, cutting down this knot, and risking this nonsense, he will grow to respect it very much, for he is under no obligation to be innocent of the case after having allowed his decision to take place here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u85	V.E.G. President. I agree with the last speaker, but I think it is important to put this matter off the program on a committee and discuss it more fully there. It is becoming increasingly apparent, including the question of both. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, director of the professional trade committee, quoted here in papers, explained that there was only one suggestion to be made. What does the report say as evidence of this? [[The point is: It's very clear.]] That's very clear. That's because there was no one else ready for payment. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] The call had been made for a decision - we're talking about now and no violence to get it going. Let's take this up to a committee, get legal decisions on the legal matters discussed here, and then try to get the information on people's current social events, both those in a more delicate position and they're already causing serious damage. [[The president calls.]] There's cooking all over the country, and it's really urgent that we get a chance to talk about it. There may be reasons why the president would like to have this on the program, so that is in the case of the government's request to avoid discussing the other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u86	President. There seems to be some sort of absolute relief between the government's administrations. One day, they say the best. Prime Minister that these priming options must be suspended in use to resolve parley issues. V.E.G. The secretary of finance then says today that these issues have nothing to do with quarreling. It would be nice to decide which of them will be in these opinions. It is important for the public to get this straight, for it is clear that all of them are the highest. The prime minister indicated that he had put pressure on the usefulness of this assignment, but he did not recognize that it was a requirement for solving a conflict. I think it's a serious matter to have such an important thing in the flashing of the nation's top commanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u87	A respectable president. We are here votes for the proposed reduction of the object, which is designed to do what can be done to restore the level of work at the Council and to create some kind of balance. We suggest that Jón the son of Gunnarsson and his partner make a retraction, that the program be decompositioned, and that there be a Minister's original proposal for discussion here and discussion. We are making a contribution to the council to add to the scales in order to at least show an effort to be at peace in a peace - at - war society and where the prime minister is an independent problem in which all he has to do with war.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u88	A respectable president. What is this program proposal about? It is about our wanting to talk to the prime minister about a serious job position. What is that situation? It is that there are groups of public employees, including In health care, for 45 days there have been a strike in which the government has managed to straighten matters out. It was reported today that in April there had been an increase in the income of tourists by 15%. Travellers shoped for 9.3 billion in Iceland. With the same continuation, no income comes from these sources in June, none. There will be no 15% increase. There will be no 9 billion, or more, because the government is restricted to dealing with the problems at work. That is why she does not want to discuss it here, so when we do it the way we're bothering them, it gets old. Of course, it is difficult to take up a discussion about a position that is beyond your control.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u89	A respectable president. Perhaps the more part manages to cope with the council, with all kinds of legal reversals, vocabulary practices, and questionable interpretations, with unprecedented changes between debates, that it will be applied to the Scorpio century and the lower part of the Red Sea. We don't know what's going to happen to the salmon stock in the lower part of Tues. So we don't know how the lines affect the central highlands and roads, by the Cradle, that's not been appreciated. [[It'll be in the ground, just so you can figure it out.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u90	It doesn't have to...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u91	[[The president calls.]] I ask conscience questions, anything but why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson: Is this how you want to do this? [[The president calls.]] Do you want it to be activated this way? Don't you want these questions answered and nature to have the doubt? [[The president calls.]] That's what this motion is about, and I'll say yes to it. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u92	The president doesn't think he's asking much, that he gets a sound to present himself. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u93	A respectable president. I think it is important that, based on these findings, the majority of the Generals have decided not to discuss the position in a labour market - the proposal is that we discuss the vacancy at the labour market - rather than a frame plan. The theory that the least part of a council doesn't do what it takes to pay for Congress is nonsense. We are to take this matter off the program and discuss what needs to be discussed in the community. The minority has decided not to do so, making a very conscious decision about it, and this table shows this. It is not only a respectable president who treats the conference board; it is the greater part of the council that has all its power against this nation and this country. There's a rice going on, and it's the duty of this council to respond to it. The General has decided not to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u94	V.E.G. President. I say yes to this vote on the program because I want a frame plan to go to a committee and further review before we continue our discussion at the council. But it seems to me that by looking at the red lights on the walls to the top of the board, we're going to choose the conflict and avoid the popular language that burns most in the Icelandic community, which are the strikes. In this context, it is also interesting that we are on the second day in a row trying to change our schedule and discuss taking a frame plan off, while the original artist, the highest. Secretary Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, wasn't at the vote yesterday and is not at the vote today, so those who know best to avoid coming here and saying what they think? And there was a person who had the argument and presented it, that there was one activation ready for release, and no one else. That gives me a lot of thought, and there must be a clear message. [[The president calls.]] I'm saying yes, because I want a frame plan to be decommissioned and that we're going to take the pop and the most important thing in this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u95	V.E.G. President. Although this isn't the part about President's conference board, I'd like to thank the highest degree. A president for the great calmness he shows here at the command of a difficult meeting. Of course, I support this program and express concern about yet another trip that the situation in the labour market does not give the government any basis for talking to the council and telling us what the government intends to do, wishes for cooperation, and seeks solutions. This is not the only reason why I support the program proposal, for I am opposed to the subject under consideration, but this is a very serious situation, and it must be resolved. However, holding this matter on a schedule will only lead the council to an even greater failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u96	A respectable president. How sad it is to see the greater part of the Council prefer to refuse to consider the seriousness of the situation, the situation in a workforce that would be an urgent reason. It is also important for the nation to see that members of the administrative body refuse the opportunity to discuss the high school situation where a minister of education goes through high school, such as a locust epidemic, and the guillotine across high schools far and wide. The opportunity to educate will be impaired in the next few weeks because of the highest level of action. A minister of education, and there is no desire on the part of the government to discuss the matter at the Assembly Hall. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no desire on the part of the government to discuss that approach. I can see why. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson, a member of the North-Currieth District, surely he finds it difficult to remain in his seat under this discussion because the entry of the Ministry of Education is particularly directed toward small schools in his district, but it is sad to see that he does not even lift a little finger to hold back from the Ministry of Education on the subject. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Take it up: right.]] [[I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, but I don't know, I don't ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u97	This is going to be an intolerable situation. There's not enough left to go around. In fact, when it comes to the matter, the members of the council are in the front of speeches, and the president has generally been tolerant. Rather, members of the Parliament are in disharmony and almost quarreling. Parliamentaries give talks. It's not acceptable, not what. Councilmen who speak or council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u98	A respectable president. I'm going to say yes to this proposal, and I'm going to try to do what I can to get this council back into the functioning condition, if it might be called, because as soon as the disaster, mismanagement, campaigns, or what we call the proposal from a larger part of the employment board, all here will fall into a relatively sweet sheets, at least to a material debate about the ultimate proposal. former environmental minister who has been called upon to ignore...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u99	The president wants to draw attention to the fact that the clock has been in bad shape. She's okay now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u100	Yeah, I'm done. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u101	A respectable president. I say no like I did yesterday. It's a little special that they're voting on this here again. I understand where the government is, so they want to talk about the job market, but I came up here earlier and pointed out that there was no request for an outside discussion. [[Up front.]] That's how it is, there's no request for an outside discussion. However, the previous day a request for an oral report was made, which is different, but I have somehow understood in the case of the government opposition that the request has been made for a long time. It is perfectly normal for the presidents of Congress to discuss this with the president and the secretary of finance. [[Up front.]] I can only imagine the request taken into consideration in the order of which, of course, we need to apply in the extracurricular discussions and other matters. While we're here to discuss the box, we'll finish it, we'll vote, and then we'll put some important stuff to work. It's all stopped because there's some bullshit talk going on. [[Up front.]] [[Does the president still have to repeat his words from earlier?]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u102	The President is sorry to interrupt this important conversation in the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u103	Mr. President. I say yes to this proposal because I would like to discuss this workforce report as much as we do. The members of my body had requested. I'd love to hear both the tops. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance how they believe that the Council and the Commission can solve their agreements before everything goes into the fire and the bar. The two administrations of the highest. There have been many ways of being a minister. It is time for a democratic debate at the council on these matters. V.E.G. The minister of finance has suggested that the strike rights and the highest degree should be reviewed. The prime minister has spoken in terms of this unfortunate proposal to change the frame plan as some entry into the collective agreements. We're here to take this discussion. We owe it to those who are in a serious strike to be taken seriously and discussed at the council and to be released from these pressures. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're under a curse. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and hostage with this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u104	A respectable president. The reason we work so hard here in the smaller parts of the programme is that if it's okay to make decisions about activation options that have not been submitted to be moved between groups of projects in this way, it's not just about these three activation options, but about the decision of future activation initiatives. So this is all about all the falls of the country and all possible priming ideas that exist. If it's okay to place these three additional options, in turn, more part of the employment committee, in this way into a novelty party, it's okay to put all the ideas, all the falls of the country, into a novelty party. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u105	...read...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u106	This case, a respectable president, is all over the falls of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u107	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. In view of what depends on our request for the adjustment of the program arrangement, I would like to reflect on it as a woman in a budget board, where the value balance is at the highest level. Government. What are the costs of such strikes even now in the health of people and in the financial support of all well - being institutions, including those in the United States? in view of the long strike by radioists and others? The social cost is becoming priceless, far more than ever money. The members of the greater part of the work committee ever get out of the priming skills they would like to suggest to be assigned to a colony.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u108	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of a conference is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than it is recommended today. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president? Yeah. Then there is a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u109	A respectable president. There is a grammatical proposal for continuing this matter at the General Assembly. We are ready to go to a vote on the proposal that will be discussed in a great fight, as it came from the highest level of war. it's interesting that he has not been seen here in Parliaments since the management team of the management committee. This proposal is on the table. There's no need to do any evening or night meetings because there's no war on the government side of the Senate. We want to work in perfect peace and harmony with our government. However, we cannot accept the abuse of power that is manifested by the peeling of more parts of the workplace and the way it goes completely wrong in legal matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u110	Mr. President. I think the highest. The president is well aware, like the rest of us here, that this discussion is very negative, and further discussion about the issues that are planned at night, as we had here last night. And until the night, there is no great purpose. What would be the right thing to do would be to sit down and see how you can get some reconciliation ahead of you instead of going to this traditional contest that is always justified by the same thing, that it was always this way. But the highest. The prime minister has spoken of changes in the affairs of Congress and Congress. I have supported him in this discussion. I don't think this suggestion from a respectable president is designed to change anything in the Senate or to create a upbuilding discussion. That's why I vote against her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u111	A respectable president. I would be delighted that a longer conference would be held if we were discussing the job market; 65 yous. you are about to have a strike within two weeks. It's a worthy subject, something that everyone in this room could have one hand to discuss. The discussion on this subject will not further the council, much less or more. It's too much between us. That's why I don't approve of holding this meeting. I'll vote against it as I did yesterday. I'm sorry that men are not prepared to sit down and discuss the issues that there is hope for a solidarity to be held here at the council, and they are much more urgent than adjustments. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u112	A respectable president. Every time. A member of the Management Board has asked to speak up earlier. I have felt that these discussions were the best, and I could specifically mention several members of the greater part who have given excellent talks here, very objective and informative, and a discussion of these talks has been a good one. What these talks usually mean is that they happen very late, and last night they actually went on after midnight. In that case, people are tired, and few in the area are understood. For one thing, I think for the reasons I think we should rather try to have discussions with the management team as soon as possible today. There's no manager at the rosary until the 17th seat, reminds me, or about. For one thing, I vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u113	A respectable president. In view of the problem. Gunnarsson This morning, from this chair and also out in the hall, because of instructions that this process wasn't legal, I want to take only what he's putting up with, text from the environmental and resource sources, which specifically says, by permission of the president: [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the Environment and Resource Ministry's assessment of the law of No. 48/2011 doesn't expect the Council to...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u114	The president is calling attention to the fact that this is not a discussion of the length of a meeting meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u115	A respectable president. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is given a lot of going out in the hall, as well as in the public talk on this subject, so I allow me to read what he is putting up with. ▪... can change the class of these costs as the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. [[The president calls.]] It's because of what they're calling a long meeting because they're going to go against the opinion they're reading here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u116	A respectable president. Yesterday we had a meeting with members of Congress on our behalf, and nothing happened. It did not slow down in the discussion of a frame plan, unfortunately. I wanted to direct the president that as long as there's nothing to do with the government and government opposition to the matter's solution, it is not advisable to have a night meeting that is to go deeper into the pits. That's what's happening, executives are becoming extremely hardened. This makes matters more and more difficult as these days move forward, and we draw away from some sort of solution. I challenge the president, if it turns out he's not allowed to use it either, trying to achieve some conversation as a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u117	A respectable president. Of course, I'm ready to discuss this important matter tonight, but I don't quite understand the members of this section that are not prepared to discuss this important matter tonight. They have used every opportunity here from the platform and from the council seats to discuss this important matter, whether it has been on or not. But then when it comes to talking about it tonight, no, it's Euroviation, then suddenly it's more important to sit around and watch Eurostion than to talk it over and finish it and make something work, make some performances on this town.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u118	Mr. President. That's exactly what you're looking at. paritaprevir Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's, of course, has made a grand mistake here at the council. Of course, it is perfectly inappropriate for the council to sit here and argue when the nation is going to unite in front of Euroviion tonight and for no reason to continue these unnecessary discussions during the time being at least, even though there may be reason for a discussion at the end of that national event and perhaps all reason to do so. Of course, it would be more necessary to try to discuss some issues that can be held together, looking for progress, and being able to promote peace and harmony in society rather than continue this confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u119	V.E.G. President. It will not speed up the matter of extending a meeting, the discussion will not be concluded sooner, it will not be over. It's that simple. But humans can do whatever they want. I'm not praying not to keep this watch. For example, I'm going to point to case No. 4, that's a case that came into this council a terrible job. It was sent back, it was corrected and is coming back in. We're ready to take that down. And if we don't make the point, we're going to warn when people are going through the rut, and we're going to say, "We're going to go into power, we're going to go back to the game, we're going to go ahead, we're going to get on with this plan, and we're going to plan on setting things up in this way, but then we're going to do what's coming here, which is a delay in the implementation of nature protection, once a whole year has passed, and we haven't been able to do it. Is there any clearer message about nature's protection? The protection laws of nature are to be suspended, but they are to continue in activation. Isn't there any reason to discuss this properly if they want it, but I don't think it's reason to do it at night. We'd better do it in daylight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u120	A respectable president. I know it doesn't have to be told to a respectable president that it's totally useless to continue this unless this knot is cut down here at the council. And having an evening meeting, I don't think it's my job to be here at night if it's necessary but there's nothing to do with a late meeting on this matter. It kind of reminds me of the fact that kids are left behind, and people think they're having some kind of an effect on them. I can tell a respectable president that even if he has met until 4:00, I'll be back tomorrow. I'm not gonna be told. This is a violation of a frame plan, and it must be taken back so that peace can be achieved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u121	Mr. President. It's probably staying here tonight and then evening after night, just like we've been doing. This in itself will bring no relief to this issue unless one may think that it can tire of the smaller section. It's all right to sit here at a councilroom and read how people in the workforce would like to create long-term frames around the successful agreements and the things I've been doing and keeping this case real here, since the president always wants to put it back on schedule. The smaller part can just stop it by always sitting here. And that is probably what it is to continue to do. Why? Yes, because if this case is brought forward and it will be agreed on by the greater part it will be, there is a legal uncertainty as to whether there is a law code on long-term energy efficiency policies. That's bad. That's very clear in the McKinsey report in Iceland, pp. 85, to get the economy going, we need a long-term policy development that is badly lacking here, not in other parts of the North. That's made clear. So it's worth it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u122	President. As everyone knows, there is a terrible situation in society, and I wish that all of us senators could find a way to put it first. The only way to do this is to postpone the matter. Seriously, is this the top issue of the government? It appears that this is the government issue, and all members of the board are priorities in this council when there is a serious problem in society. I beg you, members of the Management Board, to call for us to find ways to get out of this mess, as is the case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u123	A respectable president. I hope to the highest. The president will not be reinvigorated by panel members of the side halls to attack the bell under my case at the highest level. A president makes obvious differences in the people who receive that privilege. A respectable president. During a long meeting tonight, people will continue to discuss what the Environment and Resource Ministry has called subterfuge. By permission of the president, I reason with their own words: Therefore, the Environment and Resource Ministry's assessment of the law of No. 48/2011 does not assume that the Council can change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. So many are words. On this matter, the president of the United States feels that it is normal to invite a meeting into the night. It is only natural to wonder why this is done. That is because a person is going to shun the law of the night because it can't cope with daylight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u124	Mr. President. I vote against night meeting. I don't think it's right for me to set up an evening meeting when this currently unsolved gastrointestinal indentation has not been resolved. I looked out the window earlier, and it was getting snowy, and I thought it drew a lot of conditions here in a Senate hall. It's wintertime. Ice age in here. Somehow the sun must come in, and it is. More than part of the effort to do so, try to talk about the conditions that have become here. There must be a requirement for a person to settle down and try to solve this problem. I have respect for a respectable president, and I trust that he will try to use himself in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u125	Mr. President. I vote against this proposal for a night meeting, but I don't think it's a reason to have it while a very small negotiation occurs amongst the management of more things and smaller things. I can say with what. A senator mentioned earlier, this morning, you woke up in a hailstorm, then a snowstorm, perhaps describing a bit of the situation that is going to be in here, kind of cold. I want to say something. The head of the council of the Left Green Svandís of Svavarsdóttir... of the fact that if a president does not take the initiative to resolve these cases between government and government opposition, he is expected to be very ill at the subject in the ahead, unfortunately. As the days pass and there is no attempt to communicate, it is clear that people are less hardened and willing to see some aspect of cooperation and solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u126	Mr. President. I'll vote against having a night meeting, and the president will see it as much as any man here in the councilroom that we have a real problem. This is where the steel meets, and things get worse every day. It is not to fix the situation when the executives of the administrations arrive here and pour oil on the fire, and I would like to ask the president to step in and take into consideration the success of the International Assembly meeting, which has been done so far, to set up a program of matters requiring discussion and to put this great issue aside because, while it is scheduled, we will have this problem. I'm counting on a president. I'm gonna ask him to sort out the knot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u127	A respectable president. I realize that the President is in a lot of trouble, but that is exactly what we see here as we think outside the box. That's why I hate the fact that the president is like the one on the Autopilot with the fact that under these circumstances, when men are steeled, what happens then, yes, he goes to an evening meeting. I realize this is one of the devices in the old toolbox of all time, but it's not a solution now. This is to harden the knot even more. I'd like to ask a respectable president to consider in very good terms the source will be used because I realize that it is more likely than it is that the greater part will vote with a long evening meeting, but it will be sad to make the problem even more difficult and bring the real solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u128	A respectable president. I'd like to first say that no one needs to be surprised if it now snows in the latter part of May. It has been quite tragic since that government began its land some two years ago, as everyone knows. I want this proposal for the length of a conference to say that it disappoints me because I thought yesterday there were hopes that people might resolve the knot here and get some kind of hearty conversation over the council and the rest and the many important issues on the program. I just want to say that it is entirely the responsibility of the greater part of the council, which is, of course, the representative of my segment of voters so that it is stressed that the conversation has not continued. It will not be to increase the likelihood of having a night meeting, and I will challenge my challenge to President that we do not have a meeting during national events at this point tonight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u129	Mr. President. Once again, I repeat that I feel that it is not right to have an evening meeting in this situation. A government that uses its authority in this way has become fearful of its position. That's what's happening, the present rulers are not sure enough of their status. They feel a lot of criticism from the legitimate society of people and do not respond to it unless they put their heads under as if no one was tomorrow. Somehow, people must show that they are their jobs and have come into power because they are entrusted with solving matters not only with their voters but also with their voters and members of the council. [[The president calls.]] That's how it's going to be. Mr President is about to start thinking and apply himself in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u130	Mr. President. I'd like the others who have spoken and reiterate my plea that at least a president would not use the source he'll soon receive and that he'll show up for conversation and cooperation, as the government's Treaty shows. I'd like to ask one question to the highest level. A president with regard to the minister's presence during the discussion. As the Environment Minister is under way, I'd like to ask who will continue to follow this case from the highest level. Government. The matter seems to be their main concern, and it is of utmost importance that we can have perplexing conversations with the government's pre-laws, which then emphasize the matter. I would like to ask if the president expects a minister to attend the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u131	V.E.G. President. I want to challenge the highest. A president meeting with the presidents of the political parties and reviewing whether we cannot unite in the policy of the government, which is as follows, by permission of the president. The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. It would be desirable for us to be working on it, and we will offer our support, the government's possession, which needs to be discussed. And it would be no worse if, at the same meeting, in the Treaty of the current government covenant, the president's permission: The workforce's development and future development will be far more at peace with the partners of the labour market. This is what we're asking for. But the biggest problem seems to be that if we think of supporting the government for any created thing, it will run away. [[The president calls.]] There's no need for a night meeting to speed up the council. Meetings are needed to settle matters. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u132	A respectable president. I vote against this proposal because people are going to give it a little stress to discussing the government's cut on the law on a frame plan. If people were going to be talking about the crisis at the national hospital because of strikes, if people were going to talk to tourists, we'd have a serious problem with the current strike and because of planned strike strikes, I'd be willing to stand here and talk to men until night. But under these circumstances, a respectable president, there is no point in having an evening meeting. It is now reported in the news that large groups of foreign tourists have begun to book trips to the country. It is anticipated that a strike will end a book. What will this do for the nation's largest and most growing income? [[Up front.]] What does the government suggest in the effort to resolve this issue? [[The president calls.]] We have suggested that a meeting be arranged for a discussion on this subject, where there is room for opinions and suggestions. It has been refused. That's why I'm turning down a night meeting. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u133	Mr. President. I say no at night meeting. Now there is always clear and clear evidence that power abuse is on the move. The head of the trade board, Jón Gunnarsson's son. This must be seen by the people, and we who work here at the Council must submit to this abuse of power and pride. That's sad. Has the situation become that way. A general assembly that someone outside needs to come to break up this situation? Are we required to get state paramours to break things up? I'm just asking. Or the chief secretary of the United Nations? [[Up front.]] It's getting very serious, and it's not going to be possible to feel. And we're not giving up, senators of the government opposition. [[The president calls.]] It's pouring in our blood, and we don't give up when it's time to destroy Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u134	Mr. President. Most kindly, I ask the President not to take advantage of this warrant he received by the votes of the government. It is not to the point of continuing to do so, it is not for the better of nature, and I doubt that it is for the prole. I ask a respectable president to consider it very carefully below, as the program continues and begins to pass by during the day, not to take advantage of this request. I think we should use the day. I'm counting on the highest. That's what the President does, bid to meet with the presidents and members of the Parliament and try to find an agreement and agreement on this matter. It is not clear that we have three days next week - the fourth is the kitchen day, and so is tomorrow and the rest of our day - based on the yet future issues. I don't think it's possible to do that, and that's why I think it's important to discuss this with officers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u135	A respectable president. Neither this council nor nation have anything to do with any longer convocations today. There's a general warrant for that. 8 That should do it. The problem, however, is that we need to discuss a great deal of the President's conference manager. It's a terrible thing, as hopefully the word is famous. What we should do is create a special case, a report, or something, where we will discuss the President's conference board and the work plan here at the General Assembly for a complete discussion. There, they would have plenty of time to say what they think of them in general, how the work here is fully countering, etc. I think that could be upbuilding. Surely I would like to discuss it well into the night, despite Euroviation tonight - don't tell my fiancée that I said it. I'm going to vote against this proposal because it's unnecessary and here's the wrong thing to do. There's so many other things we could be talking about, and there'd be a lot more for us to have a night meeting here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u136	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss the President's conference board, which turns on how I don't feel right. The president chooses when he will take the bell into his own hands and strike it safely. It can't be done that way, when some stamping is formed here in the side halls for booing some speaker down, choosing the time with his companions to start hitting the bell. I don't think it's appropriate. Either the president follows the rules, the same guidelines for everyone or no one. It was simply so that I was speaking my case about the vote and giving a vote, reasoning on the subject of a discussion on the subject on the program. It was totally inappropriate for a president not to give me a chance to give the speech. Rather, it was standing right behind me pushing the bell excessively. I have to say this because I felt that I was having a bad time in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u137	Mr. President. So long may the lentil so that it bites, and I'm going to continue to sharpen it. A president to intervene in this situation. The schedule that is available is unacceptable, and humans must start sitting down and reviewing the situation. The same program cannot continue without taking into account a minority of members of Parliament who stand together, and there is no break in it. This great agreement that there is a subject on a program that should not be on a program as planned should be shown to a president - who is the president of all of us, and he must not forget - that he must not fall into some political party choice. We're supposed to be able to trust a president to intervene, and I'm going to make that claim to the highest level. That's what a president is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u138	A respectable president. It's already been a while. I haven't done it yet, but I haven't been watching what's being complained about the bell; I just haven't noticed, saying neither of it, nor about it. On the other hand, I feel that protesting as one shot is worth the effort. A senator at the Senate Hall said that this alleged form of injudgment was unconvinced. In addition, we live at a convention where a dignified president whom I respect has great respect for. 2.m. Witchest. For the Independence Party and the Excelsior. Minister of the Independence Party. He is a member of the board, and when it is such a wonder that people think about him and comment on it when they believe that a dignified president has the government on his side. It would be foolish to think that this would be something different, a respectable president, with perfect respect. The only way to avoid this kind of talk is to think that the President is not part of the government team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u139	A respectable president. I can testify as chairman of a council group that the president has endeavored to perform his role as president of the entire council and all members of Congress, but all can make mistakes. It is inevitable to comment on the fact that the president had to use the bell at the end of a vote when a senator was seeking material arguments in his discussion to support his argument as to why he would violate the proposal that was coming to a vote. Of course, there has never been a disagreement about the fact that members of the council can get material reasons to argue why they are in some way paying votes. I don't know that presidents have limited that legal rights to members of Congress before and feel that it's the most reasonable thing to assume that this is a good thing to do. A lot can happen here in the heat of the game, especially when the situation is the way it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u140	The president would like to state that he does not beg for criticism; in general, he accepts it just as well. The president has tried to fulfill his role as best he can. Of course, he may make mistakes. On the other hand, the president felt that the above - quoted speech had somehow crossed the framework of what we were discussing, but of course the president is not infallible in that regard, so he is subject to criticism as everyone else did.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u141	President. What we need to do here is retract the adjustment of the proposal of the majority of the employment committee. This will allow us to continue and complete a discussion about the proposal by the Environment Minister to deliver a waiting category of action. The changes made by more than one part of the employment committee are unacceptable. They're totally unacceptable. [[Up front.]] I wish to explain my views without delay. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is complaining right next to the speaker's office. It's completely annoying, and it's not just a forward call, it's always down from the smoldering tone of the oar. A senator, so I've decided not to finish my speech because I can't do it before. paritaprevir Last night, Gunnarsson's Jón, who was standing here in the hall and continuing to lecture them after he arrived from the platform, and during conversation with men when they leave the platform. [[The president calls.]] It's a masquerade, completely inaccessible and incomprehensible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u142	A respectable president. Now, I think everyone sees that this place has become a mess and the conduct and behavior of the chamber has taken out the whole series of thieves. I must tell you in my place that there are new hills, this performance, when it comes to the chairman of the council who has shown tremendous and extraordinary patience on the President's throne, despite the constant shouts and nyrkutations, and how the program for the President's conference board has been abused, not just for days, but for days, and even weeks, that I now do not speak of what the Senate has been like. So I think maybe before they begin to attack the council president, who seems to be about to be on his way, we should look at ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u143	A respectable president. It is still noted in lunch reports that the European Union of Iceland has no trust in the government and that labour market warfare is almost unprecedented by state war. So I think it's very important that, while we're here in a sort of freckle-adolition, we try to find some way to solve the matter for the General Assembly, that we don't let the freckles and their followers bring down the work that is assigned to us by the voters and that we should do a good job in behalf of democracy. That is why I would like to direct it to a respectable president to ensure that a meeting will soon be held with members of the House to review that position and to try to see the country in some way and not to let the constant gang members of the freckles confuse all of us, despite the urgency of the situation. þm. Jón Gunnarsson is speaking here in no uncertain terms whether he is in a public chair or not, not letting him interrupt us and try to find a solution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u144	V.E.G. The secretary of finance is pity, he has been in the hall naturally but little. What I did earlier was to carry my hand to my head or to my ears after a great bell sound that I experienced because of the misunderstanding of a president, as he has said. A respectable president. Today's media reports that groups are reporting trips to Iceland during our largest tourist season. It is anticipated that this will be the time when the book will be canceled or will not look to Iceland when it is time to book a trip. I think it's serious. The more important thing to me is that we have a government in this country, we have members of the Future Party and the Independence Party who seem not to be concerned about it and do not seem to think that these strikes will have any meaningful effect on Icelandic society, considering their lack of interest in discussing the serious position in the Congress Hall. They avoid it day after day, even though it is offered by a program proposal, the conscience of each member of the council is offered the opportunity to vote with such a speech, to handle the matter, but it is refused over and over again. I find the situation serious, Mr. President, and I hope that a respectable president will begin calling men to meet and attract their attention to this serious situation and the role of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u145	A respectable president. I want to thank a respectable president for his reaction to what I told him earlier. I consider a more dignified president to respond, in contrast with the highest. A secretary of finance, who simply responds by being offended and, in effect, shocked by the criticism of the practicality of a respectable president, whether on the basis of mistakes or on the basis of any particular group or what. There's no attack on the President. What I said in my speech was a perfectly grammatical gesture as to how the Council works. It's something I've complained a lot about, that we don't take enough into consideration. There is no way for a respectable president to sit. There's no follow-up. There is only a clue to how things work and as long as they work this way, it is the flaw that a respectable president has to subject himself to possible criticism. A respectful president responds correctly and actually corrects the highest. Minister. There's nothing shocking about what was said here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u146	A respectable president. I believe the president has become aware that this case is all in the worst cause, and peace is completely out of this council hall, and it will remain until the failure of a large part of the employment committee is brought back. We're ready to go. We've been told several times here, we're ready to discuss the proposal of a environmental minister and a discussion about what became on the job committee. I'm gonna wait to the highest. President: release a respectable president from this evil case and the bad state of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u147	Mr. President. This was shown in the votes earlier. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers of this government don't want to discuss the chicken business. The message to the employee is empty: You cause inflation, so we can't do anything to increase the minimum wage. We're not going to play any games. It is in this matter as it is in many others. A respectable president. In view of what we're talking about and what we're supposed to do today, about the President's conference board, it would have been interesting that this was in a report from the highest level. The results of the strike for the national project were evaluated by the requested prime minister. There's been a lot of talk about inflation and stability. It's not found in our society today, and it's not looking for it, unfortunately, but it's a lot of instability and it costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u148	A respectable president. I think I must formally ask the president to respond to my wish that we try, away from the situation here, to coordinate the lines of those who are therapeutic at the council and those who want to pass the council as much as possible and to adjust the structure of a frame plan will enjoy the doubt and that the natural nature of Iceland will have the doubt and will contribute to harmony and balance in the community debate. There are a considerable number of people who feel that way and not only in the government position but also in the board of directors. It is my desire, when I am convinced, of the majority of the council to unite strings and save the council from the misfortunes we are about to face in the present season. I would like to ask a respectable president to take the lead in trying to bring these views together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u149	The president should not try to bring men together to such a conclusion and solution. The president, however, realizes that this is difficult and complicated, and he has sought ways to accept different viewpoints about a solution that could continue to bring us into the Senate work. But it hasn't worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u150	A respectable president. I would like to agree that there will be an attempt to bring these conflicting views together and see if there are any conclusions that can be reached that can be settled by anyone or by men. I found it interesting to hear the language going out there. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttirs Svandís Svavarsdóttir said the law should enjoy the doubt. I understand this so that she changed her view that she had repeatedly received from her talks that the law is being violated. We believe there is no doubt about these legislations. I repeat it. There I adhere to the opinion that has been written and that of others I have received in many places. If it's about nature having the doubt, I'd like to recall a word of agreement. A senator earlier in the discussion where she said that there could never be any peace, it would be overstepped already, it would have been overactivated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of this, it can never be settled that it will not continue. [[The president calls.]] If, in fact, the activation initiatives in lower part of Thorn wounds result in so much conflict, there are no other initiatives to be considered in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u151	A respectable president. It's very clear to the opinion of a man. paritaprevir The son of Jón Gunnarsson, who now leaves the hall. In his own opinion, he wrote that when proposals came from a project administration during the last term, it was in accordance with provision for temporary law, a valid proposal for Congress resolution was sent to the end of the summer of 2011 by the then industrial minister. In his own opinion, it is quite clear that the whole process of the last term was being followed accurately by law. That's not what they're doing right now. That is why it is clear what has to be done here so that this matter will continue to be subject to continued political therapy and votes. There are going to be some illegal changes to return. It won't be enough here often.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u152	President. They have to withdraw the unfortunate proposal, and the National Committees need to complete their work on the three rights that now remain, as I understand that they should take out one of the changes they made or whether those moving her are going to give her a vote or pull her back or something like that. Two of the fortresses remain at the bottom of Þrjörður and Sógglæld. I think I'm doing it right. They need to be completed professional reviews before being suggested to become a colony. The government is in hand asking the project management to speed up that work, put money in it, and bring it back in the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u153	Mr. President. It was said to be in my unit when something was happening. Right away. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came up early after a talk. Svavarsdóttir Then I thought there was some egg sound in him, that he was putting something good into it. But there was something else. As that talk went on for a minute, he turned his back and became hardened and gave no way to settle the matter. Of course, it is surprising that this situation does not include a trace of reconciliation. And the highest. The secretary of finance came here before the President to protect him because the Senate was working so hard on President. Wouldn't be closer to the highest. A minister of finance would offer any suggestions in this matter to release a president from his difficult situation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u154	V.E.G. President. I have no doubt that the highest. The president has, in fact, heard from earlier, was in a lot of trouble in getting some peace in this case. But I'd love to point out the highest. For the President, he has the program, he can take this case off, and he can inform the members of this controversy that it will not be discussed fully until the seating is complete and the solution has been resolved. I don't think it would do any less than that there are the heads of the administrations that sit down, even with members of Congress, because men can try to figure out if the matter cannot be set aside. Now it has been decided that we can have a night meeting, and the program has been planned for today, but I think that would be a good start, and a top. Of course, the President has full authority to sign up for an evening meeting at 8:00 this evening, prepares the president for tomorrow with a meeting of party presidents, and let them know that the matter will not go further unless they have a solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u155	V.E.G. President. The case remains in a complete knot, and I'll admit I have a certain sympathy for the highest. To be the person to make peace and to try to trace the knot, the president would also like to remind him that the purpose of the program is his yes. I also wanted to come up here to say the word. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - fearing son of Hannesson, and I simply feel that the matter has come to the point of making a presentation for the presidents and members of the council and putting forth the heavy and hard work of discussing with some common conclusion about how we can continue these last elections, for obviously this is not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u156	A respectable president. We share here indefinitely in the interpretation of the law, and there's a lot to quote the interpretation of the Environment and Resource Ministry. Here, I'd like to read only interpretations from the Department of Employment and Development by permission of the President: Therefore, it may be said that the terms of General Information to make changes in the terms of eight activations turn to the view that there is an over-the-off of the mountain and a beautiful estimate of the five projects on which they are considered. If considered, according to a discussion on the priming of a report, it could be said that the General has the authority to reevaluate this coverage and the professional evaluation, taking into account all the information available from the 1st, 2 and 3rd part of the framework plan, and based on the evidence of a change in the order of these activations if the decision of the Council is made after reviewing a statement. It should be noted that the law is not clear on this and possibly on the part of the law. This may be considered more clearly in the lyrics of the Law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u157	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u158	Mr. President. In the news yesterday, there was an interesting interview with Magnús Pétursson, a governor who pointed out that a major community issue has an impact on the subject of conversation. He mentioned, among other things, conflicts about the division of resources, the exchange of money from the resources, conflict and conflict between groups, i.e. In view of the fact that people think that there are groups of people better off than others, there is a dispute about many things in society, according to a governor. With the permission of a president, I quote him: ◯...which I am absolutely convinced will affect the state of a dresser interview. V.E.G. Ministers, directors of the administrations, have repeatedly spoken that it is not the government's business to negotiate, although, of course, the state is one of the main people in the battles at BHM. It's the views that have been heard. V.E.G. A financial minister has also ignored the fact that even society is overcrowded, and there may be problems in these debates. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance what he thinks of these words of statehood, which, in fact, says that they are the political conflicts involved in the resources. I can only translate it into human affairs: it's about the fishing costs and their reduction, it's about the energy tax, it's about how we take the money from those who use the resources, how we give it to the public. V.E.G. A yesterday's financial minister published an article that I thought was very positive, where he spoke for the Constitution of a common resource law. But for such a law to be respected, it is important that the public gains the benefit of these resources. When a state-friendly person presents these views, on the one hand, that there is a macropolitic conflict on the resources in the country and on the other, about the inequities in the community, which is certainly when we look at the property status in the community where the richest 10% owns the 70% of the assets, they don't think it's the highest. A minister's right to take some action to change it in order to promote greater peace in the community? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u159	Mr. President. I don't know if you're right. A senator suggests that an agreement has been suggesting that a dresser is an unusual political struggle, that there are all kinds of political emphasis, which is actually the dominant figure in the conversation between parties. I haven't seen it myself, and I don't know exactly what's meant. But no doubt it is true that when a conversation is made, it really matters how peace abounds in the community. What I can say about these factors, such as the use of resources in the country, is that it has never paid more money to the state of the resource use by direct and indirect means than to do this year, and we expect to do this in the next year, including the system of fish management that we have to ensure the maximum value of the resource. We see this, for example, on the index of the OCS on the size of the cod population. We've never in Iceland had more money directly and indirectly from the use of energy resources in our country. Never. And it returns to the state. Talk about reconciliation. What can the government do to promote greater reasonableness in society? Well, this government managed to tax finance companies far beyond what the previous government did so that taxes on financial companies, including broils, are now giving 38 billion a year more than what was in the history of the former government. Let's put it in the context of the electricity tax that the former government said would be a temporary tax, which is running out at this next year's turn. He's up to less than 2 billion. It takes about 20 years of such tax to obtain the bank tax imposed by this government, and it is taken each year. It is, therefore, easy to point to examples not only of how much money comes directly and indirectly to the nation but also of the government's special provisions that should fall to the nation to gain greater benefit from what is going on in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u160	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister began by questioning it when I quoted the words of a Kingdom club. I don't know if it's the highest. Ministers looked at the interview, but a state accord told it quite frankly that treaties are not an account but in part, that they also focused on what would be fair in society. It's those political issues I'm referring to. I'm just asking men to respect it when quoting people, that it's done in the right way. Of course, there would be big questions. I asked the highest. Ministers, among other things, in the disparagement of property in the community, would it be normal for the richest 10% to have 70% of the wealth in the community? Whether he really thought the equation was too much. I'm pretty sure that the people who give us the power to sit here, the people who do their daily work in the community, do not feel that this equation has become too much. It is part of the turmoil in society, and it is the standard for people to set out here in speech and literature, because, as a government contender says, collective contracts are not an account but, in part, an account account. [[The president calls.]] It's important to make peace how we divide the quality, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u161	Mr. President. I was merely calling attention to the agreement that in the dress and grooming business, we'll make decisions here at the General on how we run the fishing business, the use of the resources, and many other such things. These things are not relevant to the state's fairness. I can't believe he was saying that at the bargaining table it was working out how we should exchange the money for the resource use. That's what I said. [[Up front.]] It's about the equation. I've never said that this place has become too equal. I said in discussions about these matters recently here at the council that in the requirements of individual unions, there is an opinion that knowledge is not rewarded, including the fact that some classes do not have a pay cut in line with what they have worked on in learning and in gaining knowledge. This includes the view that there may have been too much equation here. It wasn't my word, it's something you can draw from a well-adjusted standard. [[The president calls.]] But we don't have to look far beyond whether the equation is high in Iceland or not, we regularly receive reports on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Here is one of the world's greatest equations, so it can't be the problem now. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u162	A respectable president. When we found out that in the middle of a fight, activation issues were the main priority of the government. Hence, the prime minister for the sake of collective agreements. It is now stated by the representatives of both the professionals and the labor movement that it has nothing to do with the debate. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier this morning declared that this subject on the program had nothing to do with collective agreements. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister how we should then understand his earlier comments, for there must be some misunderstanding here. And as to whether it is wrong to take the matter off from the program because it does not have to do with the collective agreements, whether financial ministers or those in charge, and to take up a program instead of the highest housing situation. Minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó, or other needs of the quietness of the homes of the land. Is it not something that would be related to the agreements and the prime minister would be willing to use for the program and for the political treatment so that cases that may have been directly related to the agreements and have been on the table, since this priming case has obviously not been in their discussion, yet it is not related to them that some misunderstanding may have been involved, or I may have misunderstood the words of a prime minister here during the dawn?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u163	A respectable president. In this regard, my words could not be misunderstood. However, there is. During the past 24 hours, members of the government deliberately mispronounced what I have said. I'm saying, because the question is as good as it is. Hjörvar I was asked the same question two days ago, the day before yesterday. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and I answered them in a very direct and clear way that the members of Congress had no reason to wonder who the meaning was behind what I had said, which was the exact one that followed the words. But there I said, so I quote myself, by permission of a respectable president: ▪ I'm simply saying that if you plan to negotiate a substantial increase in pay rates, you will need an increase in wealth in the country so that these raise your pay will be increased, otherwise they will go low and burn into inflation. I've said this repeatedly, a respectable president, and don't claim it, never said that men were discussing a frame plan in their dress-up talks between the partners of the labour market. I have simply pointed out the obvious fact that if a significant increase in pay is to be achieved in real financial gain, there is a need for an increase in the value in the country. One of the things that it takes for us to maintain interest here is that the vast number of innovation companies waiting in the starting holes get the energy they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u164	A respectable president. With the highest. The prime minister has now confirmed that this matter, the debate over the fortresses, has nothing to do with the agreements itself, is not the highest. The prime minister is ready to take this meeting on such matters as housing conditions. Social Ministers or other matters related to the interests of the homes in the country that we can unite in discussing them? In this regard, the secretary of finance rightly stated that general social reconciliation was important in order to cover collective agreements. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, whether he agrees and whether he is not willing to add himself to the scales in order to improve the reconciliation, both here in the council and in the community, by putting on the program the urgent progress issues that his own Minister, Harðardóttir Hardarddó, has worked tirelessly over the past two years, and is still much more needed than these disputes and more likely to give us common success, a respectable prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u165	A respectable president. It can now be said with a bang. A senator said there are many important and even urgent matters that would be desirable to be able to discuss here at the General Assembly. Therefore, it would be most desirable if that were so. The members of the government stand would simply be content to have all the previous records in a discussion about the President's conference board and begin to focus on a more objective discussion so that we can discuss them with a wide range of subjects. Hv. For example, a senator mentions the facilities. It has made it clear to the highest level. Social Affairs Minister is prepared to adjust the case to the conclusion that may be discussed with the collective agreements, so that housing issues or changes in the protection of the households will be needed to bring the right of the household rather than to prevent adverse effects, i.e. We need the overall results, whether in housing or in collective matters, to consider that the produce is being returned to the households. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u166	V.E.G. President. He's out of charge. The Minister of Education is in charge of a flash attack against high schools in the country. This flash drive is offered to the current administrative point behind the highest standard. Secretary of education on this flash. In the fall of the year, school champions were shown in the Ministry of giants, an Iceland card with yellow, green, pink, and blue emphasis on how the Ministry was going to work together in high school in the country. It's very symbolic that it was a giant film. May 13th. conducted representatives of the Department of Education in the north and announced these plans, that they would be effective in a month, and that the united secondary schools would begin in the fall. This eruption has caused much anxiety and turmoil among parents, teachers, local rulers, and others. No preparation, no consultation, but a announcement, as was done in the former Soviet Union. Civil and political organizations have responded to this. We have come to a number of conclusions from rural governments, northern independence societies have concluded, forwarding societies, civilizations, and others. I'm asking the highest. Ministers to these plans and how in the world these striped, sleazy practices are. That's why my question is to the highest. Minister of Ministers, is going to the highest. Ministers to combine any high school for the start of the next year?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u167	A respectable president. Hv. A senator speaks of a flash attack against the colleges. I have repeated from this platform pointed out that high school in Iceland is extremely bad in all international comparisons. Me and the Icelanders are in the position that a student's career in Iceland is the least relaxed in OECD, and the greatest elimination. Only 45% of our students complete their studies at the intended time. We spend the bottom line on a global comparison and this includes getting students into our university so that the average age of graduates with both the BA and the BS degrees is just over 30 years. There's a lot of pots broken in the system. What we've been trying to do in the Ministry is deal with this situation. We've arranged for most of our four - year system to be replaced by a three - year system with our high school program, which I consider to be a major step forward. But what we have to do now is to respond to the obvious, that as a result of less years'walk, improved level of employment, and that we are going from a three - year system, we must make sure that the especially smaller schools in the country are still available to provide the services to which they should serve, which are well worth learning and quality education. And not only that, but necessary support also. What we're doing, a respectable president, and I feel that people have gone far beyond themselves in this discussion, are finding ways that schools can work together, integrate their activities, or read together, regardless of how we do it, so that teachers, students, and other ways of learning can be shared, so we cut out whether a person was born in Húsavík or Akureyri. That's what this is all about, and for granted, I'd like to say this: It doesn't stand to overthrow all these schools into one school and the same school under one command. This does not exist and will not be done. We've come up with ideas about what we're looking for and working on for almost a year and a half, so this case isn't done in a hurry. [[The president calls.]] We have searched for possibilities, as well as in cooperation and conversation with the school students about what models we can make to achieve what is so important, more good at school.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u168	V.E.G. President. I wish I could say thank you. Education minister for the answer, but these are the same old coats on international comparisons, etc. V.E.G. According to a minister, members of Congress are overcrowded by criticism of this and likely the local government and the independent communities as well. There is, however, only one person who has gone very far ahead, and that is the highest. Secretary of education. Working the cohesive proposal from the famous, emphasis on the pen form is not acceptable. No conversation has occurred, this is a decree from above that he sends the Ministry Department officials with to deliver these bad news. He talks about cooperation. It's the highest. Ministers know of cooperation among the little high schools around the country, the Far East School that doesn't take a dollar from a trust fund? He's in progress, and I reiterate my question: is going to the highest. Minister to combine high school for the start of the next year? [[The president calls.]] Yes or no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u169	A respectable president. Given the occasion, it is proper to state that we immediately spoke in the spring of 2014 at the conference of the Ministry and the schoolmaster on which way we could reach the goal I previously described. We also discussed it in the autumn of 2014 and in the spring of 2015, and we considered, among other things, how we can view certain parts of the country and ensure the offer we have in each part of the country, if we look at the schools that are there, how we can integrate them so that we can view them as a whole and make sure that the kids there have the most and best access to these schools. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is referring to, and that is what all these thoughts are all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u170	...school.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u171	What I said before, a respectable president, was that there is no such decision, and it has not been decided to unite organizations. [[Up front.]] No such decision has been made. On the other hand, what we are looking at and being an inevitable project, I am thinking about the students in the ideal case of the day. A senator, who is trying to find ways to make sure that the children in this area have the best choice and choice of study and that the quality of the work they have the right to enjoy is the most. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u172	They already have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u173	A respectable president. This is where they call it. There are factors to look to. I've said it before because of what. A senator specifically calls for this, and I'll say again that the answer is: No, no decision has been made on any decision at any school. [[The president calls.]] What I'm saying is this, and it's very clear: school witnessing in this area as well as elsewhere depends on the requirement that the kids have this opportunity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u174	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u175	A respectable president. I'm gonna be on the same line. I agree with the highest. Education minister of education in the fact that there is much to be added to the Icelandic school system. Of course, ministers are to examine every way to do this, but I am beginning to have real doubts about the Supreme Court. Secretary of education is the man for the job. I have to say so. A stone does not stand upon a stone at the time of office transfers. Education ministers are being examined. Last year, when the floor was taken away from the smaller schools in the country, the budget was turned around. Minister of Education is talking about consultation. I think he's on his own. I have a story quoted in Hjalti Sveinsson, president of Iceland's School Master of Schools, and WMA schoolmaster, where he says, with permission of presidents: ▪ It might have been natural to approach us as directors of these schools to get our opinion on this matter that at least we would get the ideas we might have on this matter. The news came to everyone's surprise. I read about them in the media. With the members of the district and no doubt others have received mail from people who ask, "What's going on? " We don't know. I think we had a meeting on the north of May 12th. It's in the media on May 13. Then, May 15th, we'll have some ludicrous announcement to the Ministry of Education and Culture that doesn't explain anything. We must ask for clear answers from the Ministry of Education for what he is thinking. I don't know if what we hear in the media is right, that Saturday and VMA are supposed to be united, and I don't see that these schools have much in common, and then the University of Education on the Grinch, MA, and high school in Húsavík. It would be nice to get a report of the highest. A minister of what he intends because there are men speaking in all directions. I can't say that some consultation has been made in view of what you read in the news. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u176	A respectable president. It would be good to describe just what advice has taken place so that there is no compromise. As I said earlier, these issues were discussed at a schoolmaster meeting in the spring of 2014, then in the fall of 2104 and in the spring of 2015. That's exactly what the Deans worked with us for strength and weakness. More important, if you have read the words in the budget, you will find in both present and last financial laws that you will be able to make changes in school's management arrangements in order to meet the evolution that is obvious to be, no matter what you think. When this is made up plus that my officials had traveled through the country in the past few months, not only during the day, met with the best of school, and discussed these matters, and since I myself had not long since been traveling through the Northland, where I also had meetings with the school champions, and discussed, among other things, the need for us to study in smaller schools would be more important, so that the kids should study, I must allow myself to protest that there was no agreement or that this is done in some dark act as here, or that there is some sort of lightning. This project has been on the drawing table for a long time. I'll call attention to what. A senator with the lyrics of the budget and whatever. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller mentioned earlier, a meeting in the Ministry with an Iceland card on the wall, where certain areas were examined for the cooperation and integration of the school work. Acting that this fell from heaven somehow just a few days ago is wrong. You're wrong, and you're wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u177	A respectable president. They're complaining about the lack of communication. This was also done when decisions were made regarding short - term studies in high school. V.E.G. A minister must get some counselling on how to consult, for either he is not listening to him at the meetings or all who complain about his lack of communication are lying. No one's talking about not making changes in the school system, but just do it like a man.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u178	A respectable president. As for the shortening, it is now estimated that for almost 20 years this case has been on the drawing table. Countless reports and numerous research has been conducted on this project. A number of ministers have done so, but they have not gone until now. The project's done really well. The schools themselves have contributed to education in each school, thus ensuring that different approaches and different ways have been enjoyed, just because they have replaced four - year systems with a three - year system that provides the same potential as they have been to create different schools. It's wrong that they've claimed it's just some kind of school. For example, if a person compares the Grinch School with the Women's School, there is a long distance between them. However, it is quite true that changing the educational system is very difficult. For decades, we have had educational and high school systems that have supported the systems of other nations. I realize that there will be conflict and it will be difficult to make changes. A lot of people say, "What's wrong?" A senator: You may change, but then, when it comes to either offering suggestions or making some adjustments, it is always said: "No, just something else, just do something differently, have discussed in some other way. [[The president calls.]] It's what's so hard about changing the education system, just this approach, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u179	President. Like so many others, and no doubt even the highest. I'm very worried about what's going on in our society over a fight. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson if the Minister doesn't think it's time to offer some solution. It has been customary for the state to bring some card to pay for it. I've felt that this knot was a little short of trying to cut. We now see the largest strike of Iceland's history taking place. Already, several groups of tourists have left behind for the country of concern. So I just wanted to know if we'd soon be allowed to see some plan, some suggestions from the government. I don't think it's good to drag these things along. It has already done much damage to society that there is, in fact, a situation similar to that of the Council on the issue of priority. You can hear the highest, too. The prime minister says that the need to resolve conversation is to engage more, and I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether that's his opinion as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u180	Mr. President. First only about the activations, I don't think it's quite correct what the prime minister is saying. I think we're at the highest. The prime minister would agree that continuing with caution and respect for nature but with a clear desire to use our energy efficiency, to activate, is part of the ongoing growth in the economy and part of continuing to develop a high standard of living. What is the government ready to do? I'll celebrate the discussion on that. I can go through it in the middle of nowhere. First, we have talked about making changes in the income tax system, winding down relatively recent increases in income taxes, and returning them to the people of the country with changes to simplify their income tax system. We can't put numbers behind these plans until we see some bigger picture. We have also talked about changes in housing. Both have been discussed with increased support of renters, i.e. to increase rent compensation, as well as taking measures to ensure further development of social housing. The same thing is, we can't put direct numbers behind this until we see what's going in the outcome of the collective agreements. There are other things. We have been open to discuss changes in student remunerations to Icelandic students and have considered some options there and listened to the emphasis of those who are particularly playing the game. Of all these factors, it can be said that we have no clear line from people from either public market, i.e. The members of the business organization, the public society. There's no harmony between these parties and when it's hard to complete the government's proposals. At meetings, we have repeated, repeated, and repeated, both two - sided and many at once, given these factors and others as an example of the arrangements in terms of government matters that we are prepared to make in order to increase the benefit of the wage workers in the country. However, we are not ready to go to such lengths as to take on heavy action if the end of the labour agreements alone is to increase in inflation and growth. [[The president calls.]] I find that to be economicly irresponsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u181	President. I appreciate the answers, and as a result, I want to do this a little bit more thoroughly. I'd also like to point out that the highest. During an interview, a prime minister said that there is no mistaken pressure from the debate to activate, that this is a prerequisite for solving the debate. I heard you were at the highest. A minister mentioned the housing issues. I just wanted to get a better explanation of what it is that the Minister applies and if there is any chance that there could be a slightly better implementation for the change in the income tax system to benefit and whether the Minister even agrees with the requirement for 300 levels. K. The minimum wage would be fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u182	Mr. President. In terms of the housing situation, I think very much about what I hear in the discussion about the discretion of the conversation and the attitude of some of the people involved in it who seem to be relieved, there is a calculation of the potential effect of negotiating overexploited awards, i.e. They may belittle warnings, whether they come from the Secret Bank or the World Bank notes, that in the case of inflation, if one negotiates a particular basis, it will go up and grow as a result of the damage resulting to the housing market. I'm thinking that this is the same time as the government's requirements for housing action because the size of the table we could possibly bring there could be higher inflation and higher growth. The damage to the results of the agreement could be greater than the benefits of the government's actions. What we have been primarily talking about is the tenet, the social housing, and what we can do to reduce the construction costs and the expense of the mortgage. [[The president calls.]] That's all I'm gonna say about 300 yous. K. The requirement, but the fact that I feel that we must be clear priorities in raising everyone from the bottom, and the changes in income taxation are particularly thought to increase the cost of those who have taken on extra burdens in recent years. [[The president calls.]] I'm thinking that as many people as possible benefit from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u183	A respectable president. In view of the severity of a knot in the matter of Congress, we requested a lunch break after a meeting with a council leader. We are well into the second week of our discussion of one particular matter of Congress. The reason for this massive knot has come up is a major material disagreement on the changing employment laws to the Environment Minister's proposal for a conference resolution on a Framework Programme. In addition, many members of the Parliament believe that this is an act of superintendent against the spirit of a frame plan and that it is out of harmony and that the task management is now allowed to complete the work of this additional inactivation, and we will agree that the process is above doubt. A respectable president. I believe the President must step in because of the position that has come up to try to resolve any solution in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u184	A respectable president. I reviewed earlier that for 45 days the issue of government with groups within public institutions has failed to be resolved, such as at the national hospitals. Next week, nurses will also have a strike. Then next week, too, there will be a period of air travel that will leave the land and the land unsatisfactory. While the government decides to stick their heads in the sand, not to know, not to notice, not to discuss it, and therefore not to have just one discussion on this matter at the council. It must tell us that humans have no control over this situation. Therefore, a respectable president, because it has been called by proposals, I propose that there be a meeting with the president and members of the council where the foundation will be laid for the general council to leave the government and to agree on a proposal to respond to the call of these groups for improved standard of living. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u185	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree that a meeting will be held with members of the council. It's very bad for us at the council to meet up here until the night. What are we meeting about? Are we meeting for improved pensioners? Are we meeting for the job market position? Are we meeting for serious health care facilities because of a strike? Are we meeting for food production or tourism? No, we're not. I think we should call a meeting, chief. President, with councilors. So I'd like to say that in my part, we don't wave at night. Some nut. A senator claimed that it was because we wanted to watch Euroviation. Then I'd like to remember what's pleasant with this highest. In the chair, when he got out of the semi-final with Pollapanski, we were particularly delighted here in the gym, so there's nothing to be done about it. Of course, there are issues that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u186	The President now wants to use this opportunity before introducing the senator to his show of warm words from the last speaker, and, of course, wishes the Eurovision Group of the Icelanders luck tonight on behalf of the President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u187	A respectable president. I'm sure we all agree with the highest wishes. President to our representative in Euroviation. Sadly, though, the routes continue in this hall, and there are no good references too often. I think that the reference that doesn't rhyme is that it should be reassigned, considered about the proposal of the Environment Minister as it was submitted, that the government should put power in a project program for the projects during the summer, and that a professional discussion of the four benefits added to the unfortunate, or three if they are left standing, can be resumed in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u188	A respectable president. Of course, it should be standard practice or something that doesn't have to be said that when things are so upset as they are in now, when such seminars arise, and this isn't the first time that they happen since I came to this workplace and definitely not the last time, it should be a regular part of the council program that the council members found with a president to review the situation, I'm not talking about when men have debated for as long as this, since the beginning of the last week. In these chapters, the atmosphere in the Assembly Hall is very uncomfortable and goes beyond mere formalities and rifts. It is necessary for us to find room to review the situation and see how it can be improved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u189	A respectable president. A bright future is that I'm thinking of the only political party that has it in its policy list that Iceland works on Euroviion. I think that's an example of a policy that we could achieve a parapolitic stand for at a Senate Hall. This discussion of the President's conference board is on my account, and on every other side, I think, is about the President's conference board, and it's all about how we feel a meeting would be better controlled here. I think in politics there are a lot of tools available in that box. I'll experience it a little recently, as if it's just cross-cutting and rigid. I think at the beginning of this case, it was possible to sit down, and I am sorry that it has not yet been settled down and tried systematically to make up, try to accept different viewpoints in this and try to find a solution. I believe she exists. It may not be a solution that everyone accepts as much, but it is at the very least a solution to the situation and prevents us from being here in a conflict and wasting time in nonsense. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u190	A respectable president. I would like to ask a president to accompany us in the isolation of this problem, that we try to isolate ourselves from the problem we see. The problem is with the administration of the government in the first place, Prime Minister and Secretary of finance, and with the top executives, then. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. I think it's very important if we start looking at any solution in this case that these problems will be taken out of parentheses, i.e. that we try to approach the subject so that this problem does not interfere with the approach, because if we always have a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson or the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson or Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, in the attempt to figure out a solution, we cannot find a solution. I think it might be a big problem, that we can't figure out the solution until we help out that here, well- meaning senators from all categories and respectable presidents, to take the problem, to take it aside, and to try a solution with well - meaning peace lovers at the General. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u191	The president wants to direct it to members of Congress to try to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u192	V.E.G. President. It was an interesting suggestion that the last speaker made here to isolate the problem and then try to work out a solution. I'm the highest. A president to take it to heart. I reiterate what I've said here before, unfortunately, I have to say one more trip that I don't think it's possible to do anything but to the highest. The president sits down with members of the council and even others, the presidents of the clans, or anyone else - I could even think completely beyond the box - a random assembly order. They need to sit down and discuss the solution. [[The president calls.]] I think we can bring some original ideas and try to see if they're working, because what's going on here obviously doesn't work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u193	Mr. President. We're going back to the President's conference board and not unnecessary. I believe that those members of Congress who are responsible for putting forth such adjustments are a heavy responsibility to use themselves to resolve this matter. They're what they are. Councilmen of Jón Gunnarsson, Friðriksson Fridurksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Haraldur Benediktsson son of Benedict, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglur, and Þorsteinn the son of Sæmundsson. There is a great responsibility for the shoulders of these senators. They must make an effort to find a solution in this matter. We remember a case that was also a serious system cable, where landing was successful. Then certain senators promoted it. Now why not dust off the pathway of reconciliation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u194	A respectable president. It's no fun to be standing here in a hurry. I'm sorry, but this is the only weapon we have in the management position not to let a large part of the employment committee try to do with their changing proposals, which we believe are many of which we believe are directly violating the laws on a frame program called but called a more advanced and more dignified name. This is very serious. Everything's freezing out here. Besides, it's getting cold out here outside the House. The whole society is going to freezing. We need to discuss the matter with the government and whether they have any idea of how they intend to solve it. First, we need to resolve this. You can do it in half an hour. [[The president calls.]] Then we can do the normal work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u195	Mr. President. I wish that there would be a break in this meeting, and the president will find ways to settle the matter. Who knows that this situation at the council isn't working? One way of making peace might be to take the cases available at the council or to look outside the council and see if there is anything more worthwhile in the program than what we are discussing here and look only outside the house, see what is going on there. We now see the possibility of the largest strike in Iceland's history in the days ahead. I'm asking the President to look into this route, see if there's not a possibility that anything in this room is worth more than just what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u196	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, vice president of the United States, speaks a lot about dress issues and not discussing them here, says the government will stick its head in the sand. I don't know if she's listened to the speech of a financial minister earlier when he said that he had already introduced the labour market's employees that the government is ready to reach these collective agreements in many ways, such as housing, tax, customs, and so on. He took his heart to the discussion of improving the interests of the lowest paid in the community. As Magnús Pétursson has entered the state line, the state has not played out its cards. He said that it did not, but the state was ready to participate in responsible agreements, so the line was not to go ahead, but the state would bring but no demands from the labour market on the involvement of the state, i.e. In what she should lie, no requests. I wish here for what. The vice president of the United States accounts for the resolutions of the United States on these topics. Then it's the neat greeting from the council leader of the Left Green, why. paritaprevir Svanís the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, not to take the problem, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnul, Bjarni the son of Beneak, og Jón the son of Gunnar, outside the parentheses, and the friðelskandi - loving daughter of Savvavar, sit down and suggest a solution. [[The president calls.]] Yes, I'll wait for a suggestion to release from the smaller parts of this matter, which may be a different suggestion, but that the case should be off schedule and sent to its home. [[The president calls.]] There is no suggestion for some reconciliation that we can resolve on this matter. [[Foreplay here speech.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u197	The president once again wishes to remind the senators to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u198	A respectable president. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson wants us to figure this out. Hv. paritaprevir And the chairman of the Bright Future discussed the matter just before then. I think it's very important, of course, that we figure that out. It was tiresome to stay here until noon in the chamber, listening to this great rage that is in a conquistancy, deep anger. I wondered when I sat in the hall that it was like many members of the hall fed on that anger, and it's a question of whether it's not okay for us to give the people in the country and us just a vacation from this great rage that's in front of us and try to turn us toward the media, because they wait and if the solution is at hand, let's go and grab them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u199	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with my comrades at the government opposition requested here, both that a meeting be delayed and met with members of the council, as we did before a lunch break. Speaking of the tradition, I don't like ministers coming here like they did this morning and all they had to say was to say that the government's side was indistinguishable and in the market, and that something like this would just never have been seen, like the Supreme Court. The prime minister said. V.E.G. Financial and economic secretary has been telling us about things, we shouldn't have to vote on something that has been voted before, the way the use of resources should be done, no business should be brought into the table of state paraphernalia, etc., so he seems to be telling people elsewhere about what should be done on each board and where to discuss things, a respectable president. I don't think it's acceptable on the part of a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u200	V.E.G. President. There is good reason to discuss how we can continue to clear things up. I have to admit that despite the many discussions that have taken place here on both the President's conference board and the case, I'm surprised to see that this is the subject of today's investigation. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of a professional professional committee, says that the matter is not about form but about material and argues that we are arguing about activation options, not about how to handle the matter objectively and how to handle it, and how to proceed with it, and to proceed with a project management before it comes into place elsewhere. I can only talk for myself, and I've supported the proposal as if it were originally about whale activation, we're just going to finish it and I'm ready to do it in a positive way, I've been able to express it before, but I insist that men don't go outside of a frame plan and take no other suggestions on a schedule until the project management has finished its work. Wait a minute. foreman to answer what can be expected that the project management will need a long time, considering that it now compromised money, to handle this priming option. [[The president calls.]] That's what it takes to resolve the issue, that's to send it there, give it a little time, finish the whale surgery, then finish the case. [[The president calls.]] But clearly not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u201	V.E.G. President. I would like to reiterate my request for the Supreme Court. President of the council members meeting. There is a serious situation in the labour market, as has been seen in several times today and in the last days. And it is not merely a dissatisfaction with the pay, but it is in general disgruntled by how we deal with the resources and in what way the disparities of property are becoming in our community. This is a fundamental issue that this government has promoted through its administrative practices. This interpretation proposal that we now discuss, or the adjustment to it, is a typical treatment of these categories of national resources. We stand firm against such things. A meeting must now be held and brought to the normal working environment here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u202	A respectable president. Hv. The senators and ministers are bitterly complaining that we should pray for them to come here and discuss the matter of discretion. This is normal because for 45 days the state has been treating groups that are still on strike for 45 days, a respectable president. It's a sign of complete inadequacy. V.E.G. In this chair, the prime minister has said that the State will wait until the public market is met. How does that policy work for us? What happens next week? Then we'll be off a plane to and from the land. Then nurses have joined the ranks of those who are also members of the State. A respectable president. All of this is at the same well. They don't know what they're going to do. Since humans do not know what to do, we in the position of government have been invited to sit down together over this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If that's not true of the government, we senators should be able to sit together and try to resolve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u203	Mr. President. Yes, there is anger in this council hall, and that is part of the way these cases have been formed. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, one of the couriers of this movement, which is so controversial here, spoke of the great rage that was here in the chamber. Anger can come from various sources. Anger can spring from a sense of righteousness, and anger can result from inequities. That's the way you keep counting. Righteous anger moves people to fight for a good cause. We are in the position of government. We are fighting for legal purposes through the use and protection of Icelandic nature, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u204	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the Professional Board, calls up the Continent's ideas about what the state could put into the controversies. Where it is. A senator calls for this team for the President's conference board, and I can't understand it any other way than he would like it to be given space here on the council program so that the Continents can come up with their ideas for solutions. I'd like to agree with that wish anyway. A senator and requesting that the president bring in the ideas of the council classes, for I expect and, in fact, request that the president give information as to whether there are certain members of the council that are not meeting the positions here at the council and allow them to leave this jam.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u205	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson made it a topic of anger earlier. I agree with what. A senator's deep anger prevails among members of Congress because of the way the program is conducted and because of the priorities of the council. But I don't agree with what. A senator that we are feeding on that anger, for we in the position of government have spoken of the need for solutions, to be found, and to have a conclusion that everyone can enjoy. So I finally want to say something. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter suggested that the program be set up as a point of agreement. There are plenty of cases that have been taken care of by committee on solidarity. [[The president calls.]] These are the ones we should take and schedule now and finish. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u206	Mr. President. I'll come back up here and discuss the President's conference board and how a matter we at the government stand wanted to discuss this morning was not arranged. I wish I could say that I felt as if I were in the unbearable light of existence, but the opposite is true. There are so many things we have to do, we can do better, and should be talking about, not only those who are now involved in strikes, but there is much to be done with both pensions and pensions. Despite the highest standards, these are many social groups. The secretary of finance that appeared on the magazine's web earlier, that there was so much equal in the community, and it was smaller in many places. In view of the situation in society, a respectable president, it does not seem to be in accord with the opinion of those who fight for their terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u207	A respectable president. I guess we're gonna do this another day, one more day. What I've been trying to stress recently is that we need to find the box on some successful way into the future. We can't do that with this thing on the agenda, frame plan, not with this adjustment program at which point. Business committee. Therefore, I would like to agree with the wishes that discussions on this matter take place between the council groups, the respected president of the council, the president of the council, and the rest of the council can cause, in order to try to figure out how to solve this knot or at least take one band out of it. I think it's very important, because it's not these specific activations that are the main point, the process is the main, that's the frame plan itself, which is the main point of the project management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u208	V.E.G. President. This morning's discussion and votes naturally revealed that the government fears and does not want to approach them. A recent meeting stressing why we want to make this issue on the program was discussing the situation in the community, and there have been other members, and that what has failed here is trust. That's interesting. One prime minister has noted that the situation in contracts may be so difficult because there is now a change. Perhaps you are right, but the problem is how to divide it. When people began to discuss the confidence of meetings in a town, e.g. In Industrial, it was stated that trust had broken down, among other things, because of the government's frauds of contracts in December 2013, treaties for the private sector, and more have caused mistrust and dissatisfaction in society. [[The president calls.]] The box is one of the other items to use force and to leave half or more of the nation. [[The president calls.]] That is what causes controversy in our community and detracts us from the opposite of what society needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u209	A respectable president. I think there's a lot to it that there's a lack of trust between debaters and members of society. It is true that Magnús Peter's Pétursson, the governor, has such distrust today and is driving it all the way back to the 2009 Convention, but it does not have to think long again to recall the distrust that developed between the government and the national employee movement. Dr. Katrín Ólafsdóttir, lecturer in economics at the University of Reykjavík and Dr. Cornell University, said at a lunch meeting today that the result of a huge increase in credit rates, such as the unions have requested, they would have to pay more at first but inflation would increase, interest would be higher, and home debt would be equal. This is evident in a smaller investment and less economic growth, said Katrín, and added: Is that what we want? That is exactly what the government has been saying. [[The president calls.]] Under such circumstances, the government has no solution. [[The president calls.]] She cannot put forth anything to fantasize the fire that would set on in such situations. But the government, like the highest. The secretary of finance entered today is prepared to add his weight to the scales in reasonable agreements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u210	The government is eutrophicating...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u211	A respectable president. I also experience distrust in the community, great distrust in many people. It's been there since the collapse I mean, and we're not helping out with what's going on at the High Council. Therefore, I feel that all of us should strive to find some solution to the framework process so that we can at least continue. What is most unlikely to establish trust is when men testify to the fact that some former government supposed to have been terriblely evil has done something, and therefore this government can do the same or this greater part of it rather. It is not comforting, and there is no fall for building any bridges. That is why I feel that there is something wrong with it. The head of the professional road committee should seriously consider subtracting these adjustments and trying to reach the table and finding solutions that can be accepted for the future because this is not about the activation option itself. [[The president calls.]] I think that's what we're talking about. The head of the pro board knows that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u212	Madam President. It is news when it occurs two days in a row to the highest degree. Governments suggest that the Council of the United States take up the big business and the serious situation of the labour market today. It is obvious that this is the turning point for decades, but it is happening day after day that the government is afraid to discuss these matters at the High General Assembly. Why? Because the motivation for this matter is so strong that people do not want to let the matter go. The best thing to do in this situation, Madam President, is to postpone this case and try to find out if they can be reached with an agreement at any given moment. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson and others have talked about, instead of holding this case here as a hostage, and preventing us from discussing the serious situation that is developing in a workforce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u213	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for making this special discussion happen today. The request was submitted to some point since then, but the purpose to discuss market solutions in the marine future is still valid. It is particularly important now when a minister announces that the necessary resources of macroil will be distributed in a certain way without any attempt to allow prices or rent on the labour markets to attack a free and open market. Fishing control is complicated, of course no one is denying it. Most of us agree that the nation is a common owner of the fishing resource, that the resource is limited, and therefore it must be controlled to preserve sustainableity in order not to destroy it. Most of us agree that the control or system put up in 1984 is well enough to maintain this sustainableity, and it's very well, but there's still a debate over the cooling system that has been put in because some people have been assigned to the party have taken out of the story with a pocket full of money when they have sold the salathan. Of course, people ask themselves, " Wait, isn't it the people who own the resource? ' How can this arrangement be viewed as righteous? If eating is so valuable, i.e. So, the hunting rights, why isn't he sold from the state on a public market, offered up, for example, and the benefits thus flow into a government fund? Men have gone a different way by laying on hunting expenses, but why is this enormous value we cannot see in the sea sale at the government's fishing fees? This, of course, is a very legitimate question, which has actually been in question for the past 30 years. Þorkell the November 4, 1987, issue of this issue, dedekell Helgason, a mathematician wrote with permission to quote it here in the morning: ▪ There is no doubt that 1984's greeting system is a step in the right direction. However, the distribution of food will always cause a wolf's spray. The only way to do this is to let the government sell it. Compulsion contributes to the most economic development and also ensures the normal share of the nation in the increase of food production as a result of improved management. ... A heated debate with the Council on Fishing Management shows clearly that free distribution results in an eternal conflict. It will continue to be tried to establish the distribution rules, taking into account more and more viewpoints until the system has become a mess. Even so, it will never be fair. There is only one clear way out of this tunnel: that the government sells the Quakers at market prices, even on a sort of auction. This article might as well have been written today. The Þorkell was truly foretold when he foretold that the free distribution of the State of the currencies would always result in a wolf's spray. This is what we see today. That is why there are more than 34 of you. Someone has signed a petition to the President of Iceland not to sign the law from the highest degree. A sea emissary in which he intends to distribute without charge enormously valuable to some, but not to others, i.e. Hunting warrants on the mackerel. This is what a fishing minister intends to do, based on previous fishing experience in a mackerel, which is not a method of protesting. Men have assumed it and, of course, have to take this into account, but I'm putting a big question mark on the fact that all the quotas are distributed in this way, that's what's next permanently, and I'm also putting a big question mark on the price tag set on the market. I've taken an example of the mackerel, a respectable president, and I'm going to allow myself to continue to do so, for here we have a vivid example of how the saying "veiling " is defective because nothing is taken into account by marketing solutions. Makril has returned 24 billion in export prices just last year, and because of the enormous sum of money, a minister has decided to set 10 k. extra charge on those warrants. Nobody knows how to get to the top. The minister found out about this price. The fact is, we do not know whether the price is right. There is absolute uncertainty about this, many have claimed that it is too low, and others have complained about it. The only way to test the correct price to run to the people of all nations is to find it on the market. I want to go to the highest. Ministers after whether he agrees with me about the conclusion that the project actually knows better than politicians in these matters; it is at least always a step ahead of the administration of the right thing; of course, the process will have to go to the market she sells every day. A price on retails is a neutral fee, determined by the structure itself. It pays as much as it can, but no more than the competitive situation allows. Here are some ways I'll go in later. I'm interested in knowing what the minister's opinion on these market routes is. Is it not true to look over the story, acknowledge that the free operation of fishing has been, and is still the basic reason why the government in the fishing grounds is not at peace? [[The president calls.]] Does a minister not need to respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u214	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for requesting this discussion. I think most members of the Parliament can agree on the importance of being more reasonable in terms of the design of seafood, but unfortunately, we have not been able to do so in spite of our efforts. In fact, it is reported that during the last term, a transnational committee was formed to deal with the order of the sea espionage, with the involvement of representatives of key stakeholders and political parties. The committee did a good job, but it did not succeed, as did the above committees, in offering suggestions on how to meet together. When the eating system was recorded more than 30 years ago, it was largely done to cope with overfishing, overfishing, and the modest loss of the fishing industry, at least by the majority of the companies that were constantly being responded by gangs, and by means of the loss of power. A number of other measures in the fishing future were taken. These include the decommissionment of complex material systems, such as Benefit Insurance and Price Balance Fund, but this transfer system had actually become complicated by the end that only a few humans know its infrastructure. Then came the 1990 national treaties, and some claim that one of the most important criteria for these were the organizational changes made in the marine waters of the previous decade, which provided the basis for more economic stability. In the beginning, it was not that the fishing route could pay for its resources. Rather, the main subject was to get the article back on track after many years of loss, to reduce the armada's efficiency, and to establish sustainable use of fish stocks. These targets have been followed, and thus marketing solutions were actually used for this solution. Over the past 30 years, things have changed. In 1981 we caught 460 of you. One ton of cod and its export value was 303 million dollars. In 2013, we caught 236 yous. One ton of cod, the export value of 720 million dollars was obtained. So the amount decreased by less than half, but the value did more than double at the same time. Thus, there has been tremendous success, and in fact, this trend is not limited to fishing and processing of cods, but more and less relevant to all marine development. However, the greatest success that has been achieved in the construction of the cod population is the one where we have kept our cards and followed more and less scientific advice for 30 years. Not to be overlooked is the fact that we have a good opportunity to increase fishing in institutions that we have not used in years before. Not all of this may have happened if we had continued on the route that existed before the saying of the saying system. In fact, I allow myself to claim that the establishment of the saying system and the possibility of making plans to sell trajectorys and arrangements between them created a basis for the application of new species, both within and without jurisdiction. In other words, we have again used marketing solutions to control the fishing road. All in one way or another have enjoyed the success of the fishing industry. We now have loyal control of the use of major fish plants, and the evidence indicates that we can safely deliver this important resource to future generations. Despite such fine results, debates still exist over the ships of seafood. In view of this, I think it is possible to say that there is only a small amount of debate about the system as such. In other words, the debate has to do with the possession of the sea resources and the exchange for the nation's use of them. Not to be overlooked is the view that the fishing system must also take into account its foundations on the seaside. It should be kept in mind, though, that such views may be contrary to the idea of the nation's ownership and using it for use. I have been a spokesman for trying hard to make peace with the order of seafood. I know a lot of senators from all categories share that vision with me. As a team in this effort, I had a bill written in the last winter with subjects that are particularly at stake. In 1st. This bill, for example, suggests the direct possession of the state and the custody of resources. This will be used for a certain amount of time for the use of rent fees in the same way as in general practice, e.g. it's about rent rights or other government benefits. The bill also contains measures aimed at ensuring the long - term provision of a set proportion of labour warrants for social needs, to build up. It is my opinion that the arrangement proposed in the bill can become a basis for reconciliation. At the same time, I believe it is necessary to set a law in the constitution which makes it clear that the resources of the sea are owned by the nation and, in fact, other resources. It does not mean that everyone will be happy and late will be so when there is such a great deal of interest. Everyone who knows in the fishing field knows that the auction of resources mentioned here would immediately lead to great changes. The largest companies would buy the resources, and they would have been able to catch and win fish and who would not. It may well be that at first this method would bring more money to the government funds, but it is clear that there would be a lot of effects and many problems in the hands of the State. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u215	President. The initial purpose of the eating system was to prevent overfishing and somehow divide the fish in the sea, to decrease in those years, and to reduce, as shown in the case of the highest level. Minister. It is safe to say, then, that the original objective of protecting fish stocks has been so successful that now the fish stocks are once again building. Because it is possible to sell from ship to ship, and so forth, the eating system has also contributed to a much more economic advantage in the marine road, and we all thank for it. On the other hand, the source of resources given to them without paying a price has become one of the biggest issues among the people and cause the greatest division in the country, I think. That is why there is some way out of this problem, and there is a good tool, a respectable president, to share out a limited resource. It is done with a price, and it is done on the market. So, like any other product, the shelling is to be spread out into the market. At the same time, we resolve another problem, a respectable president, who makes their own decisions on how much money they pay for each weight they hunt. They decide for themselves, and they don't have to be calculating it, and people arguing about whether it's right or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u216	A respectable president. Yes, they've had quite a long time for these arguments about the fishing system. In fact, it was not at all acceptable to the greeting system in the beginning, either. At that time, many fishermen and fishermen debated that their employment rights were being cut off, those who had invested in this article, sailors who had worked with it for many years were very conflicted with the need to deal with the problem. The goals set there have also gone up, with the lead hall set in 1991, and they have probably been one of the biggest initiatives in the economy of the Icelandic fishing industry. There went the cooking of ships, the fishing paid itself for it by paying into the fund which was so paid to those who were cooking ships. It is different with other peoples where the State usually pays for such waste, as the European Union does today. Since then, great purchases and partnerships have become high and the fishing fleet has been reduced, and economic management has been achieved. This, of course, was the purpose. The result was predictable. In many cases, there have been disagreements that left the article with a large amount of money, even from companies who were not too well fired. But what has happened is hard to deal with, and people may not see these disputes just as they have been. Now that we've reached this mackerel stock, that's where it's at. A senator went in earlier, and what way should we go in there. Well, I think it's quite hard to believe that I don't feel that a deed should be in the way that was applied to the exodus at the time, we need to set it a limit. But somehow we need to divide it out and try to achieve our maximum efficiency by this article and by this natural resource of ours. I have to say exactly as it is, a respectable president, I don't really care what the fishing system in Iceland looks like, I don't really care, if there's any results, which way it's gone. [[The president calls.]] If people can come along with an acceptable route other than the one we have already gone, it is only best to try to make peace with them. But the problem is that we are changing a system that has made a lot of success, and we need to be careful about changing it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u217	Madam President. We'll talk about marketing solutions in the fishing business. We left greens have not been provided without the market laws in this article, rather than many other articles, but we want it to be paid for the use of a common resource, such as the water resources. I believe we can access it in various ways, how we distribute a resource like the mackerel and allow humans to use that resource naturally. I think the mackerel can be rented out and attached to the rent prices and, of course, should pay the normal fishing fees for mackerel and other species in the ocean as well as that will lead to the nation. We've been arguing over who should have access to the resource for a long time. I feel that justice is as important as the nation's gain from the resource that Iceland can use the sea resources, and it's not too much of a compression, as it certainly has been during the past 20 years. I keep in mind the protests of the Norwegian Seamen on the fact that large companies were buying out dinners in their jurisdictions, and they pointed to the United States saying that they had left an entire settlement on cold ice there. They also pointed out what I agree with completely, that although we want practical business, he will never become a goal in himself in any way associated with the society of fish survivors. [[The president calls.]] There are other points in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u218	Madam President. If the nation really has the resources to fish, it is, in fact, as shown in the fish - control law, then the nation must be able to get market prices for them. It can't be the nation's property if the people don't get market prices for it. That's the arrangement now. Is this the worst arrangement in the world? No. To set some kind of limitation at the time, in the end was it a greeting? No, it wasn't bad. It had to be done to ensure sustainableity, and it needs to ensure sustainableity when talking about such a common resource. However, it was on the grounds that those who were affected by this crisis and had invested, who were assigned to a year and a year and a year, forever. When it comes to costing jobs, they can get and apply for patents for a certain period of time. It's done by ◯patents, patents. Then there's a patent for some time, and it's often 20 years, a maximum of 20 years, but it's been for over 30 years. Then they say, "Yes; but they sold him to the people, and to others, who bought him." Experiencing guarantees natural efficiency, which is reasonable. Then they say, "Yes, but they bought the salad, and you can't take it from them just like that." No, it is natural to ensure a measure of equality and certain reasonableness in this, but to do so and to ensure that the nation will receive real market prices for that would be one of the ways that it was proposed during the last term that 5% of the year would go to the State and then at auction. Then they would have to pay market prices to get a contract to catch fish for 20 years. That's where the sustainable interest comes in. This would be a way that could go, she would be fair. Not everyone would have the whole thing. The people wouldn't get it on one board like that, no, it would take time to be reasonable. But this would be our market, and the nation would remember, in the end, the time in 20 years, had already received the market value for its property. There would be one thing to do. If I had a choice, but I'm not supposed to. But if I did, everyone would have a right, one to 320 grand, which would be only in the state's pot, and people would be paid a check when this went public. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not supposed to be in charge of this. [[The president calls.]] These interests must be integrated and guaranteed for a national agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u219	The president would like to ask members of the Parliament to respect the time they have set aside in front of a speaker's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u220	Madam President. Sometimes market solutions are appropriate, and since then we have spent years in the United States using the fish industry. In fact, we do not believe that the amount of hunting costs will be obtained until it is determined on market grounds and that macroclotan marketing solutions are clearly not searched for. I would like to remind you here that in an Annex to the workgroup report on a review of fish management legislation since September 2010, the package leaflet is covering an offerer route and discussing the preparation of Member States by integrating recycling and tender markets. At the request of the head of the staff, please. paritaprevir Þorkell Helgason, former professor of calculus at the University of Iceland, and Jón Steinsson, lecturer in economics at Columbia University in New York, a paper on the offer path. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to study their idea, but the benefits of an offer are that the rent fee paid for requisitions is automatically flung by commercial fishing and reducing the likelihood of political intervention on contract prices. Thus, the amount is not based on political ecstatic decisions. The structure itself determines the cost to which it feels to be able to facilitate access to the resource through market oers, which prevents braking with the quathane. The proposal also follows a reduction in uncertainty about the future political intervention and strengthens the marine environment. The range within the system is increased, which provides the most advanced opportunities for the economy whether they are old or new. In the implementation of the form of an offer, it is easy to take into account localities, to prevent compression, and to respect the uniqueness of my development, and, if properly maintained, correct the offer of injustice, which means that the benefits of operating in this article fall into the pocket of few people who live in the sea have an expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u221	A respectable president. The Icelandic fishing industry is the only production branch in Iceland that compares with the world market in production. The fishing fee is in society, and we need to build on it. Marketing solutions in the fishing road are not the solution we need; increasing compression will be the result of the collapse of investments in the article, it will have a major impact on the areas where large companies grow bigger and they will be fewer, and the small radios will pass by. The most important thing in the fishing industry and, of course, all articles are foreknowable. Of course, the code system is not flawless, since the exposition may be said to be the most important option for the saying system, but at the same time it may be the most important of the problems. But how important it is for the coastal areas, for example, to be able to build foreseeability, to build up the trust of a company that makes money for society. We have watched this happen in recent years, where the sea settlements have grown and are strengthened close to the powerful companies. It is vital, then, that when we consider how we share these benefits with others that they are justified and moderate in paying them. But sharing fish in the market regularly, it will create chaos, it will create unforeseenity in the article that will weaken it and will weaken the state of Iceland, which is one of the strongest in the world at its present moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u222	Madam President. I believe that when the deed was put on into the fishing system we now live in, and it has caused great dissatisfaction and controversy in society. There's been a massive compression of about ten of the largest companies with 80% quatane. As a result, many villages in the country are on cold ice, broken - down. Other settlements are weak and struggle because of this, and there are also the third settlements that have certainly made much money in this vast conglomeration and are benefiting. I believe that we should learn from this experience and share new species in another way and gain good money from them as a national company rather than as an unprovoked offer. I don't think it's the good, then there'd be a lot of compression, and the same thing would happen, as has happened in the present saying system. Unorthodox marketism just doesn't apply everywhere. I believe that the mixed routes can be viewed regarding the export of it, I count it quite slowly, and shared this resource with some fences, as one says, where different types and settlements were seen. Today, there are 95% of macroquanauts in the hands of six large cultures. I don't think that's good. It is to give more people the opportunity to enter this article and use the resources that have entered our jurisdiction, although we do not know how long it will last. We can do that. We don't have to, as the bill for the council shows, put the mackerel in the quota and the deed in the long run. Of course, it is a complete failure to do so, and the next government in the long run is completely being tied up, and this system is being forced down in a comparable way as we live in the system we live in. I think we can get good off the mackerel by using a more mixed route, looking at rents from the sala, and some other means can be considered in case of switching, not uncool marketing solutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u223	A respectable president. I think it's important that we start by reminding ourselves of the basics that I think we all agree on. I think we can all be proud because Iceland is a powerful fishing road. Here's a sustainable fishing route and sustainable fishing process, I think you can claim that. Seafood companies are strong, and they make money, but we cannot overlook that, despite this, there has been long - standing disagreements about that system and how we sometimes find ourselves in the sea. It's mostly about the fact that the owner of the quatan, owner of the hunter's rights, doesn't get enough of it. It's also about what I think can be said to be the intervention of the State of this arrangement because the distribution of the government of the fishing warrants has always been controversial. It is really in my mind at least and in the context of this marketing intervention. Marketing solutions are wonderful in their own environment. If you have a house and want to sell it, you look for an offer, and you can't reason with what people are willing to pay for the house, they just compete for the house. That's a fair arrangement. Fortunately, we are in a place where we have an Icelandic seabed that we can adopt this reasonable arrangement for sharing these limited quality. I think it's wonderful. Then we wouldn't have to reason on the part of the nation anymore, the fish-fishers themselves, make a personal decision on what they are willing to pay for their authority. That would be fair. [[The president calls.]] At that arrangement, we could not reason, and it would be in my view what all of us are trying to reach out for, which is acceptable to the water.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u224	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about the operating system of fishing, market solutions in the fishing road. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir, for taking this matter on the program. It is worthy and needed to debate in the context of the fact that there is a constant appeal for the nation to get a larger share of the resource, larger than that. The government system we've built, the quota system, is based on a market solution based on fishing warrants and has truly returned income to national preparation and guaranteed responsible, sustainable fishing and operating sea transport. The Icelandic fishing industry is the only one within OECD that is not a government scholarship at the time it pays - and I now aim at 2013 - about half of its profits and production to the population in the form of hunting fees, income taxes, and insurance bills, up to 30 billion. We can then ask ourselves, " What are the benefits and flaws of the system mentioned here? ' At the same time, you ask yourself if such a system will lead to greater gain and more reconciliation than so. Perhaps so, but we need to know where we are coming from in order to make such a dramatic decision. Of course, the economic goals for the management of the industry, what it can do to return to society, and on the other hand, to sectoral and based views. It may be said that there is a conflict between economic or economic goals and social goals. I cannot see how to avoid, if the practicality is to be achieved by such systems, increased compression in this article, and then at the expense of working abroad, and the level of produce in the local community. Depending on how compatible the objectives are, they can be maximal yields, stakeholders on smaller companies in many countries, and increased settlements for the desired resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u225	Madam President. Something I forgot to mention earlier. From earlier on, I spoke of the equality between the real owner of the resource, the nation, at least by law, and the like of those who have purchased permission to hunt. Another situation, as I mentioned earlier, is that about 5% a year goes to the nation and would be rented out on the market until 20 years of age, which would then ensure forethought in this article but also that over a period of time, even a 20 - year period, the market value would be paid for its possession, its possession. Then the question is, as the members of the council have mentioned, that it could then mean compression in the article, etc., yes. This could mean that unless it was set in such a way that equality is also guarded, because the arrangement as it is today has been invested in smaller or larger boats. However, in order to ensure equality, they could be placed in the market at different sizes of boats in different locations of the country. You could make sure of this. Then, in fact, the politics would be meddling in these views over as many countries as after the size of boats and when people have invested and then, but the nation would always get the market money, what the market could pay to use this resource of the nation. This is not a real national property if the nation cannot get the market value for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u226	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, it's been very good, thank you for the many things both of us have. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers have come in. There's a lot of things I wanted to come on. First of all, I might not quite know what community. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson lives at home, but in the community I live in, the fishing cover is not satisfied. We're talking something in a cross. But as I studied in my speech, I'm not counting the saying of the saying, and the self-sustainment that was initiated when it started 30 years ago. I'm counting that in 2015, when there's a whole other year's trip, we're doing a good job on the fishing grounds, we're still going to pass fishing clearances. There's only one thing about it now. It has indeed been the highest form of evolution. A minister went over here, but may I understand that we are at the end of the line, that we can't make better? I'd like to propose marketing solutions in the fishing road to make better progress. Of course, there are some things that need to be considered and auctiones will mean changes. As a minister said, all agree on this, and economists agree that these changes are made to the nation; they agree on that, but on changing grounds. We may not be able to fight the industrial revolution, and there is a growing need for fewer and fewer hands in fishing, but we need to make the money differently, and that is what we do by offering up resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u227	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. There's a lot of interesting going on here. In the case of the prime speaker, it was first found that it was being assigned to a mackerel without charge. Hv. After all, the original - language process was not correct, since both fishing fees and additional fees are laid. The situation in Iceland is that we're in the game, and I know the senators are happy about it when I say this, the best fishing road in the world. It is also OECD and various highly respected institutions that value the system we live in. Here this system returns a very high salary for sailors, productive fishing roads, which have yielded overgrowth for several decades. There are no national grants, but there is still a wide variety of fishing roads all over the country, although there is certainly much to be done in rural areas. Would an auction system at this time have built up the same position? I don't think so, even. because of the experience of various other nations they have tried. I welcome the official statement made by the left-green... that it is wise to go as high as possible. Even if we do not agree exactly about the process, the minister and the Ministry suggest that we do not agree on it. On the other hand, representatives of the United States and the Bears of the future must explain how they are going to meet various smaller coastal areas, how they should live. It's been absolutely lacking in this discussion where people have been talking about providing maximum yields. One representative suggested that this produce a maximum yield, which would also be of great benefit for all the habitats of the country. Clearly, that is not the fact. The problem with that is--it sounds nice to offer just a little bit of each year -- that it's just a theoretical problem that we always get perimeter prices that aren't really market prices, i.e. The price we receive every year, that is why most of the nations that run the ocean have not gone out into an auction. [[The president calls.]] But have we considered it? Yeah, we've been looking at it. We have learned that the way we have it is very good, yes, we have found it. Why should we dismiss the way that is believed to be the best in the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u228	Madam President. I have to come up here and talk about the President's conference board. Because of words at the top. A sea chief minister could understand my words so that I would agree with the Supreme Court proposals. Ministers about the mackerel, but we were only able to discern the route. It's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u229	It's not a discussion...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u230	I completely disagree that the mackerel should be tormented in the way suggested, and the resource should be given over a long period of time and paid for some small price. I disagree completely with the ultimate route. A minister proposes and wants to go quite another way to achieve a fair access to this resource to more than a few and a fair amount of it. [[The president calls.]] I've got to get this straight so there's no misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The minister had the last word, and then I must have made the last word in my case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u231	This is about the President's conference board...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u232	A respectable president. The news has now become that just before this time, it was published on the law site of the Hafnarfjörður town of law, from Andri Yearna Árnason of the Supreme Court, which concludes to the highest degree. A minister of education is forbidden to submit to the University of Hafnarfjörður and unite it in a way that he has decided would require the approval of the Generals. The town of Hafnarfjörður also needs to be consulted because the town is committed to the cost of school management from now on. A respectable president. I said here this morning to the highest. A minister of education would be like a swarm of locusts during high school in the country, that is not excessive. I thought the Fish Office dress was enough a reminder to the government to exercise caution when it comes to the use of official power and decision making. I must insist that the matter of the University of Hafnarfjörður will be put on this program as soon as possible and required to the highest level. A minister of education will come here and participate in any further discussion on this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u233	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. The last speaker as to the fact that we've complained a lot about the fact that a president allowed these high school issues to go completely past the council. You can't help it if you're at the highest. The Minister of Education will come here and understand. There has already been a request for a discussion and an open meeting in the General and Education Committee, but, of course, he has to come here and explain these decisions to the council. A respectable president. I asked this morning if any Minister would agree to take on this suit, the environment, and stay here until the discussion ends, if it ends. There's been no answers to that. I was so happy in my heart as I thought it would be. The former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, would be here for the discussion, but he's gone from house to house. I'd like to ask you this question: Is there anyone at the top? A minister who will be involved in this case in the absence of environmental ministers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u234	A respectable president. For one of us at the Group of Congress, the United States of America wished it. paritaprevir A few years ago, after a special discussion at the highest level, Guðbjartur Hannesson Education minister of Illugi Gunnarsson for the union of the high school of Hafnarfjörður or his personal development. In view of the legal nature of a country-known and respected Supreme Court attorney, such as Andri Árnason, that this is a violation of law and that the General Assembly has to be disregarded and the case has to be legally laid before the council, it is absolutely necessary to call the Supreme Court. Immediately, a minister here and set this special discussion on the program so that he can give an answer in order that he will illegally avoid the council. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u235	A respectable president. Let's do the highest. A minister of education in the past few weeks has seen little or nothing here at the council has been likened to a dark task. I have to say right now, more dignified President, that I'm going to agree with that description. We have a legal opinion. paritaprevir In the early years, Páll Árnason, president of the United States, briefly crossed over, stating that the Law to explain high school law expected that after school only the approval of the General Assembly would be laid down. He also says that the advice of the Ministry of Education and Culture on changing the activities of the Industrial School of Hafnarfjörður would be considered equivalent to the demolition of the school and that such a decision is subject to the ultimate payment of the General Assembly and funds for the school. A respectable president. I must say exactly as it is, it is time for this council to act on this government. There are people walking around here, just like they don't have to ask the legislature, change the national educational policy, make decisions about not doing anything in the labour market, stop discussions with the European Union, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's enough, you respectable president. These men must be called here and they must begin to account for their actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u236	Madam President. I want to say something. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason, chairman of the United States, who agrees with him on his request that the discussion of the unity of the Gilead School in Hafnarf and the Technical School will be started right away. As noted in the media, rather than here in the Assembly Hall, one of the pure staff schools was to go to a private school without discussing it in a Senate Hall. That's a turning point in school. It is not likely that it will contribute to and increase the number of students in training in the country. I also agree with the wish that here will be the discussion that has been requested and will be longer than usual.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u237	V.E.G. President. Even if we considered the matter presented here, it would be arranged and it could really be discussed that there are other and more urgent matters that are already being discussed. That's why I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Páll, the son of Árnason, to the height of his years. The Minister of Education must appear here and represent his case and the changes he is implementing in Icelandic school systems. There are other issues we have been talking about in these last days that need to be scheduled - just the order of matters that need to be discussed, all the more urgent than what is now under consideration. That's why, chief. President, we need others and a change of schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u238	Madam President. They have been criticized recently and now because of what they did. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason to the Ministry of Education seem to pass through the country and talk about unity without any visit to the Generals. They must push this case aside and start discussing the serious issues at the council, such as the latest regarding the privatization of the high school of Hafnarfjörður and the legal opinion available there. They cannot be offered to representatives of the National Institutes of Education for the United States without any access to it. We can't live with that kind of thing. A minister of education and he must come here and speak his language, and members of Congress must be able to discuss these matters in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u239	A respectable president. It is essential that the president agree on how we can continue our regular meetings because there are many matters to be discussed and it is urgent to discuss them. In this context, it is said that this is a matter of speaking with the Ministry of Education. His training for importing the Gilead School at Hafnarfjörður is now a legal opinion. He's breaking up his high school system. There's a rumor that there's something going on with music courses in the country, something up there, some horrible stories you hear about it. There's a secretary need to be asked about that. A respectable president. Then, naturally, we need to talk because this society is stopping, and it will stop in ten days or something like that. [[The president calls.]] It'll be not just the assembly that's stopped, it's the whole society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u240	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's years for attracting the attention of the Generals on this legal program to the union of the Industrial School of Hafnarfjörður at Iceland's Technical School, which claims that according to Andri explanation, the Generals' approval of putting such a school into another school is required. I also mention this in connection with high school education. Minister announces, according to the same law data, i.e. The commission of a greater part of the Education Committee at the time of the approval of the high school law made it clear that the law intended to enhance the flexibility and professional independence of the schools. The intention would not be to impair the content of study for the student's test. In case of a moment. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason years had not come and presented this to us, no doubt we would have heard of it because it has not been the highest style. Minister to come here and present his case for the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I need to ask you everything. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to draw Generals' attention and the highest. A president says that I have been asking questions since early April about whether to combine high school before these reports began to appear in the media, and I still haven't had the opportunity to ask the highest level. Minister of this one. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I agree with the demands here that will be heard to get a minister to answer for his case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u241	V.E.G. President. I've kept saying in my discussion that the most basic things we need to discuss right now are, but a frame plan is the choice of debate, and that's the education thing. Now, it's just another confirmation, I've had a request for a special discussion about what I call subjugation of the high school of Hafnarfjörður because they are being put down, that method is being used, and put under the Technical School to get rid of certain duties of senior schools. This is determined after a game preview and then almost 24 hours a day. There's no discussion, it's as if the fear is so great that if anyone gets involved with the case at the General or the public or the local community or any local people, then all hell up. Or what? That the minister's desire is to do what is best on his way to what he or she wants to do. We cannot live with this arrangement in compromises, such as. Health and education, where there is no need to settle differences. There's no reason to argue. We share the same objective, but they are being torn apart by some decision at the highest level. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u242	A respectable president. I realize that it may be possible to deal with, I've been in the position of having to bring some difficult cases into this council, and it's because you have to deal with people who may not have entirely the same opinion as you do, but you just do. That government, however, has made a decision not to do so. She feels uncomfortable entering the council and having conversations about a matter that she is discussing at one time. A respectable president. This legal opinion tells us that what we were most worried about is happening, i.e. to the maximum. The Minister of Education is that the education system is radically altered without its worsening. It must be serious to think that the matter needs to be addressed. Let's cut the crap. Let us take the box off the program and discuss what is important. Ministers are not to be self-involved about the government of the country. [[The president calls.]] They are to have regular discussions with the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] And if not on such a matter, well, what, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u243	Madam President. I come up here to join them. Councilmen who have spoken about this matter. I'm very worried about what's going on in education and how it's the highest. The Minister of Education will be held. I don't doubt that he's doing well, but it says in the government policy declaration that she's going to focus on furthering the education system with the interests of all students and people and that she's going to do so closely with all stakeholders. When it comes to national education, isn't the People's Council a stake? That's what I was wondering. It doesn't matter where you kill in education - it's the White Book, it's a educational institution, and now this community school - there's no consultation with people, not one. I think it's very serious. We're here to participate in it at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u244	A respectable president. I wanted to ask a respected president who is currently on the President's chair if there are any discussions with the council members about how to resolve the knot we are in so that regular programs can be arranged and discussed the fundamental issues that exist. We're talking about education now. That's the chicken business. Society is stopping. The country will lose a lot of money, and even though things are going our way now, we won't have too much of them. Are there discussions about solving this knot over this unfortunate possibility of more part of the employment board to break the framework?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u245	Madam President. This, of course, is reprehensible, as it has been shown in the way high school has been conducted. I and a dignified president now sitting in the President's chair have been discussing that matter only. This is not only serious for our district, which is now faced with great unity, but it has to do with the whole country. Because the discussion here began with the cohesion of Technical School and the middle school of Hafnarfjörður, it's so clear that it's not a unit, it's a takeover. It is quite clear that this is the conclusion that the school at Hafnarfjörður is decommissioned and taken entirely by Hafnarfjörður. We're dealing with a lot of jobs, like the ones we're already facing in the North East, which is totally unacceptable, and wherever it was on the land, this is happening in the way this is happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u246	A respectable president. Of course, the big news that has become with the legal aid of Andri's Árnason is that it requires immediate discussion at the council. Thus, the country is expected to be wide - wide with rural communities, looking to a good lawyer or others, and considering whether their decomposition will also be legal. There's always a chance that you won't. V.E.G. A minister of education has quit school with a 90 - year - old story in Hafnarfjörður and has handed it over to a private company in the city. It's my favorite. I asked here today how long the government council members in the country were going to stay silent during the time of the Supreme Court. In the country, a minister of education goes down one progressive school after another. But a man must also ask the council members of the Southwestern district that hold together the lives of this government in his hand, members of the administrations from it, how long must the government's harassment against Hafnarfjörður go? We've seen the Fish Room dress. [[The president calls.]] And now it's clear that there's a bad deal going on in the middle school business. [[The president calls.]] How far should this attack by the government against Hafnarfjörður? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u247	A respectable president. I have nothing to report to the President's conference board. But I'm going to agree with this team to agree that here is a special discussion of the process that seems to be going on together in school without putting down school and what has been discovered at the University of Hafnarfjörður and the opinion presented here. I'm the 3rd. We're out of here. and believe that it is important that we be informed of the apparent mechanism and why. I agree with what. Árnason In fact, I'm not going to use the word harassment against Hafnarfjörður, but it is worth considering that government ministers are going to transfer government agencies from a local community to the capital area. I care about the Fish Room in Hafnarfjörður as I do school in Hafnarfjörður, and I care about school there. As a member of the district convention, I agree with those who have spoken here that we receive a special discussion with the highest degree. Minister on these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u248	Madam President. I'm happy to hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Ragnheins the granddaughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, chairman of the Independence Party. It is possible that someone might find the highest. The managers of this government conveniently spent all their time discussing the proposal for a change in the framework under discussion, but the fact is that there are many other issues in society that have to do with the benefit of the public very much. We've mentioned the dresser thing, but it's a date-to-date decision in school, whether it's short or reduced high school school education, which is a valid return from that range and freedom to identify the 2008 high school law and the highest. A minister has not been able to fully appreciate how he feels that he is compatible with that spirit, apart from the unity of schools that will have enormous influence, not just in Hafnarfjörður but throughout the country. Of course, school is a heart in every large and small community. [[The president calls.]] So it is a policy-making decision that is needed and to be discussed at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's only plain courtesy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u249	Madam President. I find it most reprehensible that we have had some requests at the highest level of conversation. A minister of education on school matters, and then you hear in the media that he is making decisions, even making irreversible things, or at least something that takes a lot of time to wind off, in school matters. I think it's the best. The president simply does not treat his program properly. Of course. President calling the Minister here, putting the school affairs on schedule, thus enabling us to discuss the most urgent issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u250	Madam President. We have been led to believe that it did not require the arrival of the Generals to bring down the high school of Hafnarfjörður, that members of Congress could do anything and not do anything at all. A minister has authority there and that it is sufficient to inform him in a text with a budget bill that there is the possibility of making changes in high school. It's been claimed to us why. Senators. We have naturally viewed it as very strange, and we have been told that when the school in Reykjavík was laid down and combined with the Theocratic Ministry School, it did not require the arrival of the General Assembly. But now we have a legal opinion in our hands, and it is essential in such a big matter that is of the only support of the welfare system. Ministers immediately come to a conversation that will not be simple, but that will be longer than usual. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u251	V.E.G. President. I want to pray to the highest. President to discuss it on the Presidency Committee and generally note how important it is for the General to have a chance to perform his surveillance work with the executives, since this is our part. There have been efforts to establish laws based on a particular policy, and there's a pretty good box for the highest. Minister to abide by that law. Then, suddenly, there's a certain group, or something of the highest. Ministers who take power far beyond what was expected in the beginning and thus destroy that idea and form of work. They go as far as they possibly can and a hairpiece so how much law is needed, etc. I challenge the highest. The president's recording of this and discussing how we can best take care of our surveillance role, because the answers we receive to written inquiries and requests for discussion, e - mails sent by a man as a member of the committee, requests meetings in committees, it's most unpleasant. Often you have not wanted to go to the platform to discuss this because you have been expecting things to be resolved, but unfortunately it has not worked out. [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of concern for the highest. President and Prime Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u252	Madam President. There's not a lot of news left in case. A minister of education forces a privateisation of large parts of the school system, apparently via lawbreakers. That's what's going on here. I cannot help but insist on the demands that have been made, including ... fromwhat. Class president of the Independence Party, of the immediate attention of this matter at the council. According to the Senate, members of Congress have demanded that ministers come to a meeting at the council when they wish to discuss specific matters. I don't think this case can take any special wait. I'm not prepared to wait for the ultimate. Minister will come and discuss this with us tomorrow. We have a meeting scheduled to continue until midnight. I'm of the highest opinion. A minister of education must step out of his hiding place and come here and represent him. There's no way he's going through school like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u253	A respectable president. I would like to say again that I have nothing to report to the President's conference board, but it was in those words to make a announcement from the council to the U.S.A. until 2:30 tomorrow that a special discussion will begin with the Supreme Court. Minister of Education at the request of the Sagas Svavarsdóttir. So it is already a unit of school and the flexible system of high school. It is as if we were finally joined by some higher power and pulled this into the direction requested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u254	Madam President. Now I've come to this discussion about framework and adjustment proposals. I gave a what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir after the first time I was supposed to be here. The discussion that has taken place here in the past few days has been extremely informative and useful to a man like me who has not too much knowledge of a frame plan. I remember when I was in Grindavik's town government, and we got this, and we were supposed to read it, and after a few pages I just froze my brain because it's a very complicated and important matter. As I said earlier, I feel that there are many talks here that have been very good and meaningful. Ex-fiancé. Ministers and current senators have made it clear to us new members of Parliament how this has worked out and how it worked out during the last term. Looks like who's doing this. I have to say for my part that I think it's kind of amazing in view of the fact that there's been a collapse, as it has often been, seven years ago. I feel like we're going back in the same direction where there was a collapse. It was written a study report entitled Following the Fall of the Grand Banks in 2008 and related events that were very careful and good literature that gave us guidance on how to do things better. It was a costly report, and many have now complained about it. I'm quite ready to agree with them anyway. People who have complained that this is too expensive - of course, it is expensive if we do not heed it. I think it's key to making reports like this and putting money in them from a government fund that we talk about them and try to learn from them. How can we build a good society? During the 53 years I've lived this blessed community has always been on fire in some quarrel. We're in the middle of a fight all the time. V.E.G. President. In this matter, there are so much more and more tests than activations, energy efficiency, environment, and nature protection, though the issues are of utmost importance in many ways for the quality of life and the quality of life of all present Iceland and also for generations that will live in the future. Clearly, in these matters we need to be careful especially, for what we do now has a profound impact on everyone in this country now and forever, and the effects are very often irreversible. That I know is politics to improve the quality of life of people in the land with a great responsibility toward those who will inherit the land. Among other things, quality of life is living in a society that sets up good and predictable guidelines for how decisions that concern the great interests of all people are prepared and taken, and that guidelines are respected. This is especially about peace and trust, as has often been said in many cases during this discussion. People, whose social situation is so desirable, can easily be corrupted, even lost by authority and freckles, and with disrespect for other people, their interests, and their opinions. They all know that it is much easier to accept a decision in a case that you do not agree with and even completely disagree, if you know that it has been well prepared and taken on the basis of a well - chosen game rule that will be followed in good faith. Respect has been based on guidelines that have ensured that all views and information that are relevant and that the level and the level and importance of these games have been established and have been balanced between important factors that may be weighed. As I said, as far as I am concerned, society is most desirable because it increases people's quality of life and also contributes to trust and goodwill and thus more economic prosperity. The research of scholars and international financial institutions, such as the World Bank, confirms this, unmistakably. Good, clear guidelines that ensure careful discussion and transparent and professional evaluation of the interests to be weighed are always important, but especially in terms of interests that the nation has strong opinions and that do not go together in all ways as appropriate in this matter. A respectable president. If governments are not equipped to handle such situations, there is a great danger that governments will divide the nation from one side to another and break peace between people. This can lead to deep distrust and long - term and serious harm to the quality of life, politics, and the economy. This has proved true. But in a small country, such as ours, it is especially painful, among a small nation. Sadly, we Icelanders have not been good enough to approach our issue and solve it carefully, i.e. Clear and predictable guidelines that ensure careful interests, as I have said, and respect for opposing opinions. Opinions on efficiency, energy efficiency, environment and nature protection are a textbook on a matter of great importance, in which special preparation and decisions are needed and for all ways to reconcile the opposite viewpoint not only because of those living in this country but also for future generations. That's a natural key. It is, therefore, very positive and positive, and it was an important and significant step in Icelandic politics and administration when the Law on Framework was adopted. Then, after a very large number of jobs, the groundwork and tools that were widely agreed to discuss and prepare and make decisions on matters of such great interest and deep feelings in the nation of all nations were achieved, as the aim of a series of guidelines is to evaluate and sort of activation options. The framework of the programme provides a basis for setting priorities in terms of the services of society, the maintenance of natural quality, the support of national development, and the interests of all those who use these same benefits with sustainable development guided by it. By overstepping laws on the frame plan, such as the greater part of the employment committee, it seems to be doing what has happened here. Councilmen, thereby trying to undermine the careful methods of preparation and making decisions that the law guarantees and the reconciliation in the community that they promote not only them but also completely unnecessary risks that could cause us to take undistracted measures and not sufficiently thought - provoking decisions about fortresses and nature protection, which we can do against if we act in accordance with the law and do so in good faith and honesty. Such disrespect and persecution will be out of the question, as it seems to be, an important and important attempt to overcome the problems and political affairs of this country. So that one breaketh the law, and breaketh peace. What makes sense? What the hell are you doing that for? President? They have a lot of responsibility to treat the important and important experiments in the framework, to ensure that the objective evaluation of the interests in which weighing, careful, transparent treatments for preparation and decisions, broad consultations and respect for diverse viewpoints, and, above all, greater peace in society over the short and long periods of time. This is a huge deal. It's not like we're about to start building junk on the Þjórður bridge, these are three, even four of the continuum transfunctioners we're discussing. The more part of the employment committees I consider to be a major step back on this country's better politics and administration, a return to a very bad way of governing. It's unacceptable and really annoying. It is not surprising that if this is approved, there will be a very black day in Icelandic politics. I know they're big words. But I'm not accusing those who put more things on a professional committee. These are men who are at work and who disagree with us. But what I was saying here is that they're going against the peace we were trying to achieve in these matters. Unfortunately, it seems that the government's activities have been very successful in destroying and throwing away all the good work that was done during the last term. A board plan has been in the process for about 16 years, if I don't forget. I think it's sad. It doesn't have to be this way. When this proposal was submitted, everything went wrong. They're what they were. Those who submitted it can be sure that it would be successful. I don't think it's incorrigible. They've accused us in the lesser part of language and boring, but it's entirely available to them. The administrative part has this situation that is now totally in debt. The situation in society has been discussed in a talk chair, and it is not as good as arguing about it. Ex-fiancé. Environment Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson proposed to Hadhem activation, which had gone through a project management process. It was natural that there was considerable agreement over the legal process. We would not have opposed that, Senators Brights, the future. The matter would have been routine inside the council because it had a legal procedure. We were very opposed to the correction, but were we keeping matters here for days because of it? No, it was a matter that the government offered, and it was her campaign and campaign. We never went up in the public talk program on meeting management in that case. However, we went up and talked about the President's conference board and delayed the case when the preordained minister's motion on breaking the EU contract was submitted, which is naturally some of the most amazing betrayal of a promise in Iceland history, in my case. Then they threw them under foot. We are also commanded to listen to the nation. We cannot always say in solemn talk that we listen to the nation and proclaim better politics, direct democracy, but then we don't hurt anything by it. It's incredibly ugly. I've come up with answers, and I've been talking about the President's conference board on this matter, talking about a letter that was sent to me from the council members of the Southern District. I don't know if any senators got it. The letter comes from one hunting partner and 38 farmers who live on the back of a three - year - long river. I think this is the most important thing in this discussion, Mr. President - out of the framework and project management is this most important piece of work. These are the people who live in the area. I'll be able to read from this letter, with president's permission: ▪ Become of action, three foundation blocks form a riverbed. It reduces flourishing forces on both sides of the river, where commercial farming is now being practiced. It is large lakes that will drown vegetation and soil as they lie on the banks of the river. And the land of Tun and the land of bait shall disappear under the waters and the heaps of wormwood. For example, it is estimated that from the bottom of the larval space, Uryrofos has to be removed 1.5 million cubic meters [1.5 million cu m] of material to be activated. This material will be placed between country baths by the river. During the operating time of the incision, you will need to pump a precipitate at intervals, including The glaciers, from the lagoons above the stiffs; for the aura of the river will fall from the highlands until the bottom. The quantity of this inflatable material will be pumped into countries by millions of cubic feet. The lagoons will all be on the scene of a major earthquake, where the land in many parts of the world is highly cremated after the terrestrial shocks of the past century. I just think it's a very serious matter, Mr. President. It has been discussed in this public talk about moving, and people are being evicted from their lands. It is indicated in this letter that for over a thousand years farmers have lived on these costly soils that are there. I read DV over a year ago when farmers were talking to him at Þjórður, and they said that the war for Indomination was just beginning. If this is the case, whale explosion, if we just take it as an example, farmers and candidates with the Þjótur will go to war with the authorities. That's for sure. Is that what we want? Is that what we would like, to be in an eternal war within the land, to be carried by the death of that nation, all along, one of the richest peoples in the world? It's not like we have to hurry to activate. There are 18 thousand gigava hours produced in the country, 13 ◯14 thousand of which need to be made in industry. Yet, my district's three-phase electricity is missing, in a Skaftyear crisis, and it knows what. Councilmen of the Southern District here. Why don't we focus on trying to help these people get electricity and build up jobs in this area? The letter says how much electricity is produced here, it's only about a thousand megawatts. If these activations in the lower part of the Tube are added then less than 60% of all the electricity generation of hydropower plants will be land induction in the lakes and in the river's waters will be covered. Last year I made a trip to serve the 4X4 club in a wilderness and in the highlands. I'm not much of a curfew, I admit it, but going to the highland was wonderful and unforgettable. We ended up driving along the Þjórðar. There are many of the inducers, as you know, above that, Burrhetic activation, Breast cell activation, Investigation, and Curbus activation. They're all over there. I personally feel that we should give this time off there, in this beautiful valley, the Valley of the Snow, and those who live there. Let's put the interests of the candidates ahead of the continuum transfunctioners. Where are you going with the power? You're gonna take it out of the district. You're gonna take it up to Hölfunda as the televisionman, Sölvi Tryggvason, called Murmansk Scandinavia - he's turning into a wire and a major industrial plant. Are we going to use this electricity to help a South American gardener, pay off the electricity expenses that have been killing us for decades, and have we always been promised to take off and help? No. And what do the people in the South say about this? We've heard it on our district trips that people want electricity to build some industry in the region, but they don't mean to take it there. We have differing opinions on this matter. I want nature and people, especially in this area, to enjoy the doubt. We're supposed to listen to it. We can't go on forever. Why couldn't these three advantages just wait until the project management evaluated them? Then it could've been made, then it would've been legal. According to my sources, it will be at the beginning of the next year and even before. Hv. Senators are in charge of a certainty that this situation would be a disaster if they submitted it. This is sad. I can totally agree with senators like what they are. paritaprevir My Ásmundur Friðriksson, from the South Curbourg, that it is not acceptable to invite the nation to do so, especially in our current year tour, which is another arm. Why is the situation in society amazing? Vocabularies in the Þjórðar will not solve the case or raise the salary in this country, such as the highest. The prime minister insisted. In recent years, the seabed is extremely well - equipped, making remarkable profits. Tourism is growing out of control and creating the most currency in the world. We're seeing the revenue numbers from the store up to billions of dollars. The banks, so I don't talk about them, make a lot of astronomy. Yet, in 2015, we are now in a fight of men in this country. There's a terrible situation in society. We're supposed to focus on that, chief. President, trying to solve it. I challenge it. Congress members of a large part of the workforce to retract and resolve this situation. They can once again suggest the other activations, or environmental minister, when the project management has completed its procedure. It's very difficult, as I said in my speech earlier, to fight a case when you know it's been worked to the best of its ability and legality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u255	Mr. President. This situation is up to the point, and we need to figure it out in some way. I think it exists. I believe that it would, in the case of the council here, be able to deliver the proposal that originally appeared, which had the only activation, and they just vote for it; then it becomes clear whether there is more to it or not. It has been reported that the most important thing for those who want to wait is that the so - called salmon fields are analyzed. It involves three of the activations in the lower part of the Year, and I myself believe that nothing further can be investigated there. However, what needs to be done is to get a foreign institution or a respected neutral scholar to pass through the data available on subspecies in foreign lands and to determine whether it is likely to be of benefit or not. When this is the case, it can be taken up again and after the events agreed or canceled. That settles the matter. It's as simple as that. It's not what. A senator agreed with me that it was the easiest thing to do in this position? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u256	V.E.G. President. Yes, perhaps it is. But as I said about the frame plan and this case earlier, I don't have a complete sense of what's happening there, but I've been trying to read about it. Of course, it would be fine if things could be handled this way. But to me, this case is incredibly focused on the people in the area, and there's no need to activate. That's my opinion, and I'm sticking to it. Although I would quite agree that she would be on the program and these cases would be complete, I probably wouldn't approve. But I know why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson knows much more about salmon and salmon fish than I do, and I believe what he says, simply because he has a lot more experience in this case than I do, besides that he's been in Congress longer. If it's a solution, I'd accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u257	One of these activations, and one of the least of them, is the Scorpio, 30 megawatts, is of no importance. However, it is significant that it is on the edge of the central highlands. This activation is hardly going to be able to stand alone without being built up by some kind of power structure. It must also be built on high ground. In effect, we are accepting construction inside the central highlands. In connection with it, we will discuss two other geochemists that are to be done with the Boy Scouts under the Highway, the Highways I and II. Men have also been talking about a line over an explosion land and in connection with it a road above an explosion. My conclusion when I see it all is this: I think the Icelandic people need to take a special look at whether they're happy that they're going to be attacked in the middle of the country, and I feel that I'm really not related to this. But I mention it because that's why I've been saying here, that it's untimely to attack in The Devil. [[The president calls.]] Then we're going into the middle of the country. This need to be considered in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u258	Mr. President. Yeah, I totally agree with what. A senator about that, of course, should take up a discussion in society and inform people as well as we can when we discuss such a big matter, because it's a big deal. And in the case of Tank, I'm not a professional committee, but I'm very interested in the country and its people. People have cast it out here in speech and literature: What are we doing by performing the Crooky? Though underground, we need lines, and we need a built - up road. Some would like to say that this is the entrance to the central highlands, when there is no reactivated, because you want to get into that area. One good man wrote that she was a trojan horse catalyst to enter the central highlands by initial activation of the rock - mass. As mentioned in the case of what? It really doesn't matter to a senator. It's so small. I agree that we're supposed to introduce it and make decisions with the nation on such a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u259	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for a good speech, a good input, that's all I expected. I agree with him about the language that has been done here. It's not acceptable, is it? This programme on a national protection and efficiency programme is a third part of the program for this Day of Congress. Congress began at 10:00 this morning. I guess the smaller part has stepped into this pontoon about 200 times since then and spends our time on a small scale. I'd like to ask you what. Because of his ability to speak of these 38 people, I appreciated them, how he felt when a former environmental minister refused to accept the main group of Flohapps that stopped all projects there and was judged both in the subjugation and the Supreme Court because of the issue, whether this was not the beginning of the agreement. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u260	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. With this code of speech, I don't quite agree that it's a filibuster. This is a matter that needs to be discussed, and there is a disagreement with the President's conference board, that the matter is scheduled, and then they have this team to comment on it. Senators may know that, perhaps not. A senator holds, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Brá, the Konráðsdóttir of Conspira, who was sitting here during the last term, found that it was quite used then and perhaps laid the foundation of what it is today. But I'm not going to blame anyone or anyone. Hv. A senator said that we had conducted a session 200 times on a meeting board... [[Estimated.]] Estimated. Some of these have been conducted 80 times in a public hearing for the President's conference board. As for the Flea case, I have to admit I'm not entirely involved. I read about it back then, and wasn't the Environment Minister being judged for this? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Yeah, the law's broken. I mean, she was doomed for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u261	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. Senator. This, of course, was the beginning of the problem and then the change on frame 2 that was, of course, very bad too. Of course, in 2015 I agree with the three - phase electricity crisis, it's not acceptable that it's not yet arrived, it should have been here a long time ago, and is not related to any activation. To make the country more viable, it should have been long ago. I'd like to ask you what. A Parliamentary on Lake Hags, although water activation has been decided to be reduced. It was clearly seen that the activation was to be the service of climatic farmers and was to be a ground cord from the activation, allowing both a shrinking sandstorm and a direct linking to activities in the countryside. Was that not so important? In fact, it would also be a private project that would have helped the people of the country, especially the ones in the Blue Forest, and the rural communities around it especially wanted that activation. [[The president calls.]] Would it not have been better to go to their will then?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u262	Mr. President. Yes, it might have been possible to do so. Did it have been overrun by the task management board? You see, it wasn't yet. When it's done, I could totally agree to activate it. I've done a little bit of the district like all of us in this district, we've been travelling around, and there seems to be people's language up in the Blue Forest and elsewhere that they want this activation. Would you like me to oppose it? I can't. It may well be that I'm against her, but they're the ones in charge. I am a member of the Southern District and indeed the whole country, and I think it's so important that we listen to the people of the country when we talk about these things. Whatever the case, whether it is about the fishing or the energy, we need to work at getting as much money as possible. But if New York's departments want this activation to cover electricity costs and even use energy for further construction, then I'm not putting myself against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u263	President Hithv. I want to thank you. A senator for a fine talk, though, we do not agree in all things, certainly not. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who was here quoting a report by the Allegis Research Committee and a change in practice was able to improve the practice of working accordingly. A senator is a party representative who offered the premise to change the practice here, to be positive, to try to get good things done, and not to participate in old-fashioned politics. This was discussed in the study report, and as members of the Council Committee, which discussed the report, we concluded a conclusion that included: It is said that Icelandic politics have not developed sufficiently in line with the facts that the Council should be the stage of a debate that takes into account the public interest, a good political approach was achieved by the conflicting views that are based on facts and that the matter is being analyzed. I feel very lacking in this topic of discussion. They are in the President's conference board instead of having a material discussion on the matter and with reason, as we were on the Senate Committee measuring out that people did.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u264	V.E.G. President. Yeah, you're right next door. A senator, this is what he says, who named us in the bright future and how we were going to try to change politics. I believe we've had an excellent effect here at the council since the election season began. We've been treating everyone with courtesy and respect, and we haven't done any language. This is the first case in which we speak so badly because men are completely at odds with it, overly disagreeing. That's why, not all of us, but some of us, are about to go up to the President's conference board to let him know that we're not comfortable with the fact that this case is on. Of course, no matter where we are, all of us are going to try to improve our communication and especially our consultation at a council. I'm on a committee where the dog is. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttsdóttir is president, and our cooperation on the contrary has been exemplary, that's all I'm saying. And that's how we should have it at council, too, always.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u265	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with the senator that there is a very good partnership with the Committee that we're conducting together, the General and Education Committee. But there is not always such a good spirit in the chamber. Of course, that's because we're here live and it affects the way people talk, that's just the fact of it, it seems to me. Hv. A senator referred to this, and he gave a talk about the fact that we in the government class are breaking up peace by making these adjustments. When that chapter of the senator's talk was held, I looked up and thought: " These are exactly the exact words I took in my discussion when the previous government gave its suggestions on a structure through the council. They went against the main objective of all the work to try to make peace with their viewpoint by treading in changes that were to be accepted by the government classes. That was my experience. I was on the project board. It was my experience, and I could have given that speech, and I kind of kept it a few years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u266	V.E.G. President. Yes, it can be. But now it's 2015, and it's a new government. If the first government has forced it through by hand and political horse purchases, as is often said of them, I feel that it is not justified in this government's doing so. She should have dealt with this and made it quite different, respecting the process that had come through, whether it was done with some horse shop or something else, that was adopted at the council, that's the law, that you followed them, and that was a good example. That's what you guys were for, and we were all here to be good role models and work together on things. Putting in these three activation options -- it was quite known that it would be all wrong here, you just found it. You could have avoided it, and then you could say proudly: We are not working as the last government did.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u267	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's excellent and objective speech. Thank you so much for letting us talk about this subject under the right side. As a matter of fact, I don't agree with him that there's a terrible situation in society. I don't think we should have these numbers, I think we should have an upbuilding discussion instead. I do not minimize these letters from local farmers, the local people, and I realize that there are some sacrifices in this regard. But the activation option in lower deck wound got a full house ladder from all the professionals in frame 2 so I'd like to ask him a question. A senator whether he believes that we should make personal evaluations of these matters depending on what the locals say or whether we are going to be considering and paying attention to professional groups that have already worked hard to prepare. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u268	Mr. President. Yeah, we're supposed to be paying attention to professionals, so that's a frame plan. And we are to listen to the people of the land who live in those areas, and these projects will have great and powerful influence. We're supposed to listen to them. I'm not trying to make more of it than it does. It's just a fact, unfortunately. It may not necessarily be our job to resolve a fight, but if the Senator has listened to my talks, I have, ever since I started as a senator two years ago, the government may not be able to settle the public market, but if the senator has listened to my talks, I have, ever since I started as a member of Congress, it would encourage the government to go out with the Allied Council, the local government, the employee organisations, and the professionals, and all kinds of societies. It would have created peace and peace in society, that is what I mean. Thus we can have an effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u269	A respectable president. We're supposed to listen to them, the locals, I totally agree with them. There's a lot of complaints that the energy isn't new in the home, like a whale. A senator entered his talk. I agree, we need to work on that. Hv. A senator participated in this, along with the people here making resource policy for Grindasvíktown, where we say that so and so much of the resource is to be used in the region. That's why I ask, "What do you think?" So if we're going to activate here some natural bulbs and carry it through an earthline to Europe, a senator about a cable? I'd also like to ask him about the Bolts. We both took part in protecting them because we were both in the York government of Grindavik, but the flamethrowers are in the novelty class, along with other activation options of the Smokey Man. [[The president calls.]] How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u270	Mr. President. Yes, now I was only away, sorry for the wording, I went away a bit. But as far as the flamethrowers are concerned, they are some of the most remarkable mines in the country and even globally, and, of course, we are not to be activated there. I can't quite tell you how it happened that they went to a novelty party. This was decided at the time, in fact, almost all the smokeynes were made out of activation. And if HD Orcs were to be chosen there alone, it would activate all the penalties he takes. We see how places were discovered everywhere, and among other things, testing was performed in one area where there is a hungry wound left. Those who have walked through the Smokeman, about our people, know that there is a beautiful wasteland. Of course, in terms of resource policy, all rural areas in the country should set and apply such policies. For example, the rural population in the South has to set up resource policies, they can have our resource policy in Grindasvík, and they can apply it. [[The president calls.]] That's a very good course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u271	Mr. President. There are good talks here. This is a big, serious matter, and the reasoning presented in human talks, such as those presented in a good talk. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son earlier, basically says everything that needs to be said. We're not supposed to go on this trip in this way. When we can put a professional professional professional in the management of their jobs and professional groups, we should not have intervention in the professional process. I think there's every reason to sound the highest. A president to take this matter out of the program and set up other social events that we need to deal with, but the latest example has been made by the Ministry of Education, which is very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u272	A respectable president. At this point, I would like to consult with a respectable president to gather members of the council together, for this discussion is made of digging deeper, the disagreement, as the discussion progresses. This is very important because of the urgency of the issue that we might be able to see that this is not going to take any deeper holes than in the past and that members of Congress meet and we appreciate the situation and do so before further discussions are held. I think it's very important. This is well illustrated in the discourses being conducted. This is, in fact, still fundamental analyses of the rules of the game, fundamental analyses of the laws, etc. This is a discussion that we need to adjust in some way because it does not lead us too much as it is claimed today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u273	A respectable president. My main reason to say goodbye now was that I was going to ask the highest. President on what I asked the highest. President who was here on a chair before. Is the President of the Council trying to solve this knot? That's when I heard it. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, the president of a council of the greens, is not. If that's true, I would like to encourage men to try negotiations, try to solve this knot. There have been many references to how this can be done, for this will continue if a large part of the employment committee is not removed from the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u274	A respectable president. Now I'd like to put long talks on the President's conference board, and I'm next to the speaker's list and I'm looking forward to handling this matter. But I'd like to talk to it that I thought it normal to be the head of a professional committee, the head of this conspiracy all of it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson would be there. He made a special announcement this morning to get support for the fact that a physical argument was presented that the payment of a large part of the workforce would not be legal. I intend to review it in my later case, so I think it would be a pleasure for him to sit in the Senate Hall and observe that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u275	A respectable president. As good as everyone on the rosary comes from the smaller parts that oppose the proposal, but I notice a clear pattern that when members of the greater section enter and describe their views, there is some perplexity of material debate about the matter first. Hv. The members of the greater part are eager to come here and complain that at the end of the meeting for President's board, there is a material debate, which in fact, in my case and in most other cases, except when a respectable president has reminded them to stick to the President's meeting board. In any case, the matter itself is of great benefit. The members of the greater body speak because of the communication that we have come here to possess. I'm encouraging it. Councilmen, also reminding them that every time the members have been asked to do so, the less part members of the section have turned aside from the rosary for members of the greater body. That is because if this is to be done, let us discuss it with each other rather than with our brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u276	V.E.G. President. I find it extremely reprehensible if it's the right thing to say, to the highest degree. The president has not done anything to gather members of the council, trying to cut something off on the program and on the debate over it. It is clear that these disputes will continue unless there are efforts to settle differences of viewpoints, and it is also clear that this will happen only to the highest degree. President's bid for a meeting. As this looks now, I'm sorry, it's a little bit like the highest. The President is on the run from this discussion. Therefore, again and again, I would like to encourage the council presidents and possibly other senators to sit down with a cup of coffee and discuss the matter and discuss some agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u277	Mr. President. Earlier today, it was at the U.S. Hall. Former Environment Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson who originally proposed to the Council. I wish to a respectable president that he would like it at the highest. Minister to bring him here and attend the discussion. I feel that there is good reason for the minister to be under the discussion, and then the minister of the ministry who made the suggestion that we should be considering, not by this adjustment. I think it's normal and it's respect, although we're all supposed to have the same respect, but next up on the rosary is the head of the Continental League, or... paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason No doubt it will be informative to listen to his speech, whether to a minister or to someone else. I'm the highest. The president insists on calling the highest. To the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u278	A respectable president. It is not due to Hafnarfjörður to walk, it must be told of the news of the day. Now we've just got our scents at the top of our mission. Governments to the Fishing Room, which was carried out with great contrast to the very institution located in Hafnarfjörður, and men were at the end of the bar mitzvah with and by the highest. The prime minister gave up his plans. But there is a legal opinion from a highly respected and experienced Supreme Court attorney, Andri the son of Árnason, who shows at the height. A minister of education has undergone laws against the University of Hafnarfjörður, plagiarised him, and joined other schools. Of course, one would wonder if Hafnarfjörður has no lawsuits in the members of the government, but he must call back for the Supreme Court. The Minister of Education will be called here immediately and given the special discussion that he has been requested for the affairs of the Industrial School of Hafnarfjörður and how he has tried to go against the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u279	President. Just before that, two speakers, on the one hand, pointed out why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and the other. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, refers to what I would like to call the rudeness of the administrative sector during the discussion, which is, e.g. Since members of the Management Board are not too discouraged to be present when the members of my section hold talks, there will be no conversation and no reasoning except when a member of the administrative committee is in charge. And so is the fact that no minister is present at this discussion. We all know that it's the highest. Environment Minister is legally premeditated, but there must be someone who can replace her, just to show us the respect of listening to what people have to say. [[The president calls.]] They might also realize how urgent it is to cut the knot at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u280	V.E.G. President. I agree with other members of the council who have spoken of the absence of ministers during the discussion and specifically state that, of course, we all agree that next on the rosary is why. A senator and chairman of the United Nations, and it must be our requirement that the minister of the seminary, or the person acting in his presence, be present. I had a conversation with the Minister of Education today about his dark acts with a group of high school, and I was very good at it. The case has, of course, been replaced by another theme now because the town of Hafnar made Andri Árnason, the respected lawyer, go through the unity that the Minister is doing there. The results say, by permission of the president: Implementation data with law No. 92/2008, in high school, it is assumed that high school will be reduced only with the approval of the Generals. - Complaining ends because I don't have any more time. A respectable president. Do you need further witnesses? I'd like to ask the one sitting on the President's throne to state to the Senate's head that I demand the highest power. A special discussion with me and others about the dark things he's doing all over the country will be discussed tomorrow by the minister of Illugi Gunnarsson. [[Take it up in Dark Jobs...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u281	Mr. President. I'd like to remind you that there's a lot more to wish for being the highest. Prime Minister at this discussion. We are interested in talking to him, among other things, because he is involved in the dispute. I think there is also reason to talk only to a prime minister about the community situation, which is much heavier and much more important than it should be in Iceland during this time of year and, in view of the fact that there have been other activities that have been going on with us in the past few years. Nevertheless, it is not that anyone who goes to the public is hiding that the nation is heavy. As we add up reports of progress, we're going to the highest level. A minister of education and his unscrupulous private reforms with the high school of Hafnarfjörður and darkness, vandalism I would like to say regarding high school education in the country there is good reason to discuss other things than this, which is in absolute futility yet on schedule, and to be corrupted and foreordained all the activities of the council. It is becoming quite tragic that most parts are not to be reached and that they see their dignity in retreating with this matter, for it is long before it is clear that this war is not going to win the greater part. [[The president calls.]] He has no cause for that, and he does not hold a position, for we will use our right to make sure that these incompetent ones will not be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u282	A respectable president. In view of the reports coming here regarding the unity of the high school at Hafnarfjörður and Technical School and the assumed that there is an unsurpassed outcome at the highest level. I would like a minister of education to request that the length of a special discussion that I have requested with the Minister and will be held tomorrow on the centrally controlled reduction of high school, which is expected half an hour in that discussion, and that, under this discussion, in addition to the mid-term shortening of the high school, the school of Hafnarfjörður and Technologies, and the application to higher schools in the country. Well, that's so much. The Minister of Education and Culture has been little at the council and has been much abroad, despite the dark works that have been done. Therefore, in line with the discussion that has taken place, I very strongly request that the discussion be an hour, and all the wrongdoing will be under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u283	The president wants to announce that the invitation has been reached the highest level. Environment Minister and Supreme Minister. Prime Minister for their presence to be requested in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u284	A respectable president. I must first agree with the request. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir threw up here. It's getting very rough, so the stronger words aren't used, that we're stuck first of all to discuss the President's conference board, first or last, and second, last of course, this frame plan and the cursed adjustment form. Business committee. There's a community outside this material. We're supposed to be talking about something more urgent than this case right now, at least by this change. Then I find out again and again that the smaller part has not objected to the idea of whale activation, the suggestion to the highest degree. A minister offered, but these adjustments, because they are not in harmony with the understanding of how the frame should work and the frame should work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u285	A respectable president. I don't want to extend this discussion unduly, but I wanted to come up here for all the tips. Svavarsdóttir The discussion she has asked for at the highest point has become clear after the events of the day. Of course, a minister of education needs to be longer tomorrow, and we need to review that matter much better, I think we're talking about an hourly discussion. A discussion of academicism must take place at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. We have never received any material discussion at the highest. For example, a minister in some serious way about his decision from Christmas to close the high schools to people over 25 years of age. This is already a serious effect. That is why he now has the opportunity to drive his dagger to the small schools in the country because he has cut off their business grounds by refusing to pay for students over 25 years of age. No quarter of the students are paid. This prevents new opportunities in the country. [[The president calls.]] This has never been discussed here. I think this discussion needs to be much longer, and the President must immediately take steps to clear up the program tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u286	A respectable president. If there were always this riot, what would the council do? Senators would not accept any suggestions? We're arguing on legal interpretation, and I'd like to quote only the interpretation from the office of the Directorate of Professional Road and Development, by permission of the President: It must be noted that the law is not clear on this and possibly on the part of the law. This may be considered more clearly in the lyrics of the Law. Therefore, it should be observed that where a report is referred to as the year before the Council deals with the plan, a professional assessment of activations and land areas is conducted... In view of all the data available from the first, second and third stages of the frame plan, and on the basis of it, provide a logical change in the order of these activation options if the decision of the General Assembly is to be followed by a review of the statements. We argue here on blurred laws, we don't argue about it. [[The president calls.]] But should we not continue the discussion? And after this is done, should we not consider these laws and perhaps make them clearer so that these disputes will not be next?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u287	V.E.G. President. In case of a moment. Congress officials believe that there are some laws that are blurred must be bent on making a suggestion for a change in that law, starting at that end, not making a proposal into the council, where only one discussion is left. Well, it's just starting at the end of the world, so I want to direct it to what it's like. paritaprevir Páll, the Jóhann of Pálsson, I took my leave of silence to agree with what I heard. Svavarsdóttir I think it's absolutely necessary that we have an extended discussion tomorrow about the highest education policy. The Minister of Education seems to be presenting everywhere but here at the General Assembly where the discussion is to be conducted. That's why I agree that we need an extended discussion on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u288	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Pálsson's for confirming by quote that the Ministry considers this to be at least legal in a gray area, as well as what he read from the opinion of the Ministry of Employment. The question is, What is to be enjoyed by the doubt? It is not good for the General, the Lawgiver himself, to be working directly in a legal gray area, and should not the law enjoy the doubt when the Council itself is involved, that he is not going to violate his own laws? When we add that nature is behind us, is it not also meant to enjoy the doubt? There is a double precaution, a double precaution, which should ensure that such a procedure does not come into mind. Then I'd like to ask if it's the highest. The prime minister to whom the invitation has been made well, but it was done yesterday and last night, good if not by yesterday, but not by tomorrow, and then by the Generals must take action. If the Minister does not show up as a legitimate request, they are asked to come here for a discussion and perform their duties, then the General Assembly will take over, for example, the subject will not be moved by any political contributions until the government's point has so little to show up here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u289	That's what the President wants to get to. Councilmen say they try to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u290	Mr. President. I have serious doubts that getting the highest will improve any of this discussion. Prime Minister here to see her. I think we're in a much better place by finding a solution for this knot on our own than by getting it. V.E.G. Prime Minister has a custom that he will never be able to address the council without losing it to slap a man and someone else and never set aside for peace. I believe that much better is that we gradually try to persuade and help people to see that what is going on here is against the law, and that is why I completely disagree. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son, Pálsson, to continue the discussion. We should postpone it, try to resolve the situation, and then take up uncontaminated matters to discuss what needs to be discussed, which are the work struggles, the resolutions in society, and the strikes that lie ahead. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to be the role of the Generals at these critical times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u291	A respectable president. Of course, the conference board is saying that the results of keeping this matter on schedule day after day have not been for the community, but it has been quite good for the very issue itself, for the conference board has been very unveiled. I think it best to state that here the Ministers are here with me on both hands rich after a few days of discussions and the Board of Directors has fled, both the Assembly of the Agency and the Independence Party from the hall, and are visible here only to one person who is on the stand, because the management team has come to realize that the transition is not in accordance with the law and will rather destroy the interests rather than strengthen those who are trying to promote themselves, i.e. The interests of the continuum transfunctioner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u292	A respectable president. I agree that it is important to discuss school matters at the council and school policy, as presented here. I think there's a lot of work to be done for the council. I wondered if that time is right, but I hadn't thought about it yet. But if we want that discussion, how important it is that we make the needed time so that it can become a reality! We've talked about it here in this room that we'll try to make peace, and we'll finish this discussion as soon as possible. This happens by sitting at the table of agreement, not by choosing to do so. We need to do it with contracts that we can all get comfortable with, and I think that it's in the lake that we'll do it if we want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u293	Mr. President. I don't need what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson to tell me about my rights. As a senator, I have the right to demand a discussion about anything I want with a minister, if there's any special occasion. The right is given me in the Senate. I come up most of the time to settle for that, with the companions a bit. paritaprevir Of course, the incident that has been explained here should be discussed in the case of Svavarsdóttir and the aged Páll the son of Árnason. Illegal privatization at the highest. Education minister of the school system in a special way. It is impossible for the council to take more than half an hour to do so. Whether it takes two, three or four hours, I don't know, there must be more than usual discussion because there are many members of the council who are interested in discussing this because this is absolutely a prince's case. Now, according to the legal opinion that the Independence Party government has repeatedly used, there is nothing other than a law broken by the Supreme Court. Secretary of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u294	V.E.G. President. I'm going to say my last speaker. What I hadn't realized was that I was being privatized at Hafnarfjörður High School. The rest are examples I have taken from my districts and other terms, so I want to agree with them. Ásmundur Friðriksson, who will discuss the school affairs and who will not insist on this matter. I'd like to add, because I've talked most about the cohesion of education Ministers in my district and in my territory, and I've talked about one more example. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson how he feels about the plans and work plans of the Ministry of Education expected the Western High to be united with the school at Selephoss. It's just as stupid in my opinion as uniting high school at Isafjords and the High School of Sheep's Vell. The most talk is about what is being done in the Northeast now. This is Phase 2 or 3. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? Senator on plan. Minister of education, who we desperately need to get here for a long time to discuss the dark things he's doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u295	The president wants to announce that the invitation has been reached the highest level. Environment Minister, expecting him in the next hour or so. An invitation has also been made. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, president of the professional trade committee, is also soon to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u296	A respectable president. For example, I had not really pondered these school issues, and I have actually received only a brief presentation yesterday. I have not wondered if the Western High School was part of the school at Selephoss, and of course I had not imagined it. On the other hand, I had imagined that the Western Islands, including the school system, health care, could be a very powerful place for many South Englands who want to go to the island, such as Hellu, Hvolsfield, and Vicodad, who want to attend various services there. With improved transportation, of course, it would be possible. I had not imagined that this school would be united with some other school. I have to go over before I... [[Up front.]] I'm not going to make a statement in this chair, the question comes unexpectedly, but I had not imagined it that way. Although I'm generally in favor of various combinations, I think we all need to be very careful about them. I wondered, " Why are the schools in the capital city, each on either side of the street, not united? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u297	A respectable president. I'd like to take a few words on the important matter that is to be treated here at the Council. This is my first discussion of the matter, so I want to try to review it as a whole. First of all, it is important to stress that the administrative part had the advantage of ensuring the progress of a Framework Compatibility and a new activation option, Impulse activation, which included the original proposal. Environment Minister. It's interesting to hear the highest language. the secretary of the environment, the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's son, to the proposal in the fall, reasoned why there was only a suggestion for Hahm reactivation, and when he suggested to the early ideas of a greater part of the employment committee to heal further initiatives into the matter. Then the existing environmental minister explained how much it was important to handle matters properly and to be careful not to interrupt the project. During the discussion, we have been led to the fact that the decision does not match the basis for a framework. When we have noted this, we have often heard, from a greater part of the employment committee and government directors, references to the way things were going on during the last term. There's a difference between equations. On the one hand, it was to hold on to a waiting class for several activations but not to move them to a novelty party. This is a reference to moving the activation of a waiting class from a research-based project management to a novelty class. This means that they will not be investigated by the task management. This means irreversible action. On the one hand, I'd like to review that in a panel of more part of the employment committees, there is an extremely good defense for the last government and the procedure it performed in this regard. On page 18. 2 In the opinion, a greater proportion of the committee - I reiterate that they are good associates, members of the Management Board on the case. It says: ▪ In accordance with provisional regulations in the law, a valid proposal for action was made for the review of the summer 2011 on the part of the then industrial minister. In other words, there was a special provision in the Law on a framework program that assumed that the first session of the synopsis would be submitted to counsel and that they would be taken into account. Then I keep on quoting. Jón Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson and Páll Jóhann Pálsson: ▪ In view of the comments received during the reporting process, some changes were made in the schedule before proposaling for Congress to be submitted to the council. This process cannot really be described better than they were. Guys do. There was a special law code, a provisional principle, about this first frame plan. It was decided to eliminate activation options because they fell outside the force range of protection and energy efficiency laws and those that were exported from a waiting party class were completely fixed to the frame as it was. In the case under discussion, the task management is taking place. The majority of the employment committees are not patient. She is not ready to go as high as possible. Environment Minister, both the first and the person present, have the market to give the task management the opportunity to do their job. There are ways to pay the price. For example, if the release of this case had been rapid and reliable, it would have been a message for the project administration as well as if adequate financial resources had been investigated. That would have been good for things too. I have here a print of the project management web, which is to see the schedule of the second part 3rd. The project management board, however, leaves no room for providing 27 options, intelligence, to minister on September 1, 2016, after a year from now on. That's all there is to it. After an incident, it could be accelerated by adding funds to a project management if this is not considered sufficient, but it is now only a year from now on, and this can be the first issue of government in a new fall. In the current legislation, the task management is expected to complete its implementation and the result of the conduct of the Parliamentary decree during the last term was to put a certain benefit into a waiting party, assigning further coverage to the project management, as well as to other optional options. There they are now. It is made clear in the review of the Agency that there are no material grounds for taking the case, in the way expected here by the majority of the employment authorities, from the hands of the project management. The Icelandic community makes serious comments about this. It is very important that the project management is given the opportunity to complete its work. So does the National Association of Iceland, although at the highest level. Prime Ministers and other members of the board try to lie some other position on Iceland's Common Association. On the contrary, the Common Union makes it very clear that the task management is protected from accomplishing this work and producing it. However, the evidence shows that the case is not properly handled in the case in a review of the Environment and Resource Ministry's memorandum to the Employment Committee since November 27, 2014. In particular, it says by permission of the president: Since a project management was not in effect dealing with five specific activation options, - and now I insert the Scorpio century - the law of No. 48/2011, if the proposed activations are still in the management of project management by the Ministry of Environment and Resources. The task force has not provided a suggestion for the classification of these costs to the minister and for the synoptic proposal now available for the Council. Therefore, the Environment and Resource Department's assessment of law no. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. It can hardly be said of the Ministry that more than a part of the employment committee is not in accordance with the law. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said this morning that so - called experts wanted to determine a unique activation option. This is the exact phrase and approach we are trying to get out of here with a frame plan. Without a doubt, if we have doubts about the experts assigned to evaluate activation options, we are even more likely to question the expertise of the members of Congress to classify activation options. And what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his other colleagues in the greater part of the employment committee are certainly so - called experts. We cannot allow members of Congress, in the treatment of the synonym, to place themselves as a law-enforcement projector in accordance with local law. It has to be so that the project management is allowed to perform its legal functions, and so - called experts from members of the Parliament cannot take the place there. He also calls attention to the ignorantness that more than a part of the employment committee shows to the minister on the case. The discussion was now under way in the fall of this issue when there were ideas on the increase in activation options in eight. We had had this argument in the conference hall and the highest. the secretary of the environment, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, had taken decisive action that there was only one advantage of material reasoning to resolve. It is very special that when new environmental ministers arrive, they decide to place their chair in front of the door and humiliate it in the way that most of the employment committees have done. You must ask yourself, " What kind of message is this to the highest level? ' The Environment Minister and what respect are shown by the fact that more parts of the employment committee oppose the proposal for which she is directly responsible, and which she has absolutely described how she would like to see fulfilled through the council? To tell you the truth, in the history of Congress it is a search that another as humiliating march towards a minister as much as the majority of the section has found to be struggling to show the highest order. Environment minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. To say the truth, it's embarrassing. I must ask the senators of the House of forwarders how they can allow themselves to be tolerated by a senator and a minister of theirs in this way, especially by name of the female council members of the parish. Is it normal for a woman to be treated in this way by a member of the minister's group, to be put up with a wall of some paramours, and to accept just what is right and to walk directly against the lines that she puts on the payment of this matter, which is her administrative responsibility here at the General Assembly? I've been a minister. I know the council has custody of matters after the Minister has submitted it. But it is also when the majority government is in power that if the council overthrows the minister's promises, then there's a clear message to the Minister and I think it's the highest. The environmental minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir did not work to get these tractors from his companions, so that is put out here. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson earlier said that the law had to be made clearer, that is why. Nowhere in the law are the laws that they stand for to conclude that a panel could replace a project management. If a person is really interested in doing good, then the first thing the lawgiver should do is make sure that he does not take the matter into a gray area of law. I've read here the opinions of the Environment and Resource Ministry, particularly one of the advantages that still exist in this proposal, Tanko, where the Ministry specifically says it's not up to the law. Why, then, must the law be changed so as not to be violated when it is possible to break it? Why is it that the members of the head of the executive board not merely back up the proposal and protect the original proposal? She would receive an increased proportion at the Assembly Hall, and members of the administrative body might then feel sorry for having ensured the progress of a proposal for reconciliation with the council and the nation. If there isn't any work to do that, I'll ask. It is extremely important to have a legal process in this case, a legal process. It is not only important to ensure the social pressure that I have discussed so many times, end disputes, find a good way to resolve these differences because we both want good nature, enjoy it, and have electricity. In the foundation, this disagreement is about where we're gonna put the line lines between here and here. I don't think anybody wants to activate everything, and I don't think anybody wants to activate it. And no one wants to peace everything, and no one wants anything to be appeased. We must, if we wish to protect this process, be able to find this cut in peace and harmony. That is why the system was created, so it is important to settle disputes in the community. But it is also important to ensure that our energy efficiency is maintained. Now I'm going to come to the biggest misunderstanding... and the largest chicken race in the filing process... Snooping down and breaking the law as much as the major part is a danger that not only take up here years of conflict and lawsuits and judicial cases about the rightness of these activation options but also the fact that even if these fortresses were to be built, we would not be able to get a good price for their energy. A foreign company that wants to buy this energy, see, wants to ensure that it has been earned correctly and that nature is not gone. Just as we have experienced, when men planned to get baptized with the fishy resources, they went straight through the fishing business - what happened then? Figuratively, no one wanted to buy it because it was not guaranteed to have been made according to the correct rules. The same will happen with the energy from these activations. It becomes a discount because the buyers will not be able to guarantee it, will not be assured that it will be classed as green energy because it was in the power of brief baptism, and a failure to compromise with the right rules allowed by the building. This will mean that the buyers will not be able to sell their products, so they have been submerged with pure green energy. This is the big case we face. The employment committee's proposal is to slaughter the golden goose, to perform in such a way that it is not compatible with the operating laws, and thus jeopardize that we can sell these energy as green and sustainable energy. I ask more of the Generals, I ask members of the board to think, " Is this a chicken race worth looking at when we watch that schedule? ' On September 1, 2016, the project management will provide the minister with a proposal for 27 benefits, and there is no shortage of energy in the country. There is not one project that cannot be signed because energy is lacking. If Impulsion were to cross here, with the votes of a rift part tomorrow, it would be to send a clear signal if it followed, for example, an extra budget for project management to ensure that things could be taken care of at the right time, and would be even clearer to the message that men had decided to continue to produce green energy on sustainable grounds. Isn't that a better way than that big one? How can humans justify going back decades in time in some ridiculous bulldozer and tomb? Rota and shovels with no thought at all when it comes to playing the right game and ensuring the maximum price for energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u298	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. He came into a number of things, including the fact that we weren't completely energyless in this country, and we had a variety of things to play already. It has been shown during the discussion that we have a total pipeline with the expected activations of about 535 megawatts. But I'd like to ask why. A senator in peace descriptions of the territory. He said that there was a need for more money in a project management program so that it could deliver the results of September 1, 2016, but it has been shown that there has been no contribution in a period of peace since 2013 to the last budget of the former government. At that time 28 million were placed in peace descriptions. Now, no funding has been placed in peace description. [[The president calls.]] It's gotta be balanced, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u299	A respectable president. Yes, it is very important. And there is another concern that by starving financiers for peace, the government has managed to maintain an advantage in ways that the energy companies and the Power Institute feel that it is right to ask constantly to reevaluate them because they have not been emancipated. Since funding has not been put in terms of peace, then a frame plan does not fully reach its goals. Of course, it's so one side of the other side. Therefore, it is very important to put funds in all this process, to the projection to investigate and in terms of peace, so that benefits that really will be placed in a protection party will be placed in a peaceful light.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u300	Mr. President. Exactly. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator with regard to the lower part of Athwarm, who has been very active in the discussion. Some have been observed that everything has been investigated and can be quickly activated there, i.e. Hola and Uryr deduction. But they do not agree on this. That is why they were placed in the lower part of Dura. It has also been observed that all of this is not fully studied, therefore, the Executive Director did not rely on the development of the three - part initiatives when a minister received the suggestion for H baddm activation. A hunting director has said that if so-called aquaculture does not work, about 88% of the salmon strain in Holta activation and about 52% of the salmon population in Uric acid activation might be at risk. [[The president calls.]] Should we take this risk aside?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u301	A respectable president. No, we're not supposed to take this risk for an unconcerned matter. Now I'm both nature protection and energy efficiency, and I want us to use energy, but I'm happy with our country. I'm going to tell you that I've rarely felt and never felt as comfortable in getting information about some activation as well as about how I'm working after being decommissioned from mission management. You know that the project manager has been asked to review the matter again, and it concludes with a detailed reason for the benefits. That's why we and we in the United States are confident that we will support that opportunity for a novelty party. But this is exactly the same reason that we are not ready at this time to say the same thing about Holta activation, let alone Uryrs, where there are still some major doubts, as well as the natural protection of the falls as the salmon population. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u302	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk and is delighted to be here on a more objective discussion. That's a lot of reference from the Environment Ministry. I'd like to refer to it too, but it says, In view of the Ministry's opinion, the Council, taking into account the law of No. 48/2011, a adjustment in the classification of the activation initiatives proposed, as the benefits have been obtained by project management in accordance with the laws of the law. Here's a review from Power Institute: The proposal is in line with the professional results of the project administration and the original Parliamentary proposal. There was three activation initiatives in the southern part of the water, i.e. Substitution, Impulse activation and Holtization, all in the Þjótur, organized into the energy generation, were some of the activation factors that were among the most practical and the best studied. These benefits, however, were transferred from a panoramic energy group to a group of hallmarks for the General Assembly, in 2013, without any professional grounds allowing the basis for professional judgment. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator for this operation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u303	A respectable president. I'm telling you about these reviews, they're not in harmony with description. During the last term, the head of Congress and his partner in the greater part of payment, the members of the Committee on Work, much less. A senator stated that this payment was in full harmony with existing laws, based on temporary laws of the law, and based on physical evidence. The other thing I'm going to say about this is, "What?" A senator was careful not to mention the fact that the Environment Ministry clearly states, the Environment Ministry, that it is not a law to make a suggestion for the Tank. I want to ask you why. In contrast, there is a senator: Why did he choose to do so? Minister of the environment after much effort to make a suggestion of anything other than whale activation? [[The president calls.]] Why did it come to the top? But there's no other way for the Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u304	I don't know why he didn't suggest more than he had a minor opinion that he could have used. However, this activation option, Skorunda, has been received and fully discussed by Project Control 2, so it has been fully discussed. I'd like to point my tail. A senator's focus is only on the matter. " By permission of the President, " says the authority of the Power Agency: By moving the proposed activation of the river from a waiting category, the aims of the sustainable development of electricity production were put at risk, at the discretion of the Power Institute. The rate of accelerated biohazardisation would be increased without these hydrodynamic activation measures. Thus, there would be technical and economic security and economic efficiency, obtained through the use of coexisting geothermal and hydropowers. Energy in an ongoing renewal not harnessed in water tides is lost while energy in aquifers can be regarded to some extent as a source of escape. [[The president calls.]] I say, "Who is slaughtering the golden goose?" There, professionals and professional groups provide a complete solution, to activate along the line of water as well as the aquifers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why ignore it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u305	The President begs members of the council to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u306	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has to recognize that in the diary since November 27, the Environment Ministry says that Stockholm was not treated by the project. It says that a mission government was not dealing materially with the Devil's century. Therefore, the Ministry's evaluation is that the law does not expect the General to change the category of these costs. It won't be clearer. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Hv. The senator and the majority of the Committee cannot settle in some court position over the Ministry and the Office's interpretation of current laws. It's not like that. That's when it's gonna be. A senator proposes a legal adjustment and changes the law. The golden goose is being slaughtered by gambling in a critical legal process that ensures maximum price for energy, making sure we can sell it as green energy. The threat is being offered by performing spectacular projects without any physical analysis. [[The president calls.]] It is the great conflict of economic independence of the nation as a matter of course. A senator and his colleagues in the greater part are at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u307	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for the talk, and we feel the same way about it. What we are, of course, criticizing is that a larger proportion of committees should appear before the project management board and decide to put the activation option into a category where a project management has not yet been discussed, i.e. She hasn't finished her job yet. The majority rightly say that some of these activation options have been covered, that data is available on them, but you wonder: Is it enough that the project management had some consideration of the activation initiatives, and then, somehow, the General Assembly can intervene, much of the Committee? Is it enough, then, that the process has been going on for two months, eight months, or who should decide? Don't you think it's the most natural thing for the project management to do? You don't quite understand what's going on right now. [[The president calls.]] I know why. A senator whether there's a lack of funding, or what intolerance is this? [[The president calls.]] Why can't a project management get out of work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u308	A respectable president. In itself, I have no answers to that. I showed these slides below showing how close it is to the task management to reach a conclusion. I also find that odd in view of the conversation we had before the year when eight activations were first discussed. I have to say exactly as it is, as I traced before, a man must ask himself, " Is this a spaming towards a new environmental minister and whether this reflects any sort of divisions in the management team? There is no material evidence in the case where the project management will unchanged the result of 27 benefits in a year, then we have full guarantee that all the right rules have been done, the level is calmed at every turn, and we can be absolutely sure that we can sell these energy as green energy at maximum prices. I don't know why people want to risk it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u309	A respectable president. Those who are critical of a frame plan feel too far and that more research is being called indefinitely. On the contrary, we want to go to the ground with caution and perhaps with extra research. Then you wonder, " If people don't like it, why not change the law? ' It will pass its traditional way through the council, through the reviews, and three discussions, and all that, instead of having a problem with the process and then just spoil it. Now, in effect, we're saying that we can at any point take some priming option somewhere in the process and do something about it, if this works out. Takes it. A senator who prepares the process to be difficult and perhaps too complicated?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u310	A respectable president. I don't find it particularly difficult to reach a material conclusion about the 27 benefits of September 1 next year. I just have to say, how much can men live in the present? We're about to build the fortresses that will last for decades, and we're going to purr us in gold, hopefully for 100 years. We're still being beat in gold by the Bountiies and will be doing so for years to come, and surely for hundreds of years, if the turbins are reinvented with a cypress. So I don't have a problem with it. On the other hand, I think it's perfectly right. A senator brings up the matter that with this example it is possible in itself to reflect on any priming in any case at any time. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson made it clear earlier that he felt that although there is a state ministry issue that it is impossible to add after the reference to the Tank, there was no problem in adding it. [[The president calls.]] That is the interpretation of the Ministry, which has the jurisdiction of the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Well, the example has already been set that Gold Falls can be pushed in next, as I have repeatedly warned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u311	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. paritaprevir Páll the son of Árnason for an excellent speech I'm glad we're in the same place in these matters, we're both natureists, and maybe we're primaries, even though you don't want to call yourself that. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament on the comments or reservations of Elín Líndal, a member of the committee. She put it this way: The Committee on Three Benefits at Þjórðar said that they went to a novelty party, and counterrequisite action of land activation was credible and good. Plan 2 was arranged, so the work of frame 3 was just to add information that benefited and makes decisions easier. She later relates: At the council, a political change was made. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of her comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u312	A respectable president. In the discussions and votes on the 2nd chapter of a frame plan, I attributed the very fact that I felt that the lower part of Durjaring was the most doubts and that I wanted clear material reasons why it would be justified to bring them down to a waiting party. My conclusion was that there was sufficient evidence for Uryrofosor activation there and for salmon strains, it would be reasonable to investigate it further. I also felt that it was important to make peace with the subject and meet the comments made in the comment process that was legally legal to settle that there would be an additional reversal and calm for each consideration in this case. The result is positive. Impulse reactivation is in here. It is a widespread social reconciliation. This is how men work to achieve success; they listen to worries; they calm down at every turn; they get results. [[The president calls.]] That is the wise and logical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u313	A respectable president. I'm glad we're still on the same page, me and him. Senator, it's about to be done. We agree that the research is important and beneficial. That is why I was a little surprised when the Hunting Office came to us on the committee and told us that straddle 3 had not been invited to a meeting, thought that there was enough data, and based on the data that had been prepared for frame two. According to their records, employees of the Food Agency and the experts there say it could be investigated for another 100 years, made 100 reports, and the result would always be critical. They feel that there will be no further investigation. Fortunately, we agree that the salmon population is important, and we have to be careful about this. But what do you think? A senator of the opinion of the Agency that this is fully under investigation, and of course it has been identified in frame 3 where the Agency was not consulted on the subject? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u314	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator says that all things can be examined forever. There is no doubt about it. So I would have been very worried if the project management did not generally accomplish its advantages, but it does. She is now giving good reasoning and excellent support to Hahmming. I have no doubt that she will return 27 of the benefits of September 1 next year. I have no doubt that if it occurs earlier than September 1, it will be as soon as possible to produce Holtian activation and reactivation, if it will be before September 1 next year. It is her simply to evaluate the date of her full research, but she has demonstrated by her actions that she does not engage in 100 - year research without reason. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u315	A respectable president. I've asked the president several times to report a meeting to the council members in order to evaluate the situation. I wondered, " Is it not too far off somewhere that a respectable president intends to respond to that request? ' It is now unusual to say that it is happening that for a very long time, the chairman of Congress wishes to repeat it without at least a respected answer. So I would like to ask a respected president what is available in that regard? And I'd also like to ask a president in view that the Environment Minister is far away. What is the relevant object of this proposal? Is that why? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who is the party, since it's not the minister of the seminary or it doesn't seem to be, who will present a frame plan to the greater part of the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u316	A respectable president. There's not much about the man in this discussion, as we've always been here for the suggestion. What I'm thinking about is that it seems to me that the advance party has been led into this case by a total fuaz. The minister of the Mission is offering a suggestion here with a single activation, and now he's living up to his full revolution, in effect, a decoupling of the proposal. A new environmental minister is accepted, which unfortunately has not been able to be with us in this discussion today, and has described opposition to the change, but it remains, as in the highest opinion. A minister didn't matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u317	A respectable president. What is the issue? Everyone agrees that great and professional jobs have gone past project management 2 of the framework stages. The task management is being carried out for the 3rd part of the Framework Programme and will submit the complete report. She was asked for prompt treatment of eight activation options that she felt could do in no good way except for one priming option. The majority of the employment committees have a change in proposals, and they rely on a professional report prepared by four professional groups in Project 2 programme, which produced a very serious and massive report. More than a part of the employment board supports this much work, and the important data, and brings up this change, adds to the activation options mentioned in these Conventional Residence Directives in the accompanying documents. [[The president calls.]] It is not as if some other option is being taken. [[The president calls.]] All these advantages are mentioned in this suggestion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u318	Mr. President. Once again, I keep silent about the President's conference board to contradict the tactics that have been employed in this case and what to do. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson went over earlier. Phase 3 task management is active. I think it's a bit true to say, as if a minister or more part of the council decides to change the law or make some interpretation, accept a few years of work to support itself, but overlook what has happened since then. Of course, that's not professional enough work, Mr. President. I must once again object that we have this matter on the agenda, based on this weak professional foundation. It doesn't mean to quote from old reports, old reviews, old conclusions. It is so obvious, Mr. President, what is the wisest thing to do in this situation. This is taken away from the program and that we decide here to wait for Project 3 to complete our work as high as possible. The minister of the environment suggested. [[The president calls.]] It's the wise thing to do in this matter, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u319	V.E.G. President. Hv. The members of the administrative body have repeatedly called for material discussions on the subject under consideration. It is true that as the discussion continues and the material discussion takes place, very few of these members are present for the discussion to take part in and no one to the highest level. Ministers, and indeed not so much. Chairman of the pro board. I still think this is one of the reasons why this matter should not be on the program but, rather, that it should be taken over and discussed at the highest level. It's more appropriate for a president than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u320	A respectable president. The lack of experience by the senators of the Organization is now becoming rather a subject for the meeting and the progress of the council. The situation in which we are in is unusual, as it were. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall drew attention, as the senators generally endeavor to do on professional committees and to take care of her through the council as usual, the senators of the Office of Professional Affairs allow themselves to be led into the proceedings in such a way that there is no way of agreeing to the proposal that came from the Minister. I think, a respectable president, that it must be held accountable that it will not be any different than the Committee itself. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the discussion is to be postponed and the committee assembled and reviewed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u321	A respectable president. I'm thinking about the state of nature protection at the council. I sense that many people are very thoughtful about this arrangement. The minister of the Environment is in position that her own party does not even back it up, but her viewpoint is set aside and demeaning them very little. There's a man hiding behind a what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who is well - known for his inconspicuous effort in everything he makes in regard to employment and opposition to nature's protection. I would be very thoughtful if the members of the greater body of Congress, especially those of the Congress of the Future Party, and I have conducted a group of environmental issues that have sometimes been stored well in the hands of the Agency, but certainly not now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u322	A respectable president. I wonder why we're here. I guess now we're discussing this, we're going way back to the second week because it's such a terrible case in the majority of it, I guess. In this room are two independents and one candidate. Why are we here? Can a dignified president explain to us why we should meet here late into the night to discuss this matter? Of course, it is in order to tire out the smaller parts. We know exactly what this game is. It makes me feel kind of polite. The members of the greater part show a little more color in this discussion. It's not like it's a long time tonight, Mr. Honorable President, it's about six o'clock, there's not much in town. I like it. The members of the greater part can be more involved. [[The president calls.]] They have always had the opportunity to get to a rosary immediately when asked to do so, and this has always been the most productive discussion when they participate. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's an unacceptable, respectable president that they won't be involved until sometime after midnight when no one's watching, whether on TV or in here at the high Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u323	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to discuss a lot of framework, I'm going to have a chance to be next in a talker in this regard. However, I would like to get involved in the discussion that has been on what is on the program for the council. It has been observed that this is a special debate tomorrow regarding the education that I am celebrating, only from the flexibility and how men have been shortening the final exam in high school. I personally have a request for a special discussion on the subject that has been most discussed here, which is when people decided to put down the high school in Hafnarfjörður and transfer it to the private school of Technologies. I think it's important that this discussion be held, if the two are not together, but there are, of course, other things to discuss. We might have to take half a day next week to discuss academic matters, because the loan fund of Icelandic students would have to be discussed here on account of the responsible system and the occupied collections, as well as on loans to students abroad. We're not just talking about the northeast corner of high school, we're talking about Westland, school conferences, and other things. [[The president calls.]] It is vital that we have an opportunity to discuss this matter. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not going to fail to take my talk on a frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u324	Mr. President. In our democratic system, the facility is made such that the greater part of the council has 100% of the program. The only thing that the memory part can really do is talk for a long time, using a certain court of speech, that's the only thing the lesser part can do to try to influence the program when the greater part uses its majority power, which may be 60% or so today, in order to have 100% of its main authority. It is of particular importance that the smaller part of the program is thus made up of when the greater part of a council of 63 members of the United States is going to go against a greater portion of the country, which is if we take the voters over 110 you. People, it is important that the smaller part delay. [[The president calls.]] After all, it is the larger part of the program program, can take the matter off, put it on a committee, and then we try to find a solution and continue with another program at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u325	I thank a respectable president for giving me the word. I've asked them two respectable presidents who have sat on the President's chair before him, why. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér and what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice, if they could tell me if anything was going on, as the kids say. Are you trying to negotiate, or are you trying to solve the chain of Congress? Although I'm afraid I'm going to continue this because we have to, I'd rather have the council function in a natural way. This would happen in half an hour if a large part of the employment committee was withdrawn and we could discuss a proposal at the highest level. Environment Minister, served here this fall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u326	Mr. President. It is very important that the government in this world exercise its authority well. Her vote at a council doesn't reflect a vote. The vote is much more than it should be in my opinion and in the outcome of the election. That is why they should handle it well, and I believe that in this case, when the program is being scheduled, the highest will be used. The president's power is not well. I've asked twice if any Minister will follow through. I find it very unusual that the discussion will continue to be offered in a large part of the council without a secretary being present to follow it through or to have material discussions with us. So I ask a most kindly president if there is a possibility that any secretary of the environment at this council would do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u327	A respectable president. Perhaps it is right to think that one of the reasons why there is so much disagreement about the President's conference board and this procedure of the rest of the section is that what is being discussed here is a resolution to the Senate, i.e. to second discussion. The proposal may not be in accordance with the law, but if it were, then the success rate is that, unlike what has often been done in the council, the case will not go to the President of the Republic, where people can then challenge the president and get him to bring the case into the court. Consolation will not be launched to Mr. Ólafur Ragnar's son, Grímsson. Consolation is a final decision, and it will not be appealed to the President or placed in a national law. [[The president calls.]] That's why the method here is so trivial.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u328	Mr. President. There is something else that could be done to pay for the Senate work, i.e. In the long - term context, and it's that the people get the lawsuit to themselves. If the nation could bring up a case, such as this question of how to use the energy resources, because everyone could not agree on a work ethic for a long-term policy model for such as 15 years they've been trying, they could, of course, agree on it during the last term, but so everyone would be able to betray each other - so that if the nation themselves could call a big deal to themselves and therefore stop more part of the council, the nation is the greater part, the more part of the nation is the more real thing, and if the more part could stop the matter that at the council is trying to destroy them, the more part would be needed to fit and would not be the less necessary to stop them. It's a procedure I hear that more and more members of Congress are calling for this to be tied to a constitution. [[The president calls.]] I'm all for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u329	A respectable president. I must admit that I always find a little humorous when people are sitting here in a speaker's room and talking to those who are watching a live broadcast from the World Hall, but I'm going to do it right now. Hv. paritaprevir Mr. Hjörvar was well explained earlier that we are in a later discussion on the council arrangement, and that is why it will be completed when she goes out here. But what are we talking about, a respectable president? We're talking about, as I think it seems, four initiatives to enter a colony that allows irreversible implementation at four locations, perhaps three, in the country, valuable places that professional groups have failed to pay their respects. The regions have not been fully investigated. There are five members of Congress, or perhaps, "We know more about this than the rest of us do. " [[The president calls.]] The members of the United States do not trust themselves to put this into a novelty party, but members of the Parliament are confident that this will happen. [[The president calls.]] They're so good all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u330	Mr. President. I wondered if no one in the management team has begun to predict the cost it will bring to the government and the greater part of maintaining this obsession with purpose to continue making changes to a greater part of the employment committee. Especially in my social situation, I refer to it. You would now have thought that the government and the greater part would in this situation rather try to put in order to have good weather at the council regarding the measures and measures here may have to be taken, and hopefully if at some point the results of the debates about the big and important bills that the government itself claims she will lay before the council and ask them for a good weather for them to be paid off, such as the remuneration of the currency department. No, what does the other thing do? He is now stressing the greatest issue of the winter, which has been since the first hour, from the committee's reference to the issue of conflict, and from the bomb that has already been heard of the management committee's plans for the insane changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The situation here should not have surprised anyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u331	A respectable president. You've been here all the time to discuss simply the few, in my opinion, that these adjustments are on the agenda. At the beginning, when you realized that it would be here on the program, I asked and more questions that, of course, have not been answered, as if it were really okay to discuss such an extensive case, such as four new activations, or three, now under the pretext of a change proposal. Once there was no frame plan. Clerical activation was determined by a special law called the activation of Jack's Year on Bridge and Jack's Year in the Valley of the River and the enlargement of the Calculus activation. Would have been okay in handling the bill throwing in like four other activation options between 2 and 3. ... awrong.? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Would that have been okay? Is that a question of the highest degree? A president could answer and others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u332	Mr. President. This is thought - provoking and precisely what we have discussed before, and it was discussed earlier with them regarding the continuation of the council. That day is in the evening. It's Friday afternoon at council, Tuesday and Thursday, Wednesday is kitchen Day, and Friday is called the Day of Congress. There aren't many days left. It has often been so that every time the government has searched for the media, when it comes to various matters, it is the best thing to do and to seek out good weather, as mentioned earlier. But I can't imagine how much we at the government stand in our hearts to do something about the government in the way that it treats us. The president of the council, Einar K.. TheGuðfinnsson, with the program in his hand, decides to have it this way. [[The president calls.]] I believe that, most dignified president, the last days of the council will be very difficult if something doesn't happen here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u333	A respectable president. There's a story at a mlblís made from unsupervised queries earlier today. It states that the ultimate. The minister of finance would like to deny what is probably right, that there was never more money in the fishing industry and the electricity industry. I wondered, in the light of what is on this matter, why we have to deal with it now. Now, it has been associated with a gibberish argument, even if you only remembered the timing. There is nothing to make the matter settled. There are, however, plenty of other matters in the community that we now face. You don't have time in a one-minute meeting board to go into the ideas that can work to fix the situation at the General Assembly, now as often as before, but I will use the afternoon talk time to do so again and again in order that we take the President's board as a special case with full speech hours, answers, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u334	V.E.G. President. This morning a resolution was made on whether a evening meeting should be held. That's what we agreed on. Now that it's 17 minutes past six, three are out. Councilmen of the EEA and the Supreme Court. President here in the discussion. If that alone should not be a reason for postponing the schedule until the evening, I don't really know what. This has been the case many times today, asking whether the highest. In an effort to communicate, the president of the United States has made no reply all day. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to reiterate that question to the highest level. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u335	Mr. President. It is clear, then, that the whole treatment at the council this winter, and now this discussion, it is not enough to meet the standards for proper treatment at the General Assembly. No matter what anyone says, at best, there is a great legal question that the adjustment of the proposal is a contingency. It conflicts with our judgment of very many directly with the laws on a frame plan; of course, it clearly breaks down the spirit of the laws of professional and careful work to reach the conclusion of the order of activation options. It is also defective from a judicial point of view that when a discussion remains, the nature and size of a subject is discussed. Everyone who has some political experience, has never felt good Latin when it comes to bills, and now I'm not talking about Congress laws, is it? Then there are the fires of war that are set on fire in the council, among all environmentalists and environmental organizations in the country and in the community. People are shocked. I've only been able to get into the community to Akureyri and out of town here, and everybody starts asking, Is the situation at the General Assembly this way, in the balance of the labour market? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is not comforting for people to see it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u336	Mr. President. What nation is it offered that, day after day, at the General Assembly will offer some suggestions from the government stand to discuss the most important issues? We look ahead to a special position in the community. The society is getting a little more confused. It is obvious that tens of thousands of Icelanders will be on strike in the following days. They're waiting for the highest. The government's gonna give it up. We know that history shows that this magnitude of conflict cannot be solved without a government passing through it. But the highest. Ministers are afraid to come to the council to discuss the situation with members of Congress, they do not allow the media to be reached by the workforce, nor do they have any reason to be prepared to contribute on the scales of reconciliation. That is why, Mr. President, I challenge the Presidentship to take it seriously to take this matter off the agenda, go to the council and the people, and set up a program for the warmest cases, and that is the struggles. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u337	A respectable president. I'll agree with that. Of course, we should be discussing everything else. Of course, we should be discussing matters that prevent and solve them. I have held it, along with many other members of the council, that changing the more part of the employment committee is illegal; it is not in accordance with the framework and legal process of sorting activation options. But, hey. The head of the pro - trade committee requested that I be given the opportunity to do so at a meeting at the highest level. The president and even the Presidency Committee to back up my claim that here is lawlessness, and it was stated that more members of the council would like to participate in that meeting. I just want to ask the highest. Whether or not to grant the request of the head of the pro board for such a meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u338	A respectable president. Once again, I rejoice that members of Congress want to discuss other matters, and I've previously said that we just need to finish this discussion as soon as possible so we can deal with other important issues that are discussed at the council. I totally agree with that. It is natural to extend an act of reconciliation and see if one can't get along. Is that not what we need to do? At least that's the way to finish it, that's perfectly clear. I was working on it because I was putting myself back on the rosary that I'm 17 on the roster now and based on what he's been doing at the council for the last week, I could believe that I'm gonna find out this second week from now on, yeah, third week from now on. [[Upwards: 3rd]] But that is not a great deal of effort to get into matters that are so important during the council. [[Foreground on, everybody has...]] I'm just gonna be in this order. I'm gonna see how long it's gonna take. But work on the reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u339	A respectable president. I like it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson does not have much faith in the conversation and reconciliation, considering that he intends to spend most of his time wondering how far he will be going to get to the rosary. I want to agree with what's been said here, don't you think they're starting to see the light that we're going to have to start talking about serious stuff? We have to be able to discuss the situation at work. Are we in the government position alone, concerned that by the end of the next week we will be stopping here and out of the country? Are we alone concerned that for 45 days hospital strikes have significantly affected our health care? How does our proposal to discuss these matters go down day after day? [[Up front.]] There's no evil going on. You guys aren't trying to fuck with you. It's just asking that the council talk here about things that matter, a matter where we can do real good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u340	Mr. President. I'm gonna know if talking to the highest will affect you. President for calling for environmental minister here or former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. I've been asking for it many times, and I just think that's why the Ministers are in session. Sometimes you feel like you're sitting outside the council because there's nothing you can see of these ministers here but from time to time when they're forced to make some votes. Is normal to the highest. Ministers are out of the city, and they have some dark work to do, like the Supreme Court. Secretary of education? I hear many executives are shocked to hear what's in their pipes about the uniting schools and the changes in education system, so they should support us in calling to the highest level. Secretary of education here to answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u341	A respectable president. I reiterate our request that this meeting be interrupted, and men go and gather members of the council, looking for solutions in what ways we can begin to set up here very important matters. After about ten days, we are heading for the largest strike in the history of Iceland. I've never experienced such a thing in my life, not one man has. Does it not, in fact, be our task to try to find ways to respond to the call of those who will strike? There is no one who makes a quick decision to strike. Could it be, a respectable president, that men have nothing to offer, or that they feel they have nothing to offer, and therefore they are not ready for the conversation, so they agree here every morning to discuss it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u342	Mr. President. The concern of this situation is that none of the members of the board have shown any willingness to come to some sort of agreement except what it is. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. Here are some ideas about how this matter can be resolved. This can be done by handing over HIM activation according to the recommendations originally made and by two of the highest levels. Ministers of the present government think it is most successful to accept. This has been shown to be what is not studied for the activations of the lower part of The wound is a relatively specific problem. All of this can be solved. Let's just say things straight as they are. This council is held hostage by two speakers, ere. paritaprevir Páll J. Pálsson and w. The head of the pro board. They are strong in their ranks that the people, even their own people, cannot control them. They are responsible for bringing this council into such a crisis and crisis. [[The president calls.]] They should be ashamed to take the initiative. paritaprevir Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson, discussing the opposition. [[The president calls.]] [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u343	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has come up here and spoke in soft language and scornly about the solidarity of people and of Christian meditation here and all well with it, but people must also mean something by what they say. It doesn't mean to throw something out, talk about making peace, this and that and then mean nothing by it. It's better to leave it alone if it's not for real. This morning, we staff members of a job committee discussed a serious situation in many of the industry because of these strikes. What would you consider doing in this regard? Aren't people going to push the government to try to make deals? No, talking and speaking are not enough if actions do not follow words. From then on, we must work hard and let our actions speak, as it were. Senator? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[For example: I agree with you.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u344	The president who works here would like to answer a few questions that have been raised. Councilmen. The chairman of the council is now in the house, and he will be told what has been done here. They will also be contacted and made aware that their presence is requested and informed when available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u345	V.E.G. President. We're here to address a proposal for a resolution of a change in the synoptic resolution of a national protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 13/141. And now, notice, this proposal is submitted at the council by the highest level. The secretary of the environment then, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, and the proposed proposal that a well-examined case is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes that the following change will be made in the synopsis of a national protection and energy prevention programme, No. 13/141: Joint ◯Suindland,jórður, 29 Hahmings in number 2. (Page category) moving to Unit 1. .................... This is a suggestion that a well - thought - out and well - prepared case is presented by the Supreme Court. Minister, former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. It goes through ordinary processes and to the government. She goes to members of the administrations, she is approved and enrolled in the council. It's based on reviews, including. from the Department of Employment, from the Environment and Resources Department, where the process is being reviewed. This suggestion is a good one, and the conclusion is that it is wise to make this one suggestion, for Idolization. I'm going into my speech to review what happens then, not because I have sworn, it's totally incomprehensible to think of adding four new priming options and finding a backside to prove that some time have been discussed with these fortresses, a brilliant projector who is working today, the project management of the 3th class, who has received a request from the highest degree. Ministers asking for evaluation of the activation options made from the waiting category. The Project Management Board concludes: We can finish one, i.e. The inactivation. Then, more things take place anyway. Work committees themselves as task management, disregarding the others, and making decisions. We are to wait for the other person's decision when this proposal has been approved. Then come peace apostles like hell. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who says we should make peace. There's only one condition, i.e. that we start by deciding the thing, taking care of it, then we're going to make a deal. What kind of ideologies is this? The reason that there is much more and less coast, and this council stop is this indiscretion and the decision that is being made that if more part of the workforce is adopted, the process is being discarded and the process destroyed. If we look at more of the reports that were received. They say more and less: let's keep the process, let's keep the process. There are a wide range of opinions in the community, there are differences of opinions within categories, and there are various categories on which to be activated. However, there was an agreement on how the process should be done. To try so hard to avoid mountain backs, I feel that I am incredibly impervious and unreasonable. Therefore, we stand here and discuss this matter day after day, we are not going to let the law be ignored in order to establish an individual opinion as to what is enabled and what is not. V.E.G. There was a suggestion for one activation, Impulse reactivation, and this occurs, including From the council, and from the people that stand here, and many others have said, "Let's make a motion. Then we can do it, then step three with the other suggestions later on, regardless of what it might be, after making a careful examination. But, hey. Work committee 5 times the proposal, added four new priming options, Uryrofoss, Holta Reactivation, Spouse reactivation, and Hague Water activation. In the discussion, the current Environment and Resource Minister described doubts about adding these activations, described opposition to Hag Sea infusions, thought that Stockholm should not be included either, but added that she would recognize the Congress's right to make decisions, the church treatment. V.E.G. The former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, has not here discussed the matter, and has avoided doing exactly what he himself proposed and the proposal that the government brought into the council after the council had approved it. What is the absence is all about is what it's all about. Hv. The job committee, the majority of it, after we had been well - spoken and used before. in the context of the activation option - indeed, she started in December, if I recall correctly, to throw in a suggestion that there were eight sources of activation - ending with four benefits, knowing fully that there would be a resolution in the council and that in the final meters. It's kind of fun to look at the support of an ex-fiancence. Environment Minister for the original synonym. Now it's not that I can do the 20-year story behind a framework plan where men started in 1993, if I remember correctly, to define how to plan long-term plans and how to get rid of the conflict that has always been about individual activations. We've been able to cope with the presence of individual activations and specializations for all the larger inducers. There was a huge conflict over every place, there was a debate about the environmental impact, there was a debate over the purpose of the fortresses, there was a debate over whether the activation was sustainable, whether it would cause permanent natural damage, the effect on tourism, the need for lines, and so on, there were disagreements in the councils, and there were decisions. Often, a horse wedding was used when men were trying to determine activation options, but all of it was more and less attached to individual activations. Out of this condition, people wanted to know that there were no backrooms between administrations, or similar ways, about who would get what was left of the cake or the individual activations. But now it is clearly needed again for those who serve in the greater part of the employment committee to start playing the game and to care for some outstanding activation initiatives. The discussion had also changed during this time, and this was an increased requirement for environmental protection. The use of protection was beginning, but it had been previously often set up as contrasts. It was succeeded, as I said, over the pros and cons of the individual fortresses, and it was difficult to enter this discussion. I was one of those who had a very difficult time doing that, and I remember how memorable it was when I had the opportunity to go up to the Island Bank when it was ready to make the lag there. Then I took the dead man Hákon The Aðalsteinsson as my guide, and I remember what he said, because he had not taken sides with or against possible activations in the East, which he later took. Then he said, "You can't really go into this discussion because both ends are always fighting, i.e. The extremes at either end, and there is really no reason to enter into that discussion. Then he took a few examples. For example, he mentioned that if the loo came, all life of birds would die, but he said that he had never seen any goose or ducks that did not move. He also spoke about saying that the reindeer would not have enough space, and they made sure that there was plenty of room in the East. On the other hand, he pointed out that an increase and decrease in the surface of the lagoon would cause trouble with the clay that would develop there around the ground. This discussion will never get up properly on the table. We were looking for a channel for that discussion through professional groups, through professional work, through project management to be free of conflict, and then, of course, offer suggestions at the end of the Council. When this process was under discussion, it was to examine the use, protection, and peace, as well as various factors. And in the 2nd stipulation of the framework plan, the value of protection and the variety of natural resources was to be increased. It wasn't just a matter of activation, it was also the question of other uses, the sustainable energy resources and the permanent damage, etc. 66 ideas were then assessed, 28 water strengths, and 38 geothermals were measured. Subgroups were appointed, expert professionals, they were appointed as groups to examine nature, outdoors and tourism and benefits, the economic and social impacts of the inducers, and the efficiency and practicality. As shown in the council arrangement, i.e. The original proposal from the highest. Minister, will receive a legal framework first by law No. 48/2011. It is decided to form three groups, practical use, protection, and a waiting party. And just after the task management is returned to the minister of the 2nd stipulation of the Framework Programme, it is proposed that a Senate resolution proposed in a twelve week open consultation and reporting process involving more than 200 comments. This is in accordance with the provisional principle adopted at the council and by the law on how to handle the situation. After the narrative process was completed, some changes were made, but these boundaries were set, and it can be confirmed, in the government at the time, that we made no changes except for them as professional, grammatical arguments, and we never made any transfers between colonys and reservations. The conclusion was that due to additional data, there were six activation options in two zones from a waiting category. Notice, there is a difference in the nature of the newcomer's advantage for further inspection or, as presented here, for a newcomer. There's a lot of difference. All that was decided was to take into account these new information and precautions in general on how such decisions should be made. In other words, it was through the discussion process, stage two completed, work was submitted to the council, and the proposal accepted here. Note that the original process of this, with all its findings, was adopted unanimously at the council, because everyone mentioned the importance of having a frame plan, can find a way to make decisions about activation options. Controversy has since developed, so there should be no hidden differences in understanding specific aspects of the framework. Then you just start stretching various items in a frame plan, such as. where the word is said to suggest a new proposal whereby less frequently than every four years. Then they have allowed themselves to interpret it so that it can only be done tomorrow, agree to a proposal today, and then a new proposal tomorrow. This reminds me of the time when my Boy Scouts and I were assigned to a country in Krarradal, and in a paper from the Ministry, we were assigned to land up to 600 yards. The officials put on us 50 yards. Then a minister took the initiative and said: " No, we're talking about 599 feet [599 m]. It's the same here, when it's said four years, it's four years, not every four days. But this is where men reach as far as they can. There is no disagreement, however, that once the whole process has been completed, once the project has been completed, they will finally come to the decision of the General Assembly. The decision here and now is: Why doesn't the project administration complete the 3rd key suggestions sent to her at the highest level? Minister with request for haste, they set a time limit? She shall answer with one suggestion, for Idolion: the minister shall suggest it to the council. What determines that the results of the project management are not to be expected? What causes members of Congress to fall short? Work committees become project managers, and later they're going to see the opinion of Project Three Directors? This is totally incomprehensible to me, and I think we're here talking about some day that could change whether we're gonna beat this thing through, but then we're gonna ruin the process, some days waiting for the results to come and then we can make a decision about the continuum transfunctioners afterwards. Reading the report with the proposal, as it were, of the highest interest. The minister of the environment then, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. And I challenge people to do that because there's evidence to support why they did it this way and why they just suggested one activation. I don't have time to review that even if it's a 20 - minute talk, I could quote countless points in the report, but I can't go over it. There's been some differences in individual aspects in the process, no one shares it, we know it, and it means that it would be better to review the procedure, and if you have comments to it, you will make these adjustments to a frame plan instead of shun it, instead of breaking the rules and the laws or at least go as far as possible in order to compromise the interests of those who want to activate without nature's enjoyment of the doubt and to get the solutions of those things that have been involved in decisions about what to activate and what not to do. This is particularly difficult for us who are not here to protect ourselves from certain activation options. We're not here to stop certain continuum transfunctioners. We want to discuss the results of the project management and have the opportunity to have all the data on the table. She will expect to quote older opinions, and those who are now particularly interested. After that, let's go to the table and see what the situation is. Do not jump over and shun a task management program. And notice that this project manager has received his work from the present government. There are ministers from the current government who have sent assignments to project management. Hence, it is incomprehensible to allow yourself at the council to pretend that this was of no importance and to avoid it. The haphazard said it doesn't change that, of course, after all, and after the project management's over, there's a problem. The General Assembly of final decision-making agents for the outcome. When people discuss how this matter can be brought forward, I really feel that it's a modest suggestion from the government side to say, "Let's give the original proposal." She came from the highest. Minister of the environment with good logic. Let's take out what's a lot of baloney about. We are not taking sides that they are not going to activate the benefits they are under, we take sides with a frame plan, with the protocol, that the project management of the 3rd stage should be allowed to complete their work in accordance with the tasks assigned to them. It is at the same time a lot of thought that when a new government manages it, it reduces financial resources to process these programmes, reduces the money to the task management. And more important, in the law adopted at the time, in the section on Protection, it says that a decision to make regarding peace should be taken and not to compromise. A new government will take all of this out. Hv. Although I say: Is it strange that we find this strange in a new government that makes it out to be in the world's top row in the environment? She puts the Environment Ministry into the drawer of another minister, who makes a wise suggestion, some short of a project management, try to do everything further, in order to get past the process, for some fear that a project management will bring the wrong results, or perhaps it's overrated; men think they have more sense than the task management, although it's only to give their opinion, but they are the ones that we want before the final payment is taken. At the same time, natural protection laws are thrown off the table. Then it turns out that there are no differences in these laws, yet it has been spent more than a year without reaching its conclusions. I think it's just because of lack of work. At the same time, we are being asked to postpone it one more year. Can this government expect someone to take it seriously as a government that's going to fight that we in Iceland will be with them in the world's best environment? There's nothing serious about this. It is an old - fashioned macropolitic bitch in the back and the request to manipulate individual objects instead of following procedures and plans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u346	Mr. President. Now we are standing here to discuss this matter which should be approved here at the General Assembly, if the case ends here in a discussion, where it may be said that the Minister is breaking the law of Congress. If the people of the country had a legal right or could bring up a case approved by the General, laws, or bills such as this one that is irreversible if the fortresses were to be initiated, if the people themselves could call such a case to themselves, would the senator not accept the decision of the people of the land, whether it was to act or to protect them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u347	V.E.G. President. I've always been a spokesman for a formal hearing in which we can acknowledge how the discussion should take place, and then it should be submitted to that conclusion. I don't think there's any loss, as we've had at times, for the governments that represent the nation, that they should fear, and that they're more human if they can just admit that it's the conclusion that can be in harmony with the government's proposal. This does not mean that governments will leave, as some have been talking about. I agree with what has been presented in the general terms of national law. Of course, it would be a great source of strength if this were a requirement that a third of the council could refer to the nation because it included a change of tradition. I just agree, I think it's really important. On the other hand, it is absolutely clear from discussions, both now and often before, that the greater part can forever cover my parts, it is just a hostile general democracy and in total opposition to democracy ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u348	Mr. President. Exactly. The government has to be fixed in that way so that, as we have had it so far, the larger part, which may have 60%, maybe he has 51%, yet always has 100% of the selection. It's not much of a representative democracy, we need to widen and deepen it. One way to do that, like cot. A senator noted that the smaller part of the council members, whether it is 1/3 or otherwise, as in Denmark, could refer to the nation. It means that humans must be more intervening, the deputies, elected agents must be much more intervening on long-term events, and that's a good thing. On the other hand, I'm going to ask the senator if he is not in favor, and what the consequences would be if certain smaller parts of the country, voters, such as 10%, were able to take to heart and refer to national terms approved by the council, and the resolutions of the council. For example, what would be the consequences of this discussion, as well as its long - term dating, the box, and other such major issues? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u349	V.E.G. President. I think it would have exactly the same effect as I mentioned about the members of Congress, I think it would matter, the people can let us know that we don't have a problem with what it's like to do things. I don't think they're going to take advantage of this at the moment. I think people will take responsibility and be very careful. The benefits of paying national taxes are that they call for a discussion, and they require that people learn about and learn about it. So it must also be developed so that money - bearing forces cannot be presented here with harshness and violence to the common people. Rather, they have rules on how a presentation should be done so that all can bring their views into perspective. This is related to another discussion, which is also very important, it is the importance of public organizations, e.g. Agricultural protection, or those who want to monitor, as well as those who are activationists, is being helped to promote their views because democracy is based on knowledge, it is based on careful coverage, and the decision-making is to be based on, not the way it is being done here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u350	A respectable president. Hv. At the beginning of his speech, a senator introduced the proposal to the very beginning of this case, the proposal from the highest degree. The former Environment Minister, was on Hahming and reporting with the proposal, the main exhilarating form of the case, strongly registrared why a minister came to the conclusion and chose to follow the proposals of the project and submit this one option. Now, however, this proposal - which is well meant by a government proposal - has been moved by a minister after government approval - is taken hostage by a greater part of the same government. That's what's going on, the suggestion is really dying over the immaterial motion of the majority of the segment behind the same government. I've been trying to remember whether I know similar things in my mind and I don't. I'm asking why. Councilman: Does he remember that a government case brought by a government has such a terrible experience as to the same extent that is behind that government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u351	V.E.G. President. I've only been to Congress since 2007. I can't remember anything like this. On the other hand, I know an example of an individual being in the highest degree. Ministers in the present government have been arguing with the government whether they can't help them with matters because they're having trouble with a team of cooperaters. One might ask: Was there some fraud that was supposed to slip through just to try to get it into 2nd? with full weight and change? I don't think it's even been planned that way. Of course, you can ask yourself: " Why was this proposal put on the job committee, since the framework and all the information on it was heard under the environment and transport committee, and it was discussed there? There is some misunderstanding if considering a frame plan in Project 3 and activation option has become a business matter, that it has become the question that the shovel is now to be taken up, as it was said, to be carried out. Is it not better to know why you are shoveling and whether to shovel before you start shoveling?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u352	Mr. President. I agree, of course, that this is a government manifestation and more of it is in chaos. This is one of the countless examples we have in our hands, the example here. The question, then, is: How can one reason with the same section? I think it's the mission to try and save men in the country. I want to ask you why. Because he is a longtime schoolmate: Does he think of any learning or experience from a job that might be useful in trying to help more of the parts to see that he is out here in an impossible and needs to get ashore? I don't know if you can say that it's like dealing with bad kids or difficult students. Do the longtime school principal know any advice that we can try to be helpful with to the greater parts of this situation and help them build bridges again?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u353	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator was just one of those who called attention to what I'm afraid is going to be with the world's highest level. Government, i.e. that there is a great disunition between the parties of the board. There's a lot of trouble going on in the government. What happens then? Then you start to negotiate who gets what's going to happen in a power struggle for the rest. It's the worst kind of politics, when the horse shop starts, when it's decided: I'll do it if I get it in return. As for the principal council, I have said: It is our duty to direct institutions to read into the environment and prevent the conflict, i.e. not to create a conflict but to prevent it. It's knowing what you're offering. Sometimes it is that if you are having difficulty with certain individuals, preparation for what lies ahead may prevent the person from having a problem with the authorities. But if there's a problem, then the question is, How do we solve it? I think I've made a modest suggestion: Let's agree to what came into the council from the government. [[The president calls.]] Is that asking too much? It's scary if we start to accept something from the current government and the former environmental minister, that would be terrible, or what? Desperation on the part of a government stand-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u354	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator rejoices that we are here for a more objective discussion. Hv. A senator speaks of more than a part of a professional committee as appointing itself as a project management. He noted that the employment board is throwing out a frame plan. I'm pointing out what. A candidate is here to present the findings of the 2nd step of a frame plan, and this is exactly the results of the four professional groups on which the employment committee bases its suggestions. Hv. A senator points out that there is a new frame every four years, so this is the framework we live in today's program. That's what I'm talking about. A senator has thrown out that frame plan and has it become useless?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u355	V.E.G. President. True, I think we've been having more serious discussions about whether we're not discussing academic matters and strike - strike issues. That's a perplexing discussion. With the subject a frame plan, we are discussing the creation of a process. And now notice, the former environmental minister of this government took over and was determined by the law of Project No. 3. That's the top one. The minister asks task management 3 to provide the prime option set up in a waiting group and to speed it up. He's got the answer and he's making a suggestion. Do I need to say something different? The person who asks for it on an answer to a question. paritaprevir Páll, the Jóhann of Pálsson, has answered. The paper with the bill will answer that question. This is being discussed in Project No. 3. [[The president calls.]] The required response is on the basis of the options set out here, and this is being done before the task management returns. That's why I'm saying that a professional health committee appointed himself to be a project manager.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u356	A respectable president. Hv. A senator does not answer that question, and I understand it. I ask him again, is it? A senator handed out the important data made in the second stage of a frame plan? Is it the most part of a professional network that is supporting? I'd like to ask you, too. A senator. He quoted from his talk that because of additional information, six benefits were put on hold, and the proportion was disturbed between aquifers and a water drop. A number of comments have shown that the information on salmon populations in Þjóin is relevant for action's environmental evaluation, which is the next procedure under the Framework 2, the environmental assessment of projects is next followed by this process. Does he not agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u357	V.E.G. President. I'll give you a very clear answer. Have I thrown it away or interpreted it so as to discard data from a previous discussion? The answer is a clear no. They are asked to put aside additional information and to keep out of the comment. That's all they're asking for. The task management is answering that, and then I say, "Let's wait for it and then make a decision. " No, no, no. A senator and those who support the majority opinion of a professional committee are not going to do so, but they do not need to listen to it. She'll know that it can go through environmental food with salmon beds. The project management got from the highest level. The minister of this government has the responsibility to have it examined. The project management responded: We need more time to do so. They ask to speed it up. Let us stand together to provide a coin to complete it, not allowing the task management to be disabled by decision - making. Councilmen from the pro board. This is what it's all about, that's exactly what it's all about. There is nothing to be thrown away; there are additional requirements to ask for answers before taking the matter over. We are asking that the proposal be made by the Environment Minister for the current government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u358	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson for a fine speech. Many interesting developments were made there. I'd like to move on in a slightly similar way. It was stated on a job committee when experts in the stratosphere 3 interviewed that Elín Líndal, a specialised member of the programme, said that the available data had been sufficient on the three advantages of the Þjótur and that they joined a novelty party. The program 2 had been arranged so that the project in frame 3 was added information that was good and easy to make. In other words, she was opposed to a decision there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it was surprising to him that a hunting agency was not listed in frame 3 to discuss the importance of the salmon stock in the river, which we agree is important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u359	V.E.G. President. The first answer is exactly what I mentioned in my speech. All of this is to find a way to avoid paying attention to project management. One member of the Parliament, an excellent northern Western woman, produces a special mask, but a majority of the committees came to a conclusion; they intend to look more closely at the salmon fields. Yeah, well, that's Project 3. Let's wait for the results, let's see what they'll be. If all of this is so incredibly fine, and what Elín Líndal said on project management is correct, if it is true that there is only a lack of better information from Veterans Center, this is not supposed to take very long. Let's finish it. But don't go in the part and try to play before the project management finishes its part, not play that we, each of us, 63 of us, can make a decision without this assessment of the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u360	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. I can see that the senator had done all of this on his own earlier. I'd like to ask him a moment. When frame 2 was adopted and submitted, there were about 250 envelopes, a majority of which were photocopied and signed by people, which were consistent. Counts 'em out. The senator did not listen to them all, and change the order of the frame program then that the real peace had been broken, i.e. When the council took frame plan 2 and changed the findings of the expert committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u361	V.E.G. President. I'm waiting for the highest. Even if I place a small school principal tone in my talk, the president would respect it. It was set up a provisional law on a framework that required that a 12 week reporting process be carried out. I say as many senators have already done, including. Yeah. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson and others: What was to be done about it? Should you just say, "You can make notes and talk about this as you want, we're not going to take it seriously?" It's a methodology I can't stand. I ask people to get answers, and I listen to what people say. As a result, only one part is removed, i.e. The salmon roofs are examined for lower parts of the Red Sea, and there are other factors. It's put in a waiting party, it's moved to take a closer look. The task management agrees with the need to take a closer look. The minister sends it there, where it is for treatment now. [[The president calls.]] Then six senators from a professional committee come and say, "No, we know a lot better. There is no need to be waiting for some further expert. We've got it in our fingers, and we're going to get 63 senators to agree with us as if it were nothing. Don't work like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u362	A respectable president. It is constantly thickening when it comes to the ultimate attack. Education minister to the high school in the country. News is now being published in the media that the Ministry of Education has made some proclamations that it is possible to put down the high school at Hafnarfjörður as long as the Secretary of State puts up a wall against the word when that decision has been made. We've been calling here today for the highest. Ministers, come here and understand this case, that this matter will be arranged on the council program. It is very strange for the Ministry to comment in a town on such comments when it is not yet being made that way on the part of the minister to bring the case into the council. Of course, ministers in themselves can do the whole goddamn thing, putting up with the word, and then they must have authority. This means that there must be an immediate head count at the Senate Hall and see if the highest level is present. A minister has more than a part of such an attack to educate in the region and a variety of educational work in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u363	A respectable president. I think we need to come up here and say things over and over in the hope that someone hears or thinks we might have something to do with ourselves in this regard that a minister of education, Prime Minister, and financial minister needs to come to us to have a word about the serious issues that are taking place in the community. First, there is a workforce, and second, there is a revolution in education policy that takes place under cover of discussion on this matter, in which the Ministry of Education is taking place. paritaprevir Árnason's years have been well over. Nor can it be said that in the week before it becomes clear that a whole number of Icelanders are on a strike that will paralyze the air transport to and from the country and the condition of nurses will have a significant impact on health care, we are not discussing it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It can't go on like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u364	A respectable president. Jobs at the highest. Secretary of education doesn't make things better. I hope we'll have time to talk to him tomorrow about the work he's doing in the high school system. Then he always speaks in a different direction. For example, he now says that there is no such thing as to unite any school in the country. On the other hand, people in the country are told that they should be alone in teaching and under one law. Isn't it uniting schools? What else is that? A respectable president. It is getting very important that the knot at the council is solved or will simply be cut down so that the work assigned here can be performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u365	Madam President. Decisions such as those who are sleeping in the wind are not a good blow. Senators have made a subject before me, i.e. The decision to unite the high school of Hafnarfjörður and the Technical School, first comes to the ears of members of the media, and there was a considerable delay in answering questions about the harmony of high school. I pointed out earlier that in this room there has been a request from the first part of April of the month on the possible cohesion of high school. It is most unfortunate that the Ministry of Education is now making a statement as a result of what has been reported at the Council today without the highest level. A minister has been given the opportunity to attend the council and answer for himself in that regard. Hopefully, this will be a special discussion tomorrow, but one special discussion is certainly not enough to review the overall policy changes that are taking place in high school affairs. So I think it is most desirable that a prime committee and a respectable president discuss exactly how the Council should review such matters, since they truly concern a body of Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u366	A respectable president. One of the things you do when you're in politics is tryin' to understand what's going on, why people pick litigation and timing, etc. That's one of the things I've been trying to do about the decision to make this amazing and rude move at this point. I don't know if you're going to try to read contact with social conditions in other ways in that timeline. This is so specific in order to let the discussion at the council focus on something other than what is happening in the community and is so serious. It has been referred to as a labour market that is more serious than decades in Iceland, and it is now to be seen, and it is only being added day by day, that the Ministry of Education is cooking over the high school system in Iceland. Is this part of the reason why a frame plan, as is being made, is being developed to provide protection from the minister's political entry into his own business? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u367	Madam President. I wish for it, as do others. Councilmen at the highest. Secretary of education will be here at the Senate Hall and review what is going on in high school. What's the highest. Minister to go to high school? When should these changes take place? Are they to be counted this year on August 1? When should the council address these changes, which are truly policies and influence the availability of young people to high school and even at the expense of school? There must be some need to discuss this change in the councilroom. It is not enough to use a single sentence in a text with a budget bill to view changes in a high school level. That's not acceptable. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u368	Madam President. Of course, it is impossible to agree with those who have spoken here. We're very concerned about a lot of things going on in the community, outside of this house here. I'm going to allow me to think that it applies to many of the senators, that he's also concerned about the state that is developing here and which has occurred outside the councilhouse, not just here. I now state that there will be some willingness for a conversation to take place between a government and a position of government to find the way of this matter. In any case, it is unacceptable that we continue to go this far into the middle of the night, if ever. The government intends to settle here some other matter, which I believe it wants to do. Then you need to deal with the problem in this room and deal with the activities of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u369	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. President for accepting my proposal earlier today to interrupt the discussion while Iceland's contribution in Euroviation was being given on television. It is a fine consideration for members of the council at least, and to viewers that this character does not have to be done when such national events are being carried out. I wanted to call in, but I'm sure it's an understanding that a environmental minister can't attend tonight's discussion is normal. The pro minister of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson is here for her discussion. He was a minister of the environment when the Council's Relations Council proposal was introduced, was thoroughly familiar with the case, and here is the text of the Department of Railway, which is natural for the Minister to answer, since it suggests that the matter is not in harmony with the procedure. I call out that the consideration shown to the Environment Minister is shown by continuing the discussion, although absent, recognized by the presence of another minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I find it completely unacceptable on the part of the government to have no Minister in charge of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u370	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar that it is not acceptable for any minister to see fit to attend. I've, along with others, wanted to be here at the highest. former environmental minister and prime minister. Of course, it would be good to have more ministers here, but if no one sees why we are present, I don't see why we continue to do so. Isn't it true everyone goes home to the Euroview party and does what the majority of the management team is probably doing right now? But I just want to let you know that after a weekend there's gonna be a revolution in the East, and then maybe it's not a good idea that we're still on the same road with this thing, so maybe we should try to solve it before then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u371	V.E.G. President. The question becomes more and more perplexing as to whether it is being held by the General, mainly a smaller part of the Generals, is occupied with discussing impossible affairs, as we have considered, while the Ministry of Education seems to be doing only what he wants to do without discussing it here at the General Assembly. There are reports in the media that schools are being united, and it seems that academic matters are not meant to be discussed here but should only change the education systems of the country through financial laws. Of course, that is unacceptable. I simply don't understand why these teams are being held on. There's two o'clock. The members of the greater part attended this discussion, no Minister. The Chairman of the Committee is not here. [[The president calls.]] It's a complete end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u372	A respectable president. Is it not minimal to think that the traveling overseer, the chairman of a professional committee, is here in the hall when this case is being discussed? It's just completely out of control here. The country is totally out of control. In academic matters, it is suggested that the educational system is tolerated without discussing it with a king or a priest and then has a legal opinion that it conflicts with law. Here will be the largest strike in the history of Iceland next week, and no one will do anything. It's just not discussed. There are no proposals to take this matter on the program. What's going on here? It's not possible. Then the President of ASI comes to news today and tells us that in his career in the labor movement, he never experienced so much distrust in the government as he did in the modern government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u373	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the members of Congress who are required to go to the highest level. The former environmental minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, come here. He showed this when he suggested that he respect and understand the process of staging. He offered only one option, i.e. available for whom professional groups had completed their research and work. That is what he set out, and that is all. I would find it interesting to hear how he feels about the greater part of the job committee - I don't know what to use - dishonoring the good government he did and when he made that suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u374	V.E.G. President. I'm going to get the attention. As a result of reports of the inequities of putting the high school in Hafnarfjörður under Technical School, the president of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York says that education is being discussed in the media. What do you think is the logic when people start talking about whether they can or can't? This is referred to as a budget, and it is to be changed in the fall, soon after the schools have started, with interest in December. Worse still, it is quoted as stating a greater proportion of the legal committee when talking about health and education policies. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson and what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is operating through policy in these litigations. This is the arrangement for committees and what we are planning on. A general? I'm really worried about this. It's not gonna work out at all. Then there are the preferred groups, which gave 120 suggestions or how many there were. Of these, there are 90 who have been on our tables as ministers before, indiscretions and impossibles, and are taken as some document approved. [[The president calls.]] These are amazing schemes for planning, planning, and emphasis that the council is supposed to have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u375	Hear, hear!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u376	A respectable president. I suggest that this discussion be interrupted until the director of the employment committee is in the room. In light of premium. Environment Ministers are minimally required that the chairman of the Commission and the spokesman for this adjustment form be considered in the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, chairman of the left movement, is next to a rosary, and it is not in my opinion that she has to give her speech without delay. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is in the hall or someone else who can take his place at the highest. the secretary of the environment in this case while she's away. Good chance it's the best. Professional secretary, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who recommended the original proposal. My understanding is that the meeting cannot be resumed without being made aware of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u377	Madam President. Its access to education is one of the main conditions for good housing. I wanted it back to the highest level. A minister of education would come here to the Congress Hall to discuss with us the changes in policy and planning at the high school. In 2015, the Government Department agreed with a budget bill that students 25 years of age and older who wish to attend book studies could not study it in their locality. The country is now to be reduced to higher schools. That's why I wish not only for the highest. The Minister of Education is here to discuss these matters, but it will be the highest. A minister of the community with him, for this is not merely a change in education; it is a completely altered civil policy that is not consistent with the promises and declarations of the highest degree. Governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u378	A respectable president. I'm glad that interested senators have been able to watch the Icelandic European Environment Agency. At the same time, I would like to encourage the senators to continue their discussion of the box so that we can handle other matters for the sake of education and the job situation in society, but in order to that end, we need to finish this matter. [[The point is, why?]] At the same time, I encourage senators to... [[The point is, why?]] [[Take it up to finish it.]] Let's try to be like Euroviation, because people are so interested in Euroviation. Let's get it over with so we can vote on it. So that's the end of it. Then we can begin to turn to something else. Let's finish something. We can't expect the entire Ministry to be called out to listen to members of Congress to discuss a meeting with the president. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u379	A respectable president. I just didn't have the imagination to imagine what it was. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson - responsible for the case, spokesman for it, author of the attack. The minister of the environment, the man who has chosen to upset this matter and to fight for it at the back and back of his head - does not sit here in the chamber. I don't remember the progress of my council, which is now only increasing, perhaps uncomfortable, even though it is not a very long time, that the presidents do not sit in the council chamber when it is a matter of their responsibility. Especially should there be in this case, since the case has been completely changed since it was submitted to by the government. So I strongly stress the point. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson will attend the discussion and reiterate the request that has been made to delay the discussion until he appears in the house. The fact that he is present at the discussion is absolutely minimal. This is not the case with bedwashing. The Minister's gang, like the dog. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson expressed it, is under obligation to attend a meeting unless understatement. They are members of Congress, and they are required to attend a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u380	Madam President. I don't think counsellors have any pity to be at work. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson referred to the need to be at work as a distraction. This is the job of 63 senators, isn't it? Why should some be at work and others at home? This is not the case at other work places in the country. If a man is at full cost, he must be at work when he is working. Hv. A senator should recognize this from fishing and fishing roads that there people cannot stay at home when they are slaving for 224s. K. per month. I think people who are at a good buy, like the highest. Ministers are, can do their job completely, and stay at work. They voted with this night meeting, so they're supposed to be at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u381	A respectable president. Of course, it would be better to do the best. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson was at the hearing on behalf of the government so that there was someone from her who knew the story. But the most important thing is to try to figure out a solution for the knot that has reached the whole thing. I don't know if there's any reason why the president tried to get help. paritaprevir Friðriksson, who is a member of the management team, who has specifically contributed and spoke for a solution, and that men take it out of the chamber and try to figure out something together. Perhaps you might think, a respectable president, some kind of reconciliation committee under the lead. paritaprevir Friðriksson or at least suggest what. paritaprevir Guðlaugur, the Þór of Þórðarson, of the divine saying that the matter will go to a committee and then quit in a discussion in the hall for a while, will be scheduled and agreed. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u382	Madam President. I would say goodbye when it happened. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson had spoken of the President's conference management because I felt that he made a very interesting comment about the work of the council and the chairmanship of the President, a policy that seems to be in some legal order that the decision-making is made by financial means. In fact, this was discussed quite a bit with the last financial debate. You see, in all of this, when we settle the budget, there's no time for these matters to be taken for serious consideration. So I reiterate my request that I made earlier. A prime committee reviews how it is normal to make policy decisions - I'm not saying that they necessarily involve laws at once in academic matters, but it is a huge change of direction that involves the cohesive plans we have heard about in the media. [[The president calls.]] And according to what the Ministry has now published, the Senate's execution of money is a matter of subsidence, so the council will never be able to discuss that change of course. That's something to consider, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u383	Madam President. Painting is a systematic problem that can be solved by moving the language right to the nation, such as No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's financial minister spoke of a willingness to do so in the judgment of the people of the land, whether to make such a constitution with the election next year. In the meantime, it's a global problem. What the senators of the greater part now say is the same as the members of the greater part said during the last term; it's not about people, it's not about politicians, it's about that it's a systematic problem. While this is the only way to stop more part of a council of 32+ persons from going against the will of more voters of 10,000+ persons, there will be no matter what smaller parts are involved. The lesser part last did it. Prime Minister said earlier today: You're a little worse than we were during the last term. [[The president calls.]] There's no reason, it's a more systematic problem. Let us be honest about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u384	Madam President. The current issues, the national protection and efficiency programme, seem to be of no greater importance. The head of the employment committee, Jón Gunnarsson, who has everything - most, let us say, the credit for the changes made in the case, feel that for some reason it is not necessary to be present. So I want to reiterate the question that has been addressed to the highest level. A president, on the other hand, is. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson in a house? And yet: Has he been informed that if it is so important, he is included in this discussion? If he's not going to come here for the discussion, I suggest that this case be simply postponed. We have a conference until 12 o'clock. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure that the majority of us in this room would be willing to set up an education program and start discussing them already tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u385	Madam President. There's a lot of pressure on our infrastructure, there's no money put in them this year, there's no natural pass, no income of it, and we see--well, maybe not as much tourists as we expected in the light of the latest news we received today. But the activation plans or plans for them are not in the pocket of a hired person who's in a fight here, it doesn't eat the box. Nor can the heavy industry compete with tourism, neither in currency nor in profit, for that matter is absolutely clear. But most seriously, we have here a work programme manager working at the same time as here are making decisions at the General Assembly by a small number of senators on their work, their mission. Of course, it is a very serious matter when we have filled the staff with employment and then decide to interrupt it because we think we know better, or that. Yeah. Six members of the pro board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u386	Madam President. Right away. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson looks in his mind for a word or term that embraces the government. It may be a bit hard to describe the government in such a way, but perhaps it is a sign of the time. In modern English, it has become a ◯ gang of men, meaning that these are a group of people who make war against a peaceful society. It may well be that the growing proportion of the nation sees the government in that way, and it is certain that even individual government officials are now calling the government that name. What, then, can be said about the problem? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson. The head of the employment committees who have taken the council hostage, who have abused the law to force the program on matters even two of the highest. Ministers against you? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: If the government is in his sight, what would he like to call such ones?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u387	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is intriguing for us senators to know whether all members of the administrative body are behind the decision presented here. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's death until this matter is over, let's just get it over with, he says. The reason we don't want to get out of this is because there's a process that is being shunted and a process of reconciliation that was supposed to be a process in the way we took up a framework plan. I give the responsibility perfectly to those council members, including the U.S. Yeah. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Paul's, Pálsson, to have spent his energy convincing all his members to present this matter before a discussion of academic events, of some other things burning in our society that is related to what we want to solve in our time. [[The president calls.]] It's set up as the main and only case. The responsibility is 100% in the administrative sector and shames him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u388	A respectable president. I've always been trying to find a comparison with this workplace and what happens in the business world, and I'm getting more and more involved in how we spend our time here. That's why I agree. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar when he says we need to try to figure this out. I'd think that when you were at sea in the old days, the bagman didn't fix the knot properly, and it was pulled open all the time and when he boarded the boat again after a three or four-hour stretch. It seemed like a lot of time, a terrible blow to it. I feel like we've forgotten to break the bag at the council and be messing with our time. We're all talking about it, but we're not doing anything about it, absolutely nothing. That's the sad part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u389	Madam President. Well, the one here has to talk after a reason. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson is an old bagman on tugs and never got set up. However, it is shocking to know that the person who has gone out of this chair makes a big statement that he sees himself as a representative of the great fishing man in the group is the one who represents the United States council. It's him and the head of a professional network that no longer knows the sledgehammer, and that's what they are. prevents good people from making mistakes. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who, tonight after night talks about making up for a solution and possible solution, is the men who come apart every time the troll is cast out, and their responsibility is great.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u390	Madam President. Painting is a systematic problem that can be solved by moving the language right to the nation. In the meantime, we're in this sort of controversy here that's super-hour, because it's just the steel we meet here. The target of the day is in the hands of most of the part. They believe that they got more in elections, of course, only 49% of the voters in the whole, but by the people who chose and received representatives of about 60%, it's only democratic in the power of the 60% that they have 100% of the programme. They're just supposed to be allowed to decide. But there is no particularly good democratic arrangement. The complex is a systematic problem because it is used by everyone, also by the highest standards. More than that, they did the same during the last terms. Let us be honest with that. There is a solution to this matter, a solution where the issue can be settled and the head high, however, because this problem is way too intense. I encourage those on this matter, and I love to talk to each other and encourage the president to take the matter off until they can figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u391	A respectable president. My words can be interpreted as convenient. I don't think I have a negative sense of the word, but maybe there are people who know it only about some underground activity. We've got a landing gang, and there's a lot of positive results. The most capable men are in such a march, but humans can try to turn it all the way. Regarding this innocent proposal as a major part of the employment committee, it is based on the results of the step 2 of the Framework Programme, the only report that has been given a legal process and the time to work. [[Up front.]] Framework 3, this quick treatment of eight options requested by Project Three Framework Director, is not a complete report. [[The president calls.]] This is the only report that has a legal history behind it. That's what we're based on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u392	Madam President. I come up here in my second speech on this matter, a change in the interpretation of the plans and protection and energy use of land, but, of course, most of these 2 countries have. the highest proposal. Environment Minister is about the change of plans. Congress members of a large part of the job board. In my first speech, I tried to discuss these matters from the big lines, i.e. On the other hand, on the basis of the impact of this change process, the legislation we have on the framework of the policy framework but on the impact of such a policy presented here, for it is certainly policy-making on the part of the team. Congress members of a large part of the work programme, have a future job structure. I don't think it's a lie when I say that the use of Icelandic energy resources, which we can also call eco-efficiency in everyday speech, is one of the biggest political differences in Icelandic political history over the last two decades. The last major challenge in that area would be I would say that Kärilla's activation was long and extensively discussed at the council. I have no doubt that if the activation option had been classified according to the types proposed to the legislation on the Framework and project management of the Framework Programme, it would probably never have been attacked. It has, of course, been presented in a talk and a later publication. The ideaology is behind trying to put these issues into this process, which was later confirmed by the legislation adopted here in 2011, was to overcome the controversy that involved it, so that we could at least get at least one. taking a stand on these issues, certainly based on our political opinions on employment and environmental policies, but be fairly sure that the professional research that needs to be done on possible activations all before. It was clear in the time of the discussion about Kaldrum's activation, that the data were not sufficiently inadequate. This was part of the reason why this changed process was being carried on. What beats you when you read the reviews that come to your mind. The employment committee after the change is stated, it is that many people are deeply concerned about the process of Framework and the legislation on the Framework Programme. I nominate to begin with the review of the Agency, where it makes its first comment that it is important for that professional process to be completed. It says here, by permission of the President: ▪... the Organization believes that the treatment of changes in the management of the majority of the employment committees does not fully agree with the rules of law based on as detailed below. Then, individual activation options mentioned are considered and strongly encouraged to complete the procedure. Other comments, or comments received, can also be read to form from the local people at the lower part of the winter, from the Preservation Fund of wild salmon strains, which cites their earlier detailed statements and the research that the fund feels must be done to the salmon strain. Perhaps the last one has been called Uryrofost activation. In fact, I remember that when these matters were discussed, as the Mörður of the Árnason noted in a recent article, there were some causes. Councilmen of the Independence Party Urfys especially serve as the prime option to wait on. At this point, the insistence on whether to move this option or to propose to the officer at the highest level. The Environment Minister for a closer analysis of the benefits and added to the waiting party was the activation of the lower part of the Tubular wound, specifically referred to by many whales. The members of the Independence Party, including the head of the party, which would normally be delayed, are quite large in the evidence that had to be obtained. For example, it has been observed in the discussion that people who have discussed this have chosen to cite older data, the results of project management in Stage 2. People have also chosen to quote the old conclusions of the Allied Union of Iceland. I think it's right that we look at the comments of the All-American Union of Iceland, because it has been held in the discussion that a frame plan and its approval have something to do with the release of the graffiti and not from less than the highest prophets. Prime Minister. Here's a review of the National Association of Iceland on this subject. By permission of the president, it says: The European Union of Iceland feels that it is important for the General to support the wide agreement on professional practices that have marked all work in the preparation of a national protection and energy saving programme and therefore suggest that the proposals of the project management at any given time be respected. This is a review of the European Union in 2015. To be honest, I've found it incredible, so it's important that this discussion took place, to hear it. In support of the case, more than one member of the body cites an old conclusion. I wondered, anywhere else, but at the Council, it would be acceptable to bring old data. I'm sorry to say what. Congress is expected, but in general, in public discussions, to be supported by the latest evidence and research, and to go to the libraries to seek argument in their language. I've been listening to what? The members of the greater part do this without hesitation, quote previous project management, old conclusions, so I feel a bit like you are on the ground where it's chosen from which the political policy of the greater part of the world today seems to be more appropriate. It is so disguised as professional work practices, that what is already being done in professional evaluations, but when asked why we are discussing these changes - that it would obviously have been the most wise thing for me to wait for the results of the current task management. I don't have anything less to do with it than a report at the top. Environment Minister, Environment Minister for the Refugee Party. Here's three down. The council members in the hall, and I still haven't figured out what it's all about. Councilmen do not support the minister of the report made in their name by the Environment Minister and are highly responsible for it. The Environment Minister requested that the project management of the Framework Programme cover a number of options, to remind me of eight activation options, the bottom line is the bottom line. Ministers to suggest that one option moves from a waiting category to a novelty party to propose a task management. Nothing that has been said here has been able to back it up for me. I've been trying to ask you what. Senators, when they've gone to the top of what is on, what is such a difficult issue, exactly what is to be done. Mrs. President, you can't afford to come up with an agreement that the wheels of your business have to turn. That's not an acceptable language. We need to realize why we are in such a hurry. The members of the greater part of the Council intend to ignore professional practice by waiting for the results of the project management. I'm looking at it. Councilmen in the greater part of the job road committee and ask them to check whether it's the wise thing to put aside the vessel that, of course, moves over you when discussing matters that are close to your heart, whether it's really the most wise thing to pull this adjustment, wait for the results of a project administration, and do this as the law commands, so that there are no doubts about how to work. Madam President. I see that my time has passed and that I have sometimes said that I believe that the arrangement of a Congress people in 2007 is to shorten a talk period so that there can never be any especially long talks - I am usually in the first chapter of my speech at the end of time. [[The president calls.]] I guess I'll have to come back up a few times. But this is the wise way at this point, to withdraw the adjustment, wait for the results of the project management, and then we can deal materially with the situation, but at least agree that the procedure has been followed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u393	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's opinion of the arrangement is that we can start to see the people calling for a case approved by the General, whether it is law or Congress. In this case, the people would be able to get the case to their satisfaction or in terms of pay of binding national law. Bigtime. A senator accepts the national decision no matter what the nation's final decision on the matter would be about what should be activated? Would she accept that final decision? In this case, the natural qualities would be referred to the people, and then they would be truly rejected. Bigtime. A senator accepts the final decision made by the nation what should be activated by what would be dismissed from the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u394	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for this question. Hv. Councilmen of the left green made a suggestion that the nation would be subjected to Kärilla's activation and declared ready to accept the result of that vote. However, I think it is very important that these cases remain professional, i.e. ... thatwego on doing this professional thing. I have fought for it, and I spoke for it within the current Constitutional Committee, appointed representatives of all classes, that a very meaningful provision for the Constitution will be made so that a certain section of the country can demand a national payment on certain matters. I think it's normal that it's not just legal but it's the ability to make decisions like this. I have also adopted the view that a certain section of the council should have such a saying. I've heard that objection against the fact that in this country we're here to be a member of Congress, the politician, so it'll create an eternity of unrest. On the other hand, I believe that such a court in my part of Congress would have an effect on the Senate and the politicians. Like what? Of course, a senator knows about them is the problem with direct democracy, if you are willing to do so, that, of course, the people can make decisions other than you feel right. It's like a national vote, you don't always like the playoffs, it's just that. I've been ready for that and my category with the European Union, that huge deal. We would follow the direction of the nation in that matter. In fact, I believe we can do this in far more matters than we do. I'll get it. Yes, but with them it is important to maintain the professional process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u395	Mr. President. Exactly, it's good to have a professional process in which we have a representative democracy. It would be nice to add some direct democracy. There would be a wide range of applications in the government with professional decisions. But if decisions made at the end of the council are contrary to the wishes of the people of the land, then the country has the opportunity to stop them in a binding way. Of course, it would be possible to make an even deeper arrangement for direct democracy so that the people could offer a proposal that would then have to be turned into a law or constitution. Both are an arrangement in Switzerland. Now I'd like to ask the senator how she felt, that given, if kept in mind good policy work and rules, as the box on the use of energy resources is in this country, and the arrangement would be that the people of the country could bring a case to the National Pay and a more part of the council could even, as the senator said, do so. [[The president calls.]] How would she feel that the politicians and these systematic problems that would change the language? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u396	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate that direct democracy is not just about votes. In many ways I believe that we can use it much more in our early decision-making. Then I am witnessing to introduce to you ideas and legislation on the Internet, as at times it is certainly done, and fortunately there has been a considerable increase in the number, asking for comments. However, it is important to process the comments, that they are new. I believe that governments can take advantage of the methods of democracy much more, especially of the contemporaneous one. I don't think it's necessarily positive that all cases are going to a national fee, but to get together the debates over large and controversial matters in order to bring the discussion closer to some conclusion, I think that could be a very good way for the government to figure out what the public wants for individual affairs. How would this affect the work of the council? I have no doubt that this would have any effect. We can only see it if we look to the councils of our neighboring countries that it has a smaller share than simply to take advantage of the Senate's public talk program on large and controversial matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u397	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a well - and - substance talk, though I share her view that she had been a little longer than that. I agree with what. In terms of the cry of distress - in fact, it can be said - that the different sources of information, which, in part, beg the committee not to go that way, do not upset this process. It caught my eye to see that as different people as the European Union and the UN and Organization should all ask the committee the longest words not to get upset by a frame plan. I wanted to stop at that part of a talk. A senator in her position to explain her motives. This is not to say that lack of energy is a serious problem in Iceland. In this discussion, I have not been able to direct myself to one of the projects at stake if the energy costs on which the adjustment is made will not be rushed by one year. The suggestion for 27 benefits will appear on September 1 next year, so we are talking about hurrying about one calendar wound, no more. No one's ever been able to explain to me what pressure men have to go that way. Are there activities at stake? I don't know that the electricalisation of the countryside is at stake or that it has access to safe electricity or its distribution pathways, rather than the distribution system, which is a distraction in commercial electricity use. I have not heard of any project that cannot be signed on right now, based on the fact that further energy initiatives are being developed and on the basis of all the energy available to us today. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator, for she is now mostly more informed about this party than I am: Has she heard such a thing? Has she seen any explanation for this noise and panic? Especially when we consider, as I traced to my speech earlier, that we could be offering the golden goose by hurrying in this way because the processes of the law are being hampered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u398	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the aged Árnason of years, answers that question. I've pushed her forward to a few years. Councilmen and the highest. One prime minister who said that many projects needed energy but did not specify it. Now I understand that four plants are in the process of preparation. As far as I've understood, only one of them has not been fully secure in terms of energy. No other tasks have been mentioned to me except that there is still considerable uncertainty about this plant. So this rush is incomprehensible to me. I've asked you why. Since members of Congress have not wanted to mention any particular assignment, I don't really know what is going to happen in this hurry. This may be linked to wanting to get something out of the way but, as I say, walk on these professional processes. I don't think there's any convincing evidence that humans don't argue. Like what? A senator rightly said that we are to expect the order of these costs. The step 3 task management will continue to evaluate the benefits as discussed below, which are proposed by a greater proportion. The World Trade Commission is moving on to a colony party. The task management will continue to evaluate them. No such project has ever been mentioned in this discussion, which provides the basis for us not to wait for these results, so we can cope materially with matters without creating uncertainty about the value of the Generals' conclusions. A senator mentioned. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, who is also a member of a business committee, has added the risk that even some legal procedures can be made up of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u399	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm trying to understand here, reading the suggestion itself, on the size of the whale activation, which I can't quickly remember who is. I remember if it split a dozen megawatts, be somewhere around 40 or 50 megawatts, it's about enough to power a silica plant. If there is only one silica plant that has not been signed because of lack of energy, then there is now a small problem with the accepted proposal as it is since the highest level of energy. Minister. Is it not clear, then, that this is going on without a promise? There is no special material need for such panic. It is only a matter of risking extreme and important social interests, and there is no way to describe the identity of the Veterans, but because more of the employment committees are interested in bringing down the environmental minister and showing their power. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u400	Mr. President. All I can say is what I've been explaining about these discussions that I don't think they are. I don't think anything has been moved here that's triggering this haste, this diadem. However, in this discussion, there have been a number of factors that support the theory that the present greater things are still due to the shock they suffered, especially by independence, to lose control here for four years. This has led to failure. Councilmen of that party have been very in the past and especially during the last term. They find it very difficult to cope with the apparent shock, since this proposal is well established by the lack of any agreement in the management of this case during the last terms, and therefore there is good reason to walk past the professional process of a structure. I may, as it were, flirt at projecting such teachings, but while there's no better reasoning, I can afford to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u401	Mr. President. I don't trust myself to participate in the psychological autopsy at any point. A senator committed before that. The members of the board and especially the two members of the board, in principle, explain why. The senator noted that some sort of psychological hides the advice of the contributions from this adjustment proposal. Of course you can agree, but I don't trust to evaluate it. Hv. A senator spoke of the session as being too short; she had many things to say and inexplicably. Then I can comfort you. A senator by saying that if you suffer from any of the lesions. A member of the council was still receiving the council hearing, so it is likely that after a summer, it will be able to express to us what is blurred in many sharp, five - minute talks until the beginning of August. [[Up front.]] I wanted to, Mr. President, because of what. A senator is an intelligent being, talking to her alone, which is the basis of this matter that if they are directed to become a reality, it would not be possible to force it to move forward in a few cases. I've often wondered about the basis of an education. It is permitted according to the Constitution in the event of any urgent national distress. In this case where we're talking about energy, there could be two mostly, there's a lot of unemployment, but I decided in my time that it might justify a possession course, even if energy was lost in the country, but neither is now available. Then I wonder and I want to pray. A senator's opinion on the fact that two companies on the market make their agreements in fair terms that land is under compulsion and forced by someone. I'd like to ask you why. The senator's attitude on this is due to her now being part of a category where at least Some men, I might point to a friend of mine. þm. Ögmundur Jonahson, don't give much for his private property rights. [[The president calls.]] But there's a reason. A senator of my opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u402	Mr. President. I'm so lucky to be sitting right here next to the intelligent man. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's aged Árnason, who pointed out that there was a why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson with a clever trap he was about to set for me in an attempt to make a difference between me and my dear party members, okay? paritaprevir Jónasson's son's adulation about the value of the property claim, but I will not fall into that trap. [[Up front.]] Mr. President. I've cast these psychology theories mainly because I've heard nothing better, I've heard no better theories about the hurry. I'm still waiting for it, so I insist. Senators of the greater part in coming and arguing more about why people are going so far on this matter. In the absence of such explanations, of course, I can allow myself to have various theories. I will not, though, call them very professional or based on a great deal of knowledge other than eight years'experience in the past. Members of the Independence Party, among them. In terms of our possession, I think, even if we are. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson may agree that there is a reason to be private rights, then we have an organization in the country where land is private and that taking possession of it must always be a reason for public interest. Like what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson correctly points out that they could form overwhelming unemployment or some such thing, but that is not the case. So I'm going to try to get out of this trap by agreeing with both of them, okay? Skarphéðinsson He also says that when you read the reports about this case from the locals, the council of the Crown and Ögmundur Jónasson, a variety of candidates on the back of the blues, most of them in the same way, it's an incentive for us to wait for the results, as I have repeatedly said in my short speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u403	Mr. President. Hv. A senator continues to deal with the impossible, believing that it is possible to unite my attitude and attitude. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son to the property rights. I don't think I will, but I still respect his opinion as a partner. Besides, I wondered why. A senator is not on the wrong shelf, because in her good answer before, she did not seem to be able to tear herself away from the psychological anals that she rightly started on worthy subjects that were killed and an army about the hall and wanted to make the shoes that there were also some sort of psychological reasons behind that I posed questions about the private rights, she thought that I was trying to create some sort of psychological tension between her and her. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. That would never come to my mind. I, however, view it as a matter of opinion that from the perspective of vacationists as many independents are, and I tend to believe that some of their thinking about this cannot be protected from taking possession of land because some two companies on the market make a deal between them. [[The president calls.]] There must be national interest reasons for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u404	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodin son answers the second. It is to answer my interest in human nature that I have now kept a journal, perhaps I'll give it out at some point. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Ophphdinsson, he can learn more about my speculations about human nature from my experience here in the chamber. Certainly, it is true what I said earlier that there's a lot of public interest to be there. Of course, their reviews shine. Of course, it is our job for a senator to try to evaluate and weigh the interests when we take our stand on matters regardless of what we have discussed here in the form of maintaining the public interest, putting public interests ahead of personal interests. Of course, that must be the standard we use in this matter as we speak to others, that must be our role. In fact, the political problem is that not only in Iceland but also elsewhere in Europe, it is when politicians just forget about the public interest and are too busy with special interests. [[The president calls.]] [[It has been noted that this was the title of the fourth senator who had wished to give a reply to the senator's speech. The president wants to break the point of his mania and allow it. paritaprevir 5th a.m. South, Paul, Paul Paul Paul's son, to give the talk if the speaker is not opposed.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u405	Give him half an hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u406	Let's just take a note of this example.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u407	A respectable president. I thank the consideration and cannot help but stake my friendship on the fact that I knocked on the table and asked for the word. Thank you. A senator for the talk and rejoices that we are here for a more objective discussion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with me in that the results of the second stage frame plan, which I do not question, if she knows quite well, this benefit here, are really not the only plans that have received the legal process with fully developed professional groups and that have taken all the priming options completely according to the law - whether it agrees with me in that these data are fully valid. Then a step 3 project manager who works for the next schedule is asked for any quick treatment that they feel is not fully capable of fulfilling. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will agree with me that more part of the employment committee is entitled to take any note of this report, or whether it has become a target document.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u408	Mr. President. There's a bag that's right there. A senator referred to and held here in a pontu certainly includes very important arguments in all discussion of a frame plan. However, there is no grouping. There's a score out of individual professional groups. For example, if I may say so disrespectfully, as well as as as as as a patron class, we can take Witch Age, which has both been severed. Then there was the conclusion of reassigning Norway's diorama into a reservation. What's happened since - and that's that, Mr. President, I've been highlighting - is that the benefits of a waiting party at the Council of 2013, as well as other benefits we can call a new option, take into consideration and order for Project Three. When I say that I don't feel like witnessing to four - year - olds, I'm not beinglittled or even saying that there's not a lot of professional work there. What I'm saying is that we who work here at the Generals need to consider what has happened since then. What has happened since then is that we have agreed to a frame plan, a new task management has been appointed. She's in the process of staging 26 projects if I remember correctly and sort them out the context of what is to be in protection and use and what to remain in for. V.E.G. The Environment Minister specifically asked this project management to consider eight benefits, and this led to its finding that one was fully studied. I feel that, without me beinglittled in the process, we are in a different place now, and we can't discuss this matter unless we take into account what has happened since then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u409	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees with me that these are important data, and thus he agrees that we are not going to do the job, the job committee, in their work. I'd like to quote a review from the Power Institute, which shows that the data that the project management 3 will request, as it argues that these data are at home in the environmental assessment, which is the next step behind. It says that more research would have to be made on the effect of salmon fish in Þjódra. However, such environmental evaluations should be considered first in evaluating the environmental impact of action, as Article 5. track No. 106/2000. Many comments, including the reviews of the Power Agency, and she now knows things very well, point to the evidence that the information requested is not at home in the environmental evaluation of projects which are the next phase after this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u410	Mr. President. I just have to say that the environmental assessment of performance, whatever. A senator mentions, another part of this process. The current process is the order of the task management board, in accordance with the Law on Framework, the established government which has the task of making a suggestion to the highest level. Environment and resource minister on specific options. It is her task by law to establish these benefits in the practical use, waiting, and protection, as we know. It's a job of the highest order. Environment Minister to request information about these benefits, as suggested by Project Management of Impulsion. Then, when this work is done, we can make it a point to talk about it. But I don't feel that it's possible to intervene in the process of the project management. That's it. That process is going on, as if I was going through it in my microbubbles. If this proposal is approved, which I really hope will not be, then we senators are interveneing. [[The president calls.]] There's no good work, Mr. President, that's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u411	A respectable president. I want in the highest. Before the program progresses whether there has been a contact with any acting environmental minister for the discussion or for professional secretary, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, to represent the government of the case, as has been called. I think it would be at least to make the discussion a little more moody that some data source would be available to discuss before the council on the European Commission offering the proposal for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u412	A respectable president. Earlier today, a vote for the duration of a meeting was adopted, and a greater part of the council concluded that it was right to meet here tonight. We had an appointment to walk one o'clock last night, near midnight last night. These have been mentioned by the committees that have started in the ninth hour in the morning, and most of us have participated in committee meetings both days. I'd like to ask the highest. The president whether he intends to continue this meeting much longer, because I think we want to see from all political goals that are reasonably uptight and with us when we're doing both Congress and committee jobs. There's not much here for the representative of the greater part, the greater part that voted for an extended assembly meeting. I'm asking a president about the length of this council meeting tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u413	Mr. President. It is a systematic problem, and it doesn't matter who's in the smaller parts and who's in the greater part. Those in smaller parts, regardless of who they are, will always use it. This is a systematic problem that can be solved largely, with the need and need for justice and temptation to get the court of speech in their hands, as the members of Congress and stewards are now very well spoken of. We'll probably stay a long time tonight, I don't expect anything else, but I call after the president reviewing it, taking this case off tomorrow, we come fresh back with the new schedule, the housing, we're going to discuss it, and while the President just puts it down before the council to figure out a solution where everyone can take care of these matters with his head so reasonably high. Once people have invested so much in this sort of event, it's always good to find a common way out, although we're not breaking frameworks, we're not breaking legislation that is best designed to create long-term energy policy dating. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u414	Mr. President. As my colleagues wish to know how long the meeting should last tonight, and as I did here earlier today, and sort of at the beginning of the discussion, who will be taking over the affairs of the environment and nature of the government. It's not that. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, that's obvious, he takes the company of activationists, but it takes some counterweight, so it's not unusual for us to call for the government to follow its most important issue from the barn and a ship to take care of it in view of the absence of the highest. Environment Minister. It is not acceptable to sit here for a discussion, an extended meeting, the majority of the members of Congress offer us, and most of them do not participate in it or sit here during the discussion. We need answers, a respectable president, sooner than later in the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u415	Mr. President. It's not entirely historical that there's always less of the stuff in the language. The history of politics or the Senate contains many things, including the minister of the seminar during the night that were preventing a proposal that would have amounted to distrust of that minister. Now that we've been here two days or two days in a row with a meeting until midnight or more, into the night, and we've started a committee meeting at eight or a half in the morning. So we have two, and actually two and a half days with an hour work day and five, six hours of rest. That is why it is absolutely justified to ask the highest question. President how long he intends to continue this. Isn't this going to be a good night? I think the president did well and would build himself up as a picture if he went to the President's example last night or under the night that finally announced, desperately asked, that one more case would be delivered and that would be enough. I think it's enough to have the third day with a 16 hour day job for us senators. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u416	Mr. President. That day began with a hailstorm, now that Iceland fell out of European television stadiums. I don't think anything good will come out of this day and the discussion that's going to continue here, if I'm to be completely honest. I told them yesterday at midnight that research showed that the quality of the speech at the Generals followed the events of the evening, in fact, protesting. A senator, Aggressor of Össur's Skarphéðinsson, yet I doubt that these objections are entirely based on the right basis. So I agree with those who wonder how long to continue the discussion in view of the fact that this is not the answer to the questions that have been asked. They don't have any answers. The questions are repeated, yet there is no answer. Then one asks himself, " What is the claim? ' Is it not better, then, to try to put things in a different direction, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u417	Mr. President. I and the head of a council of the left green we were wondering if the matter should be put in a new knot, a pawn, or a bird's fat, they might run up rather than the bigot that's in now. There's been a little bit of the environmental assessment of performance or environmental assessment, and I think there's a big misunderstanding there at the end of the day. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann the son of Pálsson and others. The environmental assessment of the Agency is subject to the Commission and is considered only, not a decision, and will not stop at any time. Environmental evaluations take place during the implementation of task management initiatives and can therefore follow-up reports, as occurred with some benefits when Project 2 phases were dealt with. So there's a big difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u418	A respectable president. There were a few preparations in the platform last night. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir to hurt the President's answer to how long he wanted to see him. I don't trust myself in them but ask the president to recall in my mind how they were presented, which was about repeating the question of how long it would take to continue the meeting. I think that would be a good first step in improving our communication, and we do not need to change the constitution so that a respectable president will answer just a question asked by the General speaker. Is that not a good start? How long does it take to meet?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u419	Mr. President. It is one thing after another that, under the leadership of this government, Iceland even is released from Euroviation. I'm not gonna teach you why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, on the other hand, because he has made a silent decision to address himself later in this discussion, I would like to ask him why. A senator if he can take time to break away from the sobriety of the former legal president and only listen to me, if that is really out of the question on the part of him. A senator is to have a word outside the conference with members of the government opposition in order to bring about the controversy presented here. Of course, I know what's going to happen. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who wants to make a decision, I believe that a much softer and milder decision can be made, and many more can accept it. In case of a moment. A senator wouldn't have been so busy watching Iceland drop out of Euromunion then maybe he could have listened to my speech in which I described it. I'm asking why. A senator because I know he's in the heart of the Boy Scout: Isn't he really willing to try to listen to people and try to promote reconciliation in this case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u420	A respectable president. Now it is only a few people here are scared of the councilroom and become very few members of the smaller section, indicating that they have not even below to listen to what is being done here constantly during the discussion of the chairmanship of the president. [[Up front.]] I don't think that's interesting. A respectable president. I've been up here in the General's symposium and pointed out that we would have to try to settle these matters, but it would not be done on that basis. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir has offered that the matter will just be retracted and that there will be no agreement, nothing can be negotiated, there has already been too much active in the country. While this is the case, we have little to discuss, but of course I'm willing to, as others in the greater part, sit over and discuss some practical suggestions to resolve the disagreements that exist here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u421	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear from what I hear. paritaprevir The man who has worked most strongly on this matter is Jón Gunnarsson's son, who is willing to discuss matters with him. However, he must understand our position in the administrative part that we are not ready to buy... [[Up front.]] What did I say? [[Take it up in the states.]] Yeah, we're in a bit more here tonight. We are not ready to buy an expensive price from his hand to fall from lawless things. The key point is that there are neither material nor legitimate reasons for the matter. As we have discussed, there is no need here; there has been no way to point out a single task that cannot be signed on the basis of whale activation and the activations already of the Neonates. There is also the possibility that a proposal will be about 27 on September 1 next year. Then I'll ask him, "What do you mean? [[The president calls.]] Why must a careful process that produces good results be upset?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u422	Mr. President. Now I don't think to take the captain himself at the word, boy. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, and immediately postpone a meeting and do what he finally offers, to sit down and talk to each other. That is exactly what must be done. It's in the spirit of what I think it's fine that we remember that while the Allied Group is a great deal at hand and complex society, there's legal authority and financial authority, political debate, monitoring and maintenance with the executives, there's also a community where, despite political debates, it's also a society where it's a good thing to remember to show consideration and respect for one another. I'm sorting it out by making real experiments to get out of this mess and saying that there's more of it for ourselves that we're trying to find a way to land. It doesn't matter how long the presidents keep men here on the third night in a row at night-and-night meeting to start the blue morning to work again because there's an open discussion and there's no fraud at the government stand, with this whole thing not going to work out. [[The president calls.]] We have been impressed by the willingness to discuss the case and, among other things, that the proposal itself from the government gets all the other subsidies in the discussion, and we subsidize this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u423	A respectable president. Because of the words that fell here about the presence of my body members, I'd like to know that I asked here on a switchboard half an hour ago about the presence of members of members of the Parliament, and from nine members of the United States Congress, there were seven members of the 19 members of the House of Independence Party. The members of the Independence Party have left the house and left their agents behind on a professional committee. This matter is becoming so fucked up that none of the company's leading forces or members of the council would like to be involved or held in charge of this lawsuit. That's why only members of the Independence Party are on the provincial committee at the house, no one else wants to know about it anymore. So bad for the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u424	Mr. President. Earlier tonight, it was a bad one. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson said that there was no need for the minister to be here tonight. Now he talks. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson of us who are here at work, only a few people are scared of. That is not a lot of respect for people who are at work. In other words, we are at work, which involves more than others. Of course, there is. Ministers to stay at work and follow this priority. Isn't that right, then? Senator? I think there's a reason we cut down a meeting and leave it at the highest level. advisers to rest if they do not trust to sit here for a night meeting. It is disrespectful to us who are here at work and who are talking about us as a few scared when others cannot show up for work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u425	Mr. President. I should probably start by thanking you. A senator for not calling his colleagues in this hall acquiesced. But it has to be said that the speech he gave earlier is the only speech he's been giving for a long time since it doesn't stone grenades in every direction. Looks like we're just about to hit the road. A senator may find some way to settle this matter. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has agreed with many of us that it should be tried. It seems now that it is. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is coming in the same path. Of course, it would be interesting to know what the former chairman of Iceland's legal society says about it. Does he not also feel that a person should try to find a phase of peace? I want to make it clear that while men try to take this matter off the agenda and go to the important thing, which is the serious situation that is developing here in the community where there are conflicts of work and tens of thousands of Icelanders are going into a strike. Where are the ministers? They're hiding. [[The president calls.]] They're scared men who don't have the guts to deal with the problems. They dare not face their own people. That's why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who gives them the shelter to hide in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u426	Mr. President. I don't have much to add. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said earlier. I think it is the best thing to try to rest the delegates now and especially those who don't trust themselves to show up and be expected evenings; at least they're not here unless they're doing something else fun outside of this workplace. It is true that there are many aspects of what is going on here, although no one from the government side was left to discuss these matters. However, those who wait for their terms to be corrected, whether at the workplace, at old age, or by disability pensioners, or by who they are, do not eat the intended activations, that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u427	That's weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u428	They need something else, whatever. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It would be wish for her to take more part here in the President's conference board to promote her opinions because she has a lot of them and would certainly have something good to say to peace. [[... more or less, I was just...]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u429	I was putting myself on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u430	Mr. President. In these talks and in these discussions all together and in my conversations with members of the Parliament, both more part and less that know the matter than I do, it seems that those who were in the least part of me have considered themselves to be guilty and have given fine reasons to do so. They're said to be such a bullplay, a sort of cheating, but they've still been inside the boundaries of the law. What matters to me is that we don't lose this frame, this law frame, that we don't put it in legal uncertainty so that we don't lose this policy, a long-term policy modeling tool, for long-term energy dating. So I think Jón Gunnarsson would be a man greater, although he thought he was a crime than he was, in the last frame of the law, with some sort of bolt, if he would find a solution and settle a point of view in which this case could be successfully understood without breaking the box. [[The president calls.]] If he did, he would do well to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u431	Yes, it would be to withdraw the motion Svandís Sovenís.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u432	Mr. President. I say my peace of mind to object. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. I don't think it's a very expansive language at the time. Senator. In fact, we senators with the left green had done the highest work. We're going to have trouble meeting tonight by the President. V.E.G. The president decided not to consider it, and here are six of the seven members of the left green, the only one not here, or on his way home to the legitimate success of the Generals. Hv. A senator comes here, complains about the discussion, is struggling, and then says, "There's no one here. - Here's ten o'clock. A major section of the 38 he commands is the members of the council. Is it not true that when we discuss these matters, Mr. President, we have the facts?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u433	A respectable president. Something's going to get in the chest at any point. My colleagues that I call us a few scramblers who are here at the councilroom. I just keep it, it's a known Icelandic term and I don't think to humiliate one or anyone, either myself or anyone else here. But we are here now, what, three, six, nine members of the 63th Assembly Hall. And it is not expected, as a respectable president, that members of the council are engaged in a discussion that is far more important than in material discussions. I'm sure that if we were to focus on material matters, we were far more concerned. It takes two more to make peace, a respectable president. It takes an agreement on both sides. All that's been offered is: take this matter back, you finish it, there's a legal disagreement on it. But none of the smaller parts have provided any logical support, written logical support, a legal opinion on how to break the law, because it can't be done. The law is being carried out, and I've encouraged senators to stop doing this. [[The president calls.]] So I encourage us to continue, a respectable president, into the night. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson has often been called, but not merely by any senator, it's good to stay here until sunrise, and I think there's a reason for that. [[The president calls.]] There's a 18 on the roster file, just like the score is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u434	The president wants to propose to the council that they try to stick to their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u435	A respectable president. There is a debate in the labour market and there is much disagreement, but there is a discovery and meeting and meeting, but no one speaks of a filamentist being in progress, trying to reason on some conclusion. We have no choice but to stand here and discuss with the few members of the greater section who are willing to take this discussion. I would like to commend those who have cared for it, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, of course, would be best if we sat down like one of the workers and actually tried to find some solution and reconciliation. I just wanted to have said that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u436	A respectable president. I reiterate what has previously been reported on by various members of the council that there is every reason to do so in the light of what has happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has told us to take the matter off and discuss it tonight; it can be discussed in the morning and found out. Clearly, this process does not produce anything; however, it constantly shows how weak the problem is, the mechanism of motion through holes, but it does not lead us to any closer conclusions. This matter must be settled and some wise conclusion made. It cannot include buying expensive ones, making more of the employment committee legal. It should be pretty much by default. Therefore, I think that it is the most successful thing to do and to pay for the Senate to take the matter off and follow through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u437	V.E.G. President. I can say what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's buggy that I'm well aware of the fact that the former president of the Legal Society is deeply interested in seeking solutions. However, the former curator of the legal society has never fully understood since his beginning at the council that the government situation has a great deal of interest in seeking solutions, and most of all about these matters. After listening to a discussion about what was the same political opposition under control during the last period, it was a real challenge to settle the box, as shown in the fine book that is commonly mentioned here, written by reason of the question. paritaprevir My son Skarphéðinsson's bug, it's very clear that there's no one to do that on account of the majority of the government opposition, and it's been obvious to everyone. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] The only thing that can be negotiated in their opinion is to comply with their demands and have always been that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u438	A respectable president. It's a strange situation in which the Allied Congress of Iceland has entered. It refers to the conference board of presidents between every speech being delivered at the council. Now the government's lawsuit has been turned toward calling for reconciliation, but it has been observed that there is no reconciliation in the government stand, at least not, a respectable president, at the front of the government stand during the council, or at the head of the council. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, who was environmental minister at that time when she as a minister has a 14 - year contract program on what should be used and what should be delayed. That's what this is all about. This called for what can be done to make peace. A respectable president. It's actually going back, drawing back the best of decisions. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir from her minister's reign and put the frame in the place he was before the Continental and Left Green made up between the EU and the box, as shown in a recent book. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u439	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: [[Up front.]] 1st The job of the Senate. 2. Specific discussion of study arrangements for the student's test. Painting is Sóggis Svavarsdóttir, and to the contrary will be the minister of education and culture, Illugi Gunnarsson. 3. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 4. Electrical law (systemistical programme, EEA rules), Industrial and Business Directoring, 305 suit, 1005. It's called "System" on deck. 1091 and 1226, respectively. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 5. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, the management of industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392 committees on deck. 973 and 986, leading committees on deck. 1228, continuation of the second. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir. This proposal will begin tomorrow at the beginning of a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u440	V.E.G. President. We will continue with this discussion on a series of national protection and energy efficiency programmes, involuntary Involvement, 244th matter, the Qualification of Environment and Resource Ministers. It is the continuation of the second discussion that follows. It is important and, indeed, that we make the case the case here at the General Assembly, with some publicity in my first talk on the subject. As a matter of interpretation, the discussion of the matter is only two. So this is the last discussion on the subject. After this discussion, there will be a vote. This, I believe, is necessary to say that during the discussion, especially in the front of the discussion, caused quite a difference. The members of the administrative body simply would not have realized where the matter was going, so they suggested that after the discussion the case would be considered, which would be very good if possible. In the original Senate arrangement, at the highest rate. a current environmental minister recommended, suggested that Aggressive Idolatry be replaced by a waiting party. It was quite interesting, however, that the matter did not work out. Environment and Transport Committee on the first visit. As I believe most people would normally have felt normal, they did so. Business committee. That is when the controversy that has been fought over this issue began. In the processing of the committee, more items were added. Professional committee, premeditated by what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, made extensive changes to the original proposal and, in fact, so great that the one here finds it hard to see how to claim that the same matter is involved, but in reality, it is quite another matter. Change of motion, like a dog. The employment committee has suggested that, in addition to Hlammation, there are four other methods of activation to the colony class, i.e. Peritoneal activation, Ural deactivation, Hyperventilation and Haemagglutination. This adjustment has been made - like an Icelandic country, if not an international nation - should meet up with considerable opposition, to say the least, here at the council. This is, as previously said, being making some amazing changes in the case between discussions, in a language that does not return to the committee, and therefore is in the final discussion. Many people have been advised that this proposal does not comply with the procedure adopted by the Framework Act, although the task management programme has not completed the analysis of the activation options added to the proposal. This is made clear, among other things, in a memo written by the Department of Environment and Transport. This work ethic has spoken against and will continue, I believe, until the case is taken off or some form of agreement on how to end it. As if it wasn't enough, it also came to the highest level. In the discussion, the prime minister further interfered with the fact that the matter was part of a business discussion without explaining it any further how. I don't know that this explanation ever happened, although it was repeatedly called for. V.E.G. In the media, however, the secretary of finance has said that this proposal is not an introduction to debate. So I ask: What should we believe in this matter? What are we supposed to think? Despite repeated indications that the matter is not for discussion - it is very difficult to understand why or where the matter is heading - it is the highest. Be limited in what you can do to replace the program. Today, a two - part recommendation on a program proposal has been made, suggesting a smaller part of the Council on a new program. It suggests that this case, a national protection and energy efficiency programme, will be initiated and implemented to the highest level. Prime Ministers report the job vacancy to the General. Before I started my talk, like the highest. The President introduced, the third part of the program, which will be agreed on at the beginning of a meeting tomorrow, that this matter will be taken away from the program, and the issues that are urgent to be addressed at the council immediately; it is a special discussion of the preparation of study for the student test and the labour market, that this will be the first matters to be taken up. I believe it is important to have traced the past few days, even though, in short terms, or in a bit of dog pocket, to put what has been going on here in context. V.E.G. President. The programme for the protection and energy efficiency of land areas, Impulse activation, and the adaptation of more part of the work committee, which, as mentioned at the outset of my case, is expected to include four other activation initiatives, in addition to Inhiming, becoming a colony class, i.e. Peritoneal activation, Ural deactivation, Hyperventilation and Haemagglutination. However, this has happened during the discussion. The employment committee has drawn the focal point for the conversion of the Hag water activation process by reporting that it is applicable to other views than to other activations in the proposal. All right. So the adjustment is, you might say, less evil to remember water activation. However, the other suggestions, which are being addressed on a work programme that has not been completed on the other activation option, are still in place. I agree with them. Councilmen before me have spoken, pointing out that this proposal is not working and that the General must allow a project management to conclude their work. Or is the purpose of all of this perhaps to discard the process of a frame plan? I'm just hoping it isn't. The task management had completed their discussion on the idea of Aggression, and everyone agreed that it could be discussed here and that this is not the original suggestion of the disagreement. V.E.G. President. The situation of activation in Iceland today is that some 50% of the nation's energy is already activated. Then all is included and within the waterfalls that I think most of us would agree that they should not be activated; that their value as they are from the natural hand is simply much more than ever could be if activated. It may be concluded that more than half of the active ingredient has already been activated into the predictable future and even longer. This is important to me in this discussion, for in Iceland today we have an alternative and better chance of a valuable creation than going into the centres that have not been studied well enough. However, there may not always be. So I think it's a big responsibility that we, who are adults today and have the authority to decide whether it's here at the Council or just our right to vote, do not enter our natural resources in an irreversible way. We have no idea what the future holds, except that future generations, because of global warming and climate change, may have fewer options, may have fewer possibilities for destruction than we, who are at our best today. My opinion is that as responsible individuals, we must part the country so that future generations will have some choice in the future. Travellers today are our greatest currency source, but there's no guarantee that they will always be. These tourists aren't here to check the continuum transfunctioners. On the contrary, they have come here to examine unmoved nature. Both here at the General Parliament as well as in a general community talk, it has been noted that because of pressures at certain tourist attractions, much of the country's major tourism must be directed around the country, the pressures to the most popular places today. I'd like to ask that question, ask it here, if it's not in the big context of national economic cost - instead of constantly thinking about how we can activate our natural resources with electricity production in mind - looking for ways to activate our natural resources in a way that tourists can look into them and enjoy them and associate with them in a way that nature is not harmed. It has been pointed out that as a result of exorbulatory activation, one of the most effective activations. The employment committee suggests that if you enter a colony, you will be entering a common place in the central highlands, which are the most unmoved in Europe. And then we're not even talking about high-voltage lines, roads, and any other humanized objects related to electricity production. During a very interesting last weekend of national protection, scholars from the most diverse sciences discussed the value of the highlands. There Þóra Ellen Þórhallsdóttir, professor of botany at the University of Iceland, discussed the natural value of the region and said that it contained ecosystems that are rare worldwide. In her case, she stressed that one of the most valuables of Iceland's highlands would fall in the unique values of landscapes and farsighted areas and that they would be preserved only in large and vast volumes. This is something I think we have to listen to, at least listen to. Páll Jakob Líndal, a member of the School of Psychology at the University of Iceland, explained how psychological research has repeatedly demonstrated the positive mental, physical, and social effects of nature, and the positive attitude toward nature that is far more positive than that of the environment. However, negative attitudes toward the environment increase with increasing environmental structure. V.E.G. President. I will not hide my opinion that we should take very slowly and think carefully about whether or not to attack further activations. As I described here, so many interests exist when a decision to activation is made. This does not change the value of the professional tool of the framework plan and that by following that process, we can be reasonably certain that the environmental impacts of activation would be as well available and have been as thoroughly investigated as possible. In it I consider quite a lot of endurance and comfort, for I trust a framework plan well in order to conduct a professional assessment of what is practical and what is, in terms of nature, simply preconceivable. So I agree that it is necessary to draw an adjustment plan. The job committee back, and we should stay in the discussion about the original proposal at the highest level. Environment Minister and completing the assigned work. I'll agree with a second and a half. The employment committee that proposes the case, by permission of the President: ... will be referred to the Environment and Resource Minister who hides the project management of the Agency. Section 8. the law on the protection and energy efficiency programme to deal with the advantages and groups of the initiatives that the Energy Agency has sent to the project management of the third development programme, cr. administration since January 20, 2015 In view of the environment - rather than causing a start with poor thoughts and simply illegal suggestions on bringing up a waiting factor - I cannot help but agree that we have to let the project management of the frame management programme complete our work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u441	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a well - and - substance speech. There were several things in it that I specifically stopped and one was when she mentioned the growing problem we have, which is the application of sensitive natural bulbs. So I wanted to talk to her about the fact that my attention has been brought to my attention by professionals that it is entirely lacking to assume what the value of Uryrofos may not be. He is once the wateriest waterfall in Iceland, and he is basically available from the ring road, he needs little road construction, he can be made sail on the whole way, thus distributing the pressures that are already high on Gold Falls and elsewhere where people want to see real Falls. It has never been calculated what the benefits may be in the light of tourism and its increasing needs for places to take people to, what Uryrs'worth can be like. I specifically mention this because during a discussion three years ago, very many senators, six if I recall correctly - including many prominent members of the management team today, the highest. Secretary of the budget, please. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chief. Senator Einar K. Guðfinnsson - don't attack the activation of Urfyrofos until further investigation had taken place because there was a controversial possibility. I'd like to ask about this approach. Senator: Is this not an application that needs to be more thought - provoking? In view of this growing need, what would Uryrofos be inactivated as a destination for tourists?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u442	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years for this question. I think it's very good. My opinion is that it is extremely important that we begin to examine our professional worth of individual spheres in their cleanest form. Of course, it takes careful action when you open up a delicate area, making it easier for tourists to do so, but I think it's quite possible. Like a snooze. In this case, a senator did not need an enormous amount of road construction, so the cost may not be that high. I think it's extremely important that we do the work to try as best we can to determine what it means to keep the Urtrass and many other valuables uncontaminated. Although we enjoy the privilege we have today, when it comes to earning money, there is no doubt that this will always be, as I entered my speech. We must leave some options for future generations so that they can determine for themselves what is best for them when it comes time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u443	A respectable president. That is correct, and food can change rapidly. More than 40 years ago, when I was born, there wasn't electricity in Snæfellsi, where I was born. My father was chairman of the Stingingos Committee for Electricity. I'm not older than I am, though. It is worth noting, too, that in those days, waterfalls had nothing to do with anything but what could be put into use, with electricity. Today, travel services provide currency revenues that are more than three times that of the industry. This can change, basically, in less than one human age. [[The president calls.]] Is the speech lesson...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u444	There's something not quite right in there, but... A senator gets...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u445	What I wanted to ask you. A candidate outside, and she stepped up in her speech, and the change has taken place. She mentioned that the proposal was kind of unknown from what she was in the beginning. Does she not feel that it affects whether we can be head - head - above - and that we can accept such a fundamental change in the subject of the proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u446	V.E.G. President. Yes, and that's what this is all about in these last days. Can we say to the general that these changes are made in a case? I believe that there have been some very good arguments, of those with considerable experience working with Congress, that it can't be done. That is why I feel so important to bear in mind that this proposal was presented between discussions - this is just a final result, that is to make a final decision in this discussion. Of course, you can't force such suggestions into the council, discuss them and votes, and then live, goodbye. No, this isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u447	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's been so much since the highest. At the beginning of the council, a minister of the Environment moved his resolution, which changed in the treatment of the committee. One thing that has been done is that a minister must have used his influence to get Hag water activation ablaze from the changing process and, hopefully, the smaller part. It has been discovered that there are some misunderstandings in the committee's opinion that there are a number of innovations. It also showed that a member of the council felt that we had much good discussions and that the matter would be discussed more fully with the committee, but this is a second discussion, so the matter does not return to committees. What I feel so uncomfortable about this case is that it was somehow not and is not ready. It may have been ready when the minister presented his decree, but then so many things have happened. That's what I feel uncomfortable about, it's like you're discovering things along the way that you might not know entirely. I'm wondering what. A senator does not feel strange that it is as if a minister did not necessarily have the same opinion, and even as some members of the council stand with the minister, not by force. The head of the professional trade committee, for I have understood the Minister so that she wants to go to the ground with care. It is also interesting that the former environmental minister suggested only one priming option. I'd like to hear what you're talking about. A senator will think of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u448	V.E.G. President. I'm like a dog. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony is very concerned about how this case has developed here since the order of the matter was given. As I said in my speech, it can be said that there was a perplexing point of view. A minister of his time when he suggested that one priming option be moved from waiting to a novelty party, and his discussion had been completed. That's why I can't figure out what's going on. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and another who. The members of the Parliament are in the middle of what they call a major incident. The employment committee considered making these adjustments, for I don't really want them to deliberately plan to destroy a system plan. That, however, will be the conclusion of a discussion of the last days. I may be too blue-eyed to think of this. Congress officials do not want to destroy a frame plan. I agree that I feel like I'm in the highest position. The environmental minister of all this case is very strange. Well, it was the highest. One prime minister who initially threw it into his discussion that a change in proposal would be made in order to adjust the proposal and to the highest degree. A minister agreed that it would be done. She just doesn't go far enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u449	A respectable president. I've felt that people, the people, are generally willing to take a careful approach to the earth for activation purposes, even those who are activationists, we can say. I think I'm right when I say we sell about 80% of the energy to industry and we don't necessarily get a very high price for energy, in some cases just a low price, but, of course, there is some industry of the industry. I feel so weird what we're talking about here, it's like something's on the ground and we're all about to keep working. This may be due to the misunderstanding that there are clearly members of the committee, that there are only 10 benefits to the activation committee - the Neo - colony class. [[Taken up on New Year's Eve.]] I don't think you've got it all figured out. Hash anything? What do you think? A senator's concern is that it will not happen if we wait six months, or are all underneath? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u450	Madam President. No, it certainly doesn't. I think we're right next to what's going on. A senator that the nation is becoming very aware that we can use the resources of the country in a much more practical way than by applying them. That's exactly why a growing number of tourists in the country need something to show them, so tourists want to come down here and leave their currency in the country. I think the nation is here a number of steps ahead of us. More than a part of the job board in realizing that we have to step very carefully to the ground and that it just doesn't seem right to put more advantages than we already do in a novelty party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u451	Madam President. I believe that there is a rather theoretical rule against a senator, though a young man is growing up under his arm. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon can be considered political blue eyes. But if I don't want to go out further in the cause of these words, I say yet, "Great is your faith, woman." Hv. A senator made a subject of a recent conference that was held in order to value a natural model, including the central highlands. I didn't give much to the conclusion of that conference. What was the value of the central highlands? Half the macroquanauts this team is about to release, 80 billion. It's ridiculous. Now, name me a thousand billion, I'll start listening. However, I think it's very difficult to ever appreciate this money, and I don't know if it's any desirable thing to do. However, the very purpose of my words is thatlasta, which is the cost of life. Councilmen and rebels, who have taken the lead in the government, made their unconcerned efforts, but still marches on the edge of the Middle East. If it becomes reality, it's likely to have electrical lines, there's roads, then there's the I and I, and then it's going to hit explosion sand and power lines. It may well be that the conclusion of the nation eventually becomes okay, but it can't be said right now. It is a question that is completely taken away from these suggestions and, in effect, possibly away from the framework itself, needs to be discussed independent. Will we engage in human projects in the middle of the country? I'm not sure that the nation is ready to do so. That's why I'm asking. A senator: Does she not believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to take the actual discussion: Do we want to go into the central highlands? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u452	Madam President. I'm going to try to keep my belief that mankind is doing good and that there's a little bit of work to show me otherwise. Regarding whether nature can be valued for money, I agree with that. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's bother that it may not be possible, anyway, is a serious problem. But I wondered, " Is it not enough if we consider nature to be worth more than what we could get out of it by making something humanized of it, e.g. by activating it, whether it is at least some kind of measure. If today we appreciate it so much that it is worth more, even though we do not know what the final number is, that is enough. And then I'd like to say that I couldn't agree with that. A senator says that we need to take up an independent discussion about the value of the central highlands, both for us as a nation, but also on a global scale. And I think there's a discussion that always needs to be going on, because changing like the ones I mentioned in my speech, global change and global warming, of course, changes the balances. So we certainly need to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u453	Madam President. I also believe in the good in man. I believe that men are all kind and want to be kind. I believe that the Independence Party is kind, and many good things have come from it, including He's got this family business right here. There's another story, and out there it can't be. I'm very cynical at the approach men have adopted in recent years that nature should be valued for money and, for example, for example. I will consider the central highlands for the money. Lord faithful, if it makes so much worth, then the moment we stand to fight is a little further, it's so small. It can be shown that all kinds of fortresses, roads, and gods know what is of far greater value. The Princes' speech needs to be done. She's never been better. And there are new and changed emphasises, new attitudes, only from the time that I as a industrial minister pointed forward to this document called a frame plan, e.g. the need to decide for themselves whether they want to enter the central highlands. Until that question is answered, no fortifications on the central highlands should be provided. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say, just for that reason it's enough for me that I don't want to at this point once have to take a stand on the Tank.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u454	V.E.G. President. Would it not be the first thing that independent people must worry about where they are heading if they are born of such an equal kind? I like it, actually, but I'm not sure that independents think it's a very successful development. [[Up front.]] But I'd like to finally say it and again that I think it's extremely important that we take up a discussion about the value of the central areas and the value of nature and not just from a moneyy point of view, though, of course, of course, but as it were. A senator named them, as it were, has a political merit if it is willing to do so. We need to do this work, with everything that is involved, social, cultural, historical, and not just money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u455	A respectable president. At the House of High Priests in Thyatira, they said that they were already doing it. I think there's a reason to call for the president to respond to members of the council who are expected to be at a committee meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning and were here for a meeting until two o'clock, when the meeting was scheduled to be concluded. The truth is, it will be best if it is now, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u456	A respectable president. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir earlier tonight, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, I asked for a special request to the president that he took into account that in VG it is very difficult for us to meet tonight for a special reason. The president did not rely on his request to consider the situation that was long before. Still, we have stood our place in a council hall, despite the fact that I wanted the president to take this into account. Now I'm gonna ask a president if it's not enough. It's almost 11:00 and I don't think anybody has to walk from the President's chair to have a meeting until 11:00 in the evening. I'd like to kindly and honestly ask a respectable president to call it a day. [[The president calls.]] There are 18 people on the rosary, so it will not be emptied tonight. So there is no great danger that this case will end in an hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u457	Madam President. I have to agree with the words of the chairman of the left movement to make it a good thing to do. I'm next on the rosary. I think it's the same thing about me as it is about what I'm doing. A senator, as I said here last night, the last person on the rosary, that there's not much chance of delivering here to night and in the dark. To the extent that the matter continues until late into the night, much is called on by material discussions, until late into the night. Of course, there are answers to how long the president will be planning to meet. There is nothing unusual about it being informed. I sure hope for a time that the answer will not be answered, but it will be timed. There must be some thought, and it has been discussed on the part of a president for a long time tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u458	Madam President. It's almost 11 o'clock now, and we're still discussing this case. Everybody knows what that means. But okay, if the President with his program decides to keep this program going and that we speak till night, we will. As has become so obvious, there is a systematic problem with the language. Communicating is actually the only reaction of the lesser part to influence the program. The rest of the thing has 100% programmer power. The President has virtually everything, but members of Congress can call for a vote on a change in schedule, which can be changed by the majority, so this is really a conflict on the program. However, the president has it in his mind that we're still here, and that's just the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u459	A respectable president. It is clear that this matter has gone into chaos at the council and has been in a state of confusion since the news of a change in the budget of the work committee, which was placed in the middle of the process and before the final talk presented here. If so, you might begin to imagine that this discussion will be endless. It has been said of the last days that there is a reason to sit down and try to resolve any solution to the situation, since the matter was in such a bad way that it was not done at the outset. This is basically what you know from the management education as an illustration of mismanagement. But once we're out of the corner, there's nothing to do but bite the molar and try to solve the situation. I encourage more of what you've done. The job committee for opening it up, as I heard it. þm. Jón Gunnarson's doing it earlier tonight, sitting down and talking things over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u460	A respectable president. I can see it on the inside web of the council, where we can see the President's watch that only two presidents are written at the Watch tonight, those now in a house, distinguished presidents of Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir and Óttarr Proppé. I ask them, "What guidance have these presidents received from the Supreme Court? " The President of the Einar K. Cheff's Guðfinnsson for the duration of the assembly. There must be some guidance on this, so we can plan for the next few hours. I don't think it's too much to grant the request to tell us about it, because we have more responsibilities, a respectable president, and I don't feel that being able to respect that answer is a lot of respect for the time and energy of the senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u461	For this reason, the president wants to say that after midnight there is no plan to continue the conference. The President hopes to do it. Senators respect that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u462	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. At least a president for informing us how long it will take to continue a meeting. Nevertheless, I would like to protest that the last hour should continue. I don't think it in any way for good or in any way that we may be able to unwind the knot of the matter, which is indeed what we need, not just at the right time. Because there are other important issues that we need to discuss, members of the community keep everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u463	Madam President. This idea of a lawsuit being a systematic problem that can be solved by the giving of the language rights to the nation will be well submerged. I have a situation where I can always watch how many IP numbers are recorded, how many people check in, and how many like, and how many thumbs it is that if you get 10 likes for 100 IP numbers, then somebody's there. On my blog, people can go to jothoolafsson.blog.is, they are very familiar with this idea, and people are beginning to understand that it's a systematic problem, regardless of who's in my own section. And there are solutions that can make Iceland's politicians much better and at the same time introduce the first step to direct democracy and only bring us into the 21st century, and one is that the nation itself will receive the lawsuit, so if the Council approves of something that the people disagree with them, the nation can stop it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u464	A respectable president. That's a good reason to say the last one. One of the reasons why this matter is difficult to allow for this matter to end at the council is because it will not go to the President of Iceland after a discussion where a decision could be made to appeal to the nation but will be finally agreed here if it is made. I would like to thank the president for knowing that the meeting will not last longer until midnight and I would like to say that while I believe it is the right time to leave the night at that time, it is not for selfish reasons, and I'd like to, a respectable president, to discuss here all night and all morning morning and all weekend if it would take, 24 hours a day for that reason, working to handle the bras in the country, handle the hedges and the money needed from them, work on such things as the conditions of a housing market, etc., but not need to be undone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u465	A respectable president. There has been a complaint that there was an unnecessary amount of time spent in the President's conference board, but this case is growing just to the point where President's conference board has to be discussed and how all of this has entered the council. One good thing has come out of this, and that is to the top. Secretary of finance is starting to talk about changing the council, so I'm celebrating it. Then he has begun to agree with what I and a number of other members of Congress have held out both during this council and before, that's a good thing. I would like to be able to use some other means to get more of my listening, even if I would like to drink a bad drink or run bare-legged in the East or whatever, I don't think that I would like to have a conversation with people who are not necessarily ready to talk to me. But this is what it is, and if this is the first natural thing to stop the matter going through as it is set up now, it is very good, and so is it if the highest. The secretary of finance is seeing the light as to the need to change the council, that's the best thing to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u466	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. President, for telling us that this meeting will not last longer than midnight. That is good, for then we can take steps despite the end of the evening. It's clear to the highest. As noted here, the president of Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson did not consider that certain responsibilities had been made to be carried out by members of the Parliament. It is, of course, most reprehensible. The president does not take that into account. There are many members of the United States, and many of them do not care for our responsibilities. And in this case it is so, unfortunately. We are faced with the fact that here is the president who, in effect, brings in other congregational duties by refusing to let the program stand for less than midnight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u467	Madam President. Since there's a chance this is going to be the next hour, I'd like to go looking for the highest level. A president if she can't call out why. The members of the board of directors who voted for it from 10:00 this morning to have a meeting until midnight. I don't feel like anything else is going to work out if this case is so urgent that we have to talk about it here until midnight, and then we're gonna be pissed. Councilmen also stand by their actions and by the way they have voted and at least attend the discussion. That's all I ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u468	A respectable president. I'm glad the President declared a meeting until midnight, so we don't have to argue about it. Then we know. If this were the usual workplace, I would have thought we were going to spit on our hands and try to produce as much as we can until midnight, during the remaining hour. There does not seem to be an attitude at this workplace, for here it is about doing nothing, taking time so that there will be no performance until midnight, this hour, continuing to spend it on some chat like a scratched plate and coming up here over and over again under the President's board. Why don't we try to take advantage of this hour in objective discussion, okay? Senators? How about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u469	V.E.G. President. It may be better not to do anything than to do something foolish. I think it's better that we spend some energy on it, and it's an important role if we can stop the violence that's been going on here with the frame plan and the bad payment that's been trying to kick through. V.E.G. President. We have discussed much that there is a need to be another subject. A lot of talk has been made about the collective agreements and about the highest information. Prime Minister will do and will do the highest. Secretary of finance. How sad it is to listen to them when we have a 45 - day strike, 46 days a day, and others on our way to a strike like a nurse! At the same time, people just say, "Well, we're waiting for the public market to come together. " So when they're gone, if they're gonna do something: Yes, we've already volunteered to do something if someone asks for something. It's the board of directors in Iceland today. Maybe the best thing this government does is not do anything. So we can continue our discussion here so that she can continue her idleness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u470	A respectable president. Thank you for explaining to a respectable president how Congress continues here. It is an example of a president to make such declarations about the president's chair and to give us the opportunity to organize our actions. Because of what lays. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson said earlier, it is not fair to have a desire to discuss the matter here. In a real job place where people put emphasis on performance and achievement, they would prepare things better. Then people would take advantage of the time that has come to settle the matter again on a professional committee, where the trouble is up, and go to work properly. What's being done here is that there's been a catch again and again with a pierced note, and everybody knows that it doesn't do anything, even a man like me, who has never been to sea knows that you don't catch anything in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u471	Madam President. I can't remember that any government in recent times has given its people more lax leadership than the one present. The nation looks on in the face of strikes, where tens of thousands of people will put down their work in order to demand more mending and better pay. In the light of history, such disputes have never been resolved by humans without a government in some way involved them. Where is the setting to discuss it if not at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, where the elected representatives of the nation meet? What does the top do. When the government's situation has for days demanded to discuss the more serious situation in society? Yes, day after day, there are many suggestions offered by members of the government side to take these matters on. Why? Because two members of the government have taken the council hostage and demand to achieve their will regarding the fortresses, which in many respects are not fully investigated. If men were to do this in a manner worthy of honor, allowing men to dig in on the doubts, then the matter could be settled here, but there is no desire. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u472	V.E.G. President. I wondered, after my talk here tonight, when we were discussing assignments for Project Three: Is she working? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Has a what? A professional health committee requested that she leave the job now that the committee has resolved matters for her? I think it's something to say because I'm worried that she's not working fast enough. I am one of those who want this committee to finish their mission, and when it is in, we will finish the discussion on these four suggestions that were added. We can take care of Haggis immediately, since it has been taken care of from a project management program. This is the only perfunctory treatment for a framework I can support myself in this situation. Well, I'm just hoping that guys haven't finished with Project Three yet. It's an interesting thing to do if we're expected to speed up our work here and finish our payment and then to get the assignment proposal or to be looked forward to. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't work out. Everyone wants to see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u473	Madam President. Here we continue to discuss this in a very controversial manner. In fact, I had resolved to try to be on a positive note without much regard for what is to be done here, i.e. Accept the proposal from the rest of the section. In the future, there are many good things to find that involve nature protection, and I had thought I would read a little from a text that I would like to think about in the light of the discussion that has taken place here. I'd like to quote an article that Gunnar Hersveinn wrote entitled Wings To Nature, by permission of Presidents: ▪ The quality of life is virtue, emotions, and attitudes that we learn and practice in order to make people better. The values in society strengthen us to make society better. At the same time, we try to suppress the failings, the stupid, the cruelty, and the destructive forces that trigger them. The value of nature is to improve the human relationship with nature, to promote respect and responsibility for it. A person's relationship with nature is at present upset, and the project lies ahead in finding balance and success. But how can this be done? The author of this article then discusses a great deal about ethics, both human and natural, and about defined standards, right or wrong and bad, and a little bit more about how we as human beings are part of it and how we should think in terms of nature as a resource. He says, with President's permission: Since the human creature often boasts of being the only moral being on earth, it is overhistoric in various groups of animals, such ethical behavior as compassion, compassion, respect, responsibility, grief, multiracial, helpful, and self - sacrifice can be identified. Icelands don't plan land use for energy solely for ethical reasons or for responsible reasons but for economic reasons and because of habitat conditions. The problem is, if the cord breaks down with nature and the relationship becomes disoriented, if the human race takes on a high horse and forgets about nature on a map on a drawing board. As in this world, interest and strength often go into improving our economy. We are prone to overestimate the economy and to underestimate the ecosystems. We expect economic growth without end and create a life - style that does not involve nature, as though it is not part of us. We sacrifice ecosystems for global economy because it seems to be suitable for us for a while. The natural habitat in the fully new Iceland is now crossing between the energy generation and the waiting class and the protection party. We group, play ball, reach territory, or use it without respect and kindness. We're gonna say, "We've got you." We've got you. We got you - for now! You don't deserve it, but it works for us now, you were on the death list, but we caught you. We're gonna bother you with Urrafs, and we're gonna take you off Clank's life list - you're not gonna exist - unless you're under our control. These sentences sound strange, but the situation is even worse. In the United States alone, less than ninety areas are called activation options, which may then be disturbed and used to produce energy. Nature is exposed on the table of drawings and should be disturbed - or not, areas that were of a protective group move unexpectedly to local and even national parks - depending on quirks and market agreements. ▪ Iceland's heart, or heart, is one of the largest areas in Europe, south of the Arctic Circle, which has never been studied by humans. The special status of the region consists of unique nature, vegetation, geology, and agriculture, the unique interaction between fire and ice, the incomparable contrasts in landscapes and the vast masses that are believed to be among the last continents of Europe. (Land Protection). Still, there is strong likelihood that serious irreversible accidents will be brought about by unfavourable appeal to the value of Icelandic nature. For this reason, human beings need to be developed and strengthened. ▪ Keep people's contact with the land, knowledge and cooperation of the people with increased public rights, as Guðmundur Páll Ólafsson put it, to preserve the beauty of diversity in Iceland's nature and lakes. (The Earth in Iceland's Nature) Let's always expect a hard fight against natural resources. A respectable president. I now quote this article. I thought it was a nice reading to go through when I've been listening to what I was doing. In order to turn the thought only on the other side, out of the character, and inwardly toward nature. I would also like to point to an article that deals with the resource written by Indriði H. Þorláksson and is found on the Internet, which is worth reading, which is about how much industry earns. There's been a lot of law reviews here, a memorandum of the Environment and Resource Ministry, and other things that will strengthen our government case that we believe, so I'm going to do a little poetic for the rest because I think it's extremely difficult to stand in this situation and fight behind and neck against the wrath that wants to use and apply it to the red death. This is only one earth, by Ragnarsson: Only one earth. There is no more. All rights reserved The source of life's good things. Only one earth. With her plagues; Frustration by Cruelness, by which poverty comes with destruction and war galloping, The Floods That Struggle in Strained is a storm in the countries. Only one earth. There's a storm about it. Resources Beyond If You Find It only to make money. Only one earth. The fool's feet are scared. The Law of Cruelly Beats and Strikes And he will not be mocked, neither will he be mocked: If you die on Earth, she'll kill you and dying you will bleed. Only One Earth Yet all shall be food and clothing If by her will the guard, Protect her and her life harden,-- Love for this one earth,-- There is no more. This may be what breaks in my heart and other senators who have stood here for many days, and we want to put forth great effort to protect nature because it cannot speak for itself. It is our job to do so, and to do so, we also use it. The General's public address. It is also worth remembering that there is no nation in the world I think that produces as much electricity as I do in Iceland, so you ask yourself, " What is the need? ' We have repeatedly asked motionmakers what is needed so much that those benefits already in a novelty class are not enough. What's the hurry? What's so urgent that whatever we think of politics has to be overlooked? We're not all in favor of accepting Aggressive Syndrome, but we're being ludicrous. That's what matters. In the left green we would surely have been able to do things differently, but we do not choose to submit to the process and the part of it, whether we support the results or not, that is just our political decision, but we do not choose the task management, the first or the second or the third, which now operates and decides something else. Different interpretations have been made, not in force, but in different ways. Project governments have a temporary obligation, the current and the highest duties. The government should be taken into consideration has not yet been returned, so I ask again, " What is the hurry? ' What are some factors that require that we now engage?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u474	Mr. President. I've been asking senators today what they thought about the arrangement, provided the natural development of framework and good legislation regarding long-term policy development when it comes to energy, efficiency or protection, if they already had the right that a smaller section of the nation could be called after a national agreement on a case that the Allied Council would have approved, as it holds before the council today, and the nation would accept the activation option, provided that the nation had passed through this professional process. Bigtime. A senator subject himself to the majority will, and the true majority will be more of the population, on the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u475	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Like what? I have talked a great deal about the democracy and the growth in the country, and we discussed it in the last term on the Constitution, as it were. A senator knows very well. Of course, the nation's arrival can be a variety of ways, through its votes and other occasions, as we have known, for example. ... abouttherealrealwork. I have said it just like this: " When it comes to a vote for me as a senator, if the people would make a decision after a routine, and there would be a certain conclusion, that they could be a part of the nation's opinion. Of course, it's my democracy and my will. The fact that the people give me some conclusion does not mean that I have to agree with them as a fortunate senator because I am only part of it, but, of course, I would take it into account. After a professional career, this arrangement would be for the people, it would be the best thing to do that we all have our voting rights. [[The president calls.]] My right to vote would then be to participate in the democratic approach to national law and then to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u476	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, president of the left green, spoke of them in the left, called for national law on Chlamyn Healing. I also ask that in view of the systematic problem of speech, which is totally independent of who is in the lesser part. There is an argument over the program, the major part is actually 100% in power, and the only way to influence the memory part of the program is to use a file code. What effect does the senator feel that it would have, if, on the other hand, a smaller part of the council, perhaps a third of the council members, could refer the case to national pay, as it is in Denmark, and, on the other hand, if the nation itself had a legal case, so that when the General Assembly had approved some matter, the defence or security valve would be in their hands and perhaps a smaller portion, perhaps 10% of the voters, could refer to a case approved by the council or to the whole nation in a national fee? How does the senator feel that such action would affect the conference and the debate, reconciliation, and long - term policy barrier?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u477	Mr. President. I think that as much as the council is good, to make up my share in this case, which would have increased power towards the greater part. I don't know what the proportions should be, and I'm not going to take a direct view of them, but all in any way I think is good and should be able to make this work better. I think that's my conclusion, based on the question raised, whether the nation had this right or less part of the council because we need more discipline, we need to adjust the council. How best it will be is that we have not come together. We left greens had other suggestions during our last term. We were alone with them, so, of course, we had a smaller share, and we accepted it. So today's creations are not exactly what we want. [[The president calls.]] But I think the increased density and maintenance of the council are of the good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u478	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech and poetry are excellent. I wanted to--yes, to get more poems from the oar. A senator? [[Up front.]] Maybe there'll be a better time. I'd like to ask, because of what. A senator comes from a district that is one of the largest and most recent activations of the people of the country, the Kärnælna, which was given a special and independent case here at the council, and the people had in front of them what that energy was supposed to do. Has a what? A senator detects in the discussion that has been conducted here as to the timing of the initiatives set out here; in what order should they be won, what is the need, where to energy? Is that not an essential basis for making decisions? [[The president calls.]] Or it's the same with him. A senator came and me, that I haven't received that information? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u479	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, that's one of the things we're going to face, that's exactly what we're going to do with this energy. Why the hurry? Why is it that what is already being used is not good enough? Because I know why. A senator, one of those who make this suggestion, is going to answer me, it would be nice if he just reasoned: "Where are these powers going? What are the projects? I'm sorry, but making decisions here about something you don't see the need for. It is very sad, especially when you are deeply concerned that not all research and other necessary activities are needed to make such a decision. Something's wrong with doing it. That's why we're making this decision. That's why I need to know. I haven't found the administrative body that made this suggestion wanting to answer that. At least that's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u480	A respectable president. The song that comes to my mind when I listen to this discussion and attend it because of it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson wished for it, perhaps one of the best poems is Storm frá Þorsteinn Hamar, which is like this, if I remember correctly: A storm as threads in the forest A Thorny Way a cool storm and a sound of slander My love, sleep, if anything happens I'm here armed. Many are weather. and strange. [[Take it up: Bravo.]] You're welcome, boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. The final question I would like to ask. There's been a senator. Where are we going from here? What happens to a frame plan if this becomes a reality? What will the next government do? Suppose there would be a government that I had. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir would be involved, filled with primament ideas, in which, in the strength of his mind, people would just be able to fill up their projects and put enough into a protection party? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u481	Mr. President. Thank you for the senator's poetry transfer. There are some of us here who I know enjoys such things very much. What will happen to a frame plan based on who is in charge? You see, that's the thing. I think we've made a clear answer to that, the government opposition, when we've been in a pit and given our case, whether we've tried to explain our position through the President's conference board or in speeches. I'm sure we would, if we wanted to, go on the political process, put as much protection as possible, both myself and I. A senator I asked. But I think we're both in such a way that we respect the process we agreed on here during the last term, i.e. The basic strategy, which will therefore be carried out in the grass if we feel that this is the case with us or the suggestions that come from there. Once the professional food is through, since those who know us better and are willing to do so have already made a decision, we will submit to it, but we will not do it as we please them and when we do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u482	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for a great show in the past. By saying that we give the rules of democracy, as it is in the Congress laws, it is possible for the members of Congress to discuss twice all the issues presented to the council in the form of a synonym. Therefore, it is nothing but defamation of democracy at the moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is extorting the council to comment on the change proposals multiplied by the size of the original proposal. It is the members of the board, including the former president of the Iceland police union, to shame the authorities in taking part in this violence, since there is nothing else. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir: How does she feel about this? How does it reflect respect for the council itself in this way the rules of rules to be assured by the democracy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u483	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the answer. Maybe that's why we're standing here at 6:30 p.m. and protesting what we believe is violence. We're protesting detoxification of democracy, like a what? One senator put it this way. As noted here many times, almost new suggestions are presented in a subsequent discussion. Of course, there is no more than violence. It is not a bad word to use in this context. Respect for both the council and the rules we're supposed to follow, and we thought we'd made an acceptable peace with them. If it's not respected now, what's next? That's the first thing you can think of. What will be on our table next?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u484	Mr. President. Let us, though, be at ease. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson took what? paritaprevir Páll J. Pálsson, a chief, and turn him off in this matter, but what do you think? A senator's opinion that this is the case with the members of the Parliament? They are made to participate, not in humiliation alone, but in two of the highest. Minister of the Party. There are reports that two Prime Ministers disagree with this adjustment. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister said that he preferred to see the original proposal of the predecessor. What do you think? A senator for mentality. The senators of the Parliament to give their voices. paritaprevir Jón the son of Gunnarsson oppressed himself in this way to despise his own ministers and never rise up, not one, to defend them when they are bent into the field? It's not what. A senator a little surprised at this mess?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u485	A respectable president. I'm not going to express myself specifically about the spirit of candidates; each one stands by his own, as they say. I don't think the candidates are bent by Jón Gunnarsson. They make that decision for themselves, though. Councilmen, to support this case, not their ministers. That is in the decision presented here by a greater part of the employment committee, which both ministers have expressed themselves to, first the person who proposed the original proposal and then the highest. Environment minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir who came and told her what to do, i.e. To make the original motion stand, that it would be her wish for the project management to complete. Of course, candidates must make it up to themselves not to support two of their stewards, but we will also see in the vote whether the Ministers are superior to themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u486	A respectable president. Last night was book night, and now it's poetry night. Not boring, there are always some positive points to these matters. Thank you. A senator's speech, but wily. A member of the Parliament became a subject of respect for a structured program and a professional process. I ask, "Why should I follow a frame plan now rather than last time? " The head of the left green, in his speech here tonight, admitted that following the completion of a professional process on the 2nd stipulation, a decision has been made based on political views and six benefits, depending on the professional evaluation. [[The president calls.]] I'd like a guess. A senator's respect for that professional work was then respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u487	I thank the senator for the answer. He chooses to understand things in his own way, and it's okay for him to do so. It is not true that the professional process has been violated and political decisions have been made. The decisions were taken, as explained here repeatedly, when new information was received. I would've liked to see what it was. Rather than taking advantage of old information on the subject, a senator takes advantage of new information. He has often quoted older information but has chosen not to make use of the new ones. I can assure you what. The senator that the head of the left green wasn't to admit tonight that political decisions had been made on this. I think he needs to listen to the answer again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u488	A respectable president. I sat here listening tonight so I know all about it, what. A senator can listen to it. Hv. A senator asks: "Where do you need energy? I'm just saying, "What's the big problem?" Senator? Does it make it normal for us to have melted, fish - teeming, and not having electricity to swallow these melts? We need to import oil and burn with all its pollution. There's a lot of demand for energy, we can't have another demand. There's a call at a data station. It is a very interesting industry that makes well - paying jobs. So there is a demand. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we use green energy to use the sea resources instead?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u489	Mr. President. Where's the power? I've asked you why. Senator: The benefits in use aren't enough? Can we fix something within the country, we need to re-activate more? Is there enough energy in the system? [[Up front.]] We don't have to take this conversation. Senator, about flamethrowers. Sadly, that was against our will, such as the rest of our life. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall came in earlier. If we were in charge, things were done differently. If we follow professional judgements, we'll follow up on professional judgements and the process. There's a call at a data station. Because the chairman of the budget board is here, it has been noted that we have now felt lack of data. [[Up front.]] There are no applications, that is not interested, that has not been identified. It has been called for, and this may be true of him as a member of the advance party. I'm saying, have you sold the energy yet? Senator? Can we make use of the benefits we already enjoy? Do we need more? You haven't answered that yet, have you? A senator, rather than anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u490	A respectable president. As noted earlier this evening, the meeting is not intended to continue until midnight, and there have been arrangements that have been made accordingly. I see the clock's 20 minutes to 12 or so and the next round. A senator will not then be able to give his speech and receive an answer in one form, as that process takes about half an hour. So I was going to make sure the meeting was over, a respectable president, and get confirmation of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u491	A respectable president. I'm next to the speaker's file, but if it happens, I'll finish the speech and from midnight up and say again I'd reach ahead of it. While you have, of course, gathered poetry to include in your talk, I would rather like to be able to give them and my talk in the light of day if you can humbly share that request with a respectable president. Of course, if a decision is made, you will not hesitate to speak into the night, but you will respect it. But I think it's generally a good rule to discuss a matter in daylight, and there's nothing in this matter that requires you to spend the night discussing it. I would therefore consider it desirable to complete this meeting now, and they would come back here again in the morning and meet up with Koreans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u492	V.E.G. President. Since I was on the President's chair before and before. The members of Congress asked for information on when a meeting might be completed, I decided as president to grant that request and answer that it would be at midnight. As a result, I believe that if anything happens. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall is willing to give his speech, come to the Hall of Congress, would be the best thing he could do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u493	Mr. President. It's true that their president is on a chair, then. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice, said that a meeting would continue until midnight. It has often been so that as the time period established by the president has already approached, and nothing unusual about it, it shows that it is not yet possible to give a speech and answer a question, then the president has stopped. No one's bowing in the grass with it, it often wants to happen, so there are more or fewer speeches, etc. It is clear that the next senator has 10 minutes. It's now 16 minutes to 12, and it's clear that while we're no more talking at the President's conference board, the talk's over and it's overhv. þm. Is Gunnar's daughter chosen to say that no one would respond? [[And the longer you talk about meeting management...]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Is that what it is? A senator is saying?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u494	As long as he lives, he learns.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u495	A respectable president. The president of the General Assembly decided by the President. Senators who express themselves from the chair do not do so as general presidents. There may be a great deal of it if in my memory, the president said earlier at the meeting that a meeting lasted no longer than midnight. It is important that the words the president makes about the program of the president's meeting hold that people will take their own steps accordingly. I see that the Directorates of Business Committees have already left the meeting because it is clear that they did not consider the discussion to be held - not all members of the commission, but members of Congress there. So I think it's only natural to maintain the custom of not starting a new speech if it's not time to answer for scheduled meeting hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u496	The President's request is to have a meeting until midnight, and the senator's attention that the clock is still short 15 minutes to or so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u497	A respectable president. I don't think it's a big deal. However, I want to know that when I came here, I didn't think I would deliver my speech tonight, had somehow received the information that a meeting would be postponed before it happened. I got that information, not by the President, but from the house before I showed up. I think it's very important that we follow what has been decided on the Presidency in the past night, that we can assume that it will stand. But I'm not gonna make it any big deal whether I'm giving my speech tonight or tomorrow morning. I'm an old broadcaster, and in that line of business, there are times when the clock is ten minutes short to twelve. I'd rather give my speech when more people are in front of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u498	Mr. President. That's a very noble thing to do. A senator to say that he does not make a matter of whether he will give his speech when most are asleep, honest, and Christian people are going to sleep, or at Šprime time. I believe, however, that it is relevant for this council to have a man in his own proper order. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall. He's got a lot more than the rest of us. There is likely no other senator who has that knowledge and experience in the central highlands. A senator, and I'd like to enjoy it. I'd like to hear a talk or two. A senator, in fact, claims that I am always the best at night, but I would like that speech to be given when the members of the management team are here and can listen to it. They benefit from listening, and especially with good reason. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, is good about listening to it, and other members of the Independence Party, most of whom are not here at the Assembly Hall. That's my attitude, Mr. President, I'm not saying she should make the decision, but I'd love to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u499	A respectable president. In my best interest, I don't think I've been betraying trust. paritaprevir By giving my speech and by making an answer to me, Gunnar's Gunnarsdóttir made a choice. All I pointed out was that time was not sufficient to receive speech and full answers that are not unnatural and that we have been repeated in a chamber with any president on a chair, who has made a good name when it is clear that the matter is not yet fully understood. I think it's mainly the situation we're in right now, not that we've had a bad share of the trust that she thinks she has shown us by giving us when the scheduled meeting is scheduled for tonight. I am grateful to her for giving it up to us. A respectable president. It is now time that we do not enter the night of a new talk. I agree with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's bugner I think it's good to have a well-management hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u500	Mr. President. That's right, it's the routine you've learned, and the senators may tell me if it hasn't been that way during the terms ahead, at least with the president who's been sitting the longest, if you can't start a speech and answer without reviewing the time the president has said he's about to complete a meeting. It's quite clear what that time was, it wasn't longer than midnight. I went out more than an hour ago and told them, and many of them are gone, so I think it's a good idea to finish that meeting. We can't go into this now, there's eight minutes in that time when it's 12 o'clock and if it's not to be held, as the president said, until midnight the speaker can't finish his talk. Why don't we just follow that custom?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u501	V.E.G. President. It doesn't take a secret brain to see through this pattern and what it's done with it. We don't have to do that. It's called time, and it's going to the President's conference board. Here, for example, I have been waiting to listen to a talk. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, who I know, has a lot of good things to say, as many people do. Senators today who I have listened to with interest. I sincerely hope that we will be able to listen to a talk. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u502	V.E.G. President. I'd like to first say that I don't make any comments about going on in here and into the night, like cot. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall declared himself ready. In case of a moment. A senator is still on the same team as he was on earlier tonight when he gave us a poem so artisticly, will be a great blow to the end of the night of his speech, if I get the sense of it. A president would be the last speech. At the same time, I'd like to agree with what. A senator, like a dog. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson drew attention to, has an enormous experience in the Middle East, and we are well - respected members of the council, the majority of the council members are truly willing to listen to their speech. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u503	Mr. President. I must express great disappointment in speeches. The senators of the forward party. I'm a bit of a jerk. I admit it, though I have no excessive self-esteem, I sometimes feel that I am able to maintain good talks, but there has never been such a demand for them, as at this moment, a crash by the wind. Councilmen of the forward party against Róbert Marshall. What shall I pay? [[Up front.]] If you don't have your own ego, you don't have anything. It's just the way it is. So I just want to say in the utmost of my heart that when I put my head on the pillow tonight I would have at least How much happier it would have been if there had ever been a profit from these wishes to me! I'll just have to bite my sour apple and go to bed later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u504	Mr. President. Of course it's a filibuster. No one has to wear it. They've already said, "We're going to keep doing this." So, of course, it's just the game that's always the game. Paint. This is a systematic problem that could be solved by bringing the people into their hands the lawsuit. Now they're working on what's great, great stuff. Then all this nonsense that we are facing right now will be dangerous for a council, and we can start working like people and working on long - term dating like people. But the situation is now, so it's four minutes before it's 12. The president of the United States declared that a meeting would last no longer than to 12. I can't believe we're taking a few more spins, four or so, aren't you excited to look up here in the President's conference board? Or maybe the president will end this for a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u505	V.E.G. President. I am one of the senators who has been eager to listen to Róbert Marshallur's speech, but do not belittle my excitement if not more excited to listen to other talks that have been announced in this discussion, hoping that a discussion will be held. They will not go on into the night I hear, but tomorrow. It will be interesting to have a word with members of Congress. I also get a bit sour when it comes to declaring that those members of the Independence Party who are not important enough to give a little speech. But I'm going to finish my speech in Gunnarsloma: A vacation over the sun's land on summer roads and silver blue Eyjamatin The golden flame was embalmed late in the day. On the east is the great image Over the country, and over the head bright coolness; In a comely fountain of beauty Shall I finish? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u506	V.E.G. President. So far, I haven't had anything to say to the President's conference board, but now I'm making a comment. Now I think why. Össur Skarphéðinsson's senator has abused this team for the President's conference board. All I am willing to help him strengthen his self - image, encourage him to do good works, and give good talks, but this doesn't seem to me the right setting. But I'd love to listen to him, and we can go out here and talk about his business and help him straighten out a tight self - image if necessary. I'm more than ready to do that, and I'd like to hear more good and objective talks tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-21-110.u507	A respectable president. What I would like to say first in my second speech on the subject discussed here recently in terms of the decision made by the President of the Generalis about the legitimate debate this evening and the last days. I've been in this decision for the last two weeks, and I'll always be more sure that I haven't seen anything as weak as the language of the highest. A president who concludes that he seems to be evidence further suggests that a professional assessment of the priming options proposed to become a colony of a greater part of the workforce. What makes a special disappointment in reading the verdict and compared to the two decisions that have come from each Ministry, which have come to the conclusion in contrast to the president that the legal rights of any of the changes presented here are not at the highest decision. The two opinions of a president differ. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. A president that he has read and studied this opinion, but he does not answer the argument and rather act as if it does not exist. I'd also like to cut off the council's treatment only on the motion of the local officer. Industrial Minister during the last terms because this procedure is often compared with the treatments that are being introduced today. As to this, I'd like to say that a good description is contained in a committee study more than a part of the employment committee on the scenario. In most respects, it is completely accurate. True, it is a false fact error when it is claimed that the project government has named 16 benefits in a novelty class. It's not like that, they were 22. It may be concluded that more than a part of the professional committee considered that there are now only 10 benefits, but that is not, they are 16. The results were confused in the commission. However, events are well described. Among its statements, it was in accordance with the provisional regulations of the law, i.e. the advertised deadline carried out by a minister in that case was in accordance with the law. It is clearly stated in the committee's opinion. If the current larger things had wanted to have done the same way, he would have had to do it in the same way that the law was built, but it is not. That is very convincing of those who made this suggestion, formerly at the highest level. Environment Minister, who thinks he is bound by the proposals of the project. If you carefully examine the law, you will see that more than a part of the job committee has lent it in mind to see if it would be possible for members of Congress to offer additional advantages. Despite the obvious challenges of such a case, we have one task option that has been carried out by a long history of the task management, which included the conferences on these languages and mountains, and we rurals in which the Ministry is expected to be considered and sought after the work and assessment of experts, that there are special professions to be arranged for 12 weeks' review procedures, that the matter goes to the Ministry to the government, and then go into the administrations, from the management parties to previous conferences and then to the Commission. It's just one option. If it is legitimate to add three or four options, it is entirely absurd and incredibly weak, unconcerned, and unprofessional to take three activation options and not to give up all this treatment. It doesn't hold any conclusions. This key problem in the matter makes the cause of those who make these adjustments as weak as they really are. Therefore, the physical logic of the major part of the case is not sufficient to allow the matter to be met. Sadly, all the discussions that have been conducted in this room have found that the decision was not based on sufficient knowledge. Time and again, it has been exposed that certain activation options have been made into a novelty class, that they had been exported from there. Here, members of the council have come up and considered these suggestions to be a return visit to the committee. Congress officials have even acknowledged that they did not examine certain data that were fundamental to this decision. What a disappointment! We set these laws to ensure that the conclusions for the fortresses were taken in the best possible way and that we would also seek to take the decision process out of this room, take it out of the traditional political parties on these issues that have marked our last decades. I am deeply concerned that the conclusions in this case may lead to the complete destruction of this process, that there will be no respect for what is happening in the next term, that the more part of what will be then - I think is not the same as it is now - will be free of the practice that the law assumes, or at least be able to use some fertile creativity to achieve their wishes and political hopes and desires in these matters. That, in my opinion, is extremely negative. There is, of course, great benefit to have been made when the original proposals included the introduction of Breslination in Skaftá without any professional assessment of the activation initiative, as well as the fact that it would actually be a major natural disaster for me to attack the dams of Skaftá about a mile above the Lamb's Rings Eve in a very versatile tourist area. It is also assumed in the original motion made in November last from the head of the trade committee that in Hólmsá, at Atley, east of the Myrdal Redundy, on a so - called wavebed route, there would be an attack. It was a big mistake, too, in my opinion, because a professional assessment of the activation has not been finished, and the activation would have become the construction in Iceland that was next to the Katlavingos. What a joy it is to have been seen in that material! How happy we are that when it comes to the activation of Lake Hags! I'm expecting people to see that they're getting more activations. This, of course, shows that this process is not well - founded by scientific and professional knowledge. Rather, it shows that people are playing a political game here, struggling with what they can get away with in these areas. [[The president calls.]] That's very negative.
