ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Speaker of the Independence Party for 2nd. Southk, Ragnheiður E. Árnadóttir'sdo, can't attend a meeting next time. So today, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district's "Geir Jón Þórisson." Geir Jón Þórisson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Economics requesting deadlines to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 1134 of China's warehouse, of Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u3	The president wants to be right about how he understands that a conference can last longer than the council dictates, is needed, to complete the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u4	President wants to draw attention to him. Councilmen assume that at the Generals' Web site, a work group that he appointed last summer to work on the implementation of the campaign legislation has been opened. The team's work is aimed at implementing a more efficient election, more detailed role for the institutions to vote, and a review of the terms of the election which have caused conflict and make others clearer. The work force has been looking for comments and tips from sources involved in election planning and implementing elections and meetings with members of the Parliament who sit at the Council and, in addition, representatives of the ÖSE in the Agency's comment and tips to the election legislation and the implementation of the General elections in 2009 and 2013. In addition to presenting on the website the scope of the revision, public comments and proposals are sought during the revision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u6	Mr. President. I am deeply worried about the situation at work. Today, the latest reports of manipulative events are not survived when HB Granda executives decide to raise their wages, but they have recently offered an invitation to employees in an ice pack. To tell you the truth, it's like getting out of a novel by Halldór Laxness. I wonder where we've come from if this is the cover of the struggle. V.E.G. A prime minister has often had good comments on the importance of looking for ways to increase the lowest wage, but the tone has also been heard from the government that it is not hers to pay for a dress interview. However, the government is actually in the middle of another issue that is now at issue that is divided by BHM, and we are already seeing the consequences of the strike action. They're talking about the safety of patients at the National Hospital being threatened, and we're looking forward to seeing that if a team of people agree to engage in action, they'll start at the end of this month. These measures will have a tremendous impact on the tourism industry, affecting every place in the country if possible. I'm very worried about the situation. It is now news that the organization of industry is expecting governments to bring something out. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is there any such play in preparation? V.E.G. A minister has mentioned that there may be something to become in the area of housing in my previous requests on this matter. What will we see? For example, it is extremely urgent that BHM's actions will not continue and increase, and we see an even greater disorder of national health care services, and it is extremely important that we be introduced in some way so that we also do not see the level of action in the private market. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: What is the hope on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u7	A respectable president. I can agree with anything. A senator said about the job market situation. I share her concerns about that position. There are many things that make it difficult and complex, but there are yet many parishes, and that is not to be forgotten. Also, we should not forget that the reason for this situation is that people now feel that something is involved, that there is something going on. It then seems that worry that a group will be reduced to the dominant level so that it is very important to achieve an agreement, should be able to resolve the situation, to gain trust between groups, to trust that the benefits will be fairly divided. Therefore, we have reason to comment. For example, a senator on how undesirable and, in fact, only entirely unprovable it is when he is at the same time going to a decimal up on the board, not just the particular firm as he is. One senator noted that we have seen examples of such increases in the governments in other lands recently. So I'll ask myself a question. The senator's actions and means of government we have declared that we are willing to put forth many efforts in order to pay for collective agreements. However, the government is not prepared to launch inflation measures if it is concluded that this is a possibility that insurmountable inflation will occur, i.e. We don't want to feed inflation deals. On the other hand, if one sees that what might be called a stable agreement, the government is open to various means, which, of course, would be continued in consultation with the labour market partners. We would not be the first to say: It will be, and nothing else, but rather consult with the labour market partners, and that work is actually already begun. Men have begun to get together and communicate with each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u8	Mr. President. Me and the highest. The prime minister is not concerned, but that is not enough. Is it the intention of the government to wait for contracts to meet before anything gets out? Should we wait for the strikes that occur? Will we allow the action of BHM, where the state is a direct party, to continue in medical institutions? Will we extend the waiting list even more before any play takes place? Of course, it is important to try to maintain prices but aim to simplify the tax system even more like the highest level. The secretary of finance has spoken of, in order to reduce the paced tax system, probably not in favour of those in the lowest stages, are not directly designed to promote or increase the peace of the labour market. I emphasize that there will be good plans to take action in these matters. [[The president calls.]] It is very important to consider those with the lowest income, those below the low income limit, those who cannot live decent lives by day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u9	A respectable president. Of course, the government needs to take care of a country in these discussions before determining which measures will be most effective. In fact, a country needs to be seen so that it can be evaluated for harm and aggravate inflation, as I described before if it is heading for what might be called inflation treaties. Hence, it is necessary to have some idea that an agreement is achieved, and where it is headed, the government's efforts can work best to further the provision and to increase the financial resources of the people of the land. But because of him. A senator mentioned that one of the things that had been considered was a change in taxes or customs, and it didn't work for the lower income groups when I disagree completely. That's what a senator does. V.E.G. For example, a minister of finance has mentioned children's clothing, customs, or taxes. Changes in this area or decrease would benefit primarily the people who have the lowest income because they cannot travel abroad and buy their children's clothes there. [[For example, consider: Tax tax.]] There, too, the cost of shopping is much higher than that of those with a higher income. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u10	A respectable president. I'll be on the same page and have a place of words, or scream and scream in an empty emotion, at the highest. Prime Minister, careful, professional, and employment conditions. I agree with what's happened here. Things are very serious. There are huge demands on higher rates. They are understandable, especially with respect to the lowest wage. The managers of large companies send war gloves into the atmosphere with excessive increases in their own resources. We're watching a little bit of old time, we're watching a job market where there's a lot of war and people may not be looking at the long - term global interests. This may be because there is great anger in the community and widespread suspicion. I think so, at least In part, be a rebuke to the government. I watch that 1990 was made the so - called national contracts. They were one of the biggest successes in the baloney, if not the largest, in this community. Since then, the same thought, national idea, has been in charge of collective agreements. The labour market members and the government have put together one thing in the mind of ensuring long - term stability and financial growth. My question to the highest. The prime minister is simply this: Aren't we just looking at the market where the idea of a national agreement is dead? That's a lot of concern, isn't it? And is it not simply cold food and needn't deal with it? And how?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u11	A respectable president. If I make the right ideas about what's wrong. A senator is referring to the thought of a nation, and I cannot say that it is dead at all. It is especially important now when people see an opportunity to continue to increase the level of money, but it is hanging by the survival of the righteous exchange of economic gains that have been forming in the community in recent times. Therefore, we especially need our national thinking now. In fact, I believe that the interests of humans to reach or take such a thinking are the great thing that we must assume that it will be possible to get along. So the answer is clear: No, the idea of the nation's heart is not dead and must not be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u12	A respectable president. I'd say she wasn't supposed to be dead, but it seems to me that she's dead. The national groups at one time came to realize that for years before, the government and the team of the labour market had agreed. Everyone left behind, the government in interest of remuneration, the labor people left behind in terms of trade and employment drivers in other places. They got together in this a long time. Then I'd like to ask: If the national idea is not dead, what has the government done to try to achieve this agreement in a labour market? What are we going to do? For example, are the insurance fees that are extremely high after a difficult time? For example, it would help employers to increase their salary. What is the occasion, and what has the government done? There is a lack of meat in the country because of a workforce situation. [[The president calls.]] If there is anything about the advance party, it should at least provide meat for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u13	A respectable president. I have to answer that. A senator, just as I replied. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter earlier. Government attendance must be a matter of how the situation develops between the labour market partners. Don't forget, there are those who are making a deal. Government attendance is primarily to enable them to get along better. We are truly willing to do so, but then we need to see that there will be a agreement that there will be an amazing opportunity for people to continue to make money. If this was to be resolved in a way that inflation would be completely out of control, there would be no use for governments to improve that. So I'll answer the other question. A senator's discussion has been quite a few times over the years. The representatives of the government and other government representatives have met the labour market parties in order to monitor the progress and to see how the government's approach can best be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u14	President. I'd like to invite the highest. The prime minister welcomes in the house and congratulates him on a fine vote at the advance convention. I wanted to refer to an article published in the hour, by President's permission: The research reports that Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson referred to in his speech at the convention of the candidates are a newsletter that is regularly received by many demands by the Einar Karl Haraldsson of the Public Mount and Counsel on Glitnis. The statement that the Agency does not want any Icelandic interests is made from such a letter, according to a DV business editor's report. [...] However, the editor's writings do not reveal that the words that Sigmundur read are quoted by a news writer in a fistula by Ásmundur Einar Daðason, a senator and assistant minister who appeared earlier this year. Einar Karl pointed out this in his latest newsletter to the dissociation of Glitnis [...]. In the case of Björn Ingi, the son of Hrafnsson, with Sigmundur Davíð in the part of the island [...], Sigmundur was asked specifically of a controversial quote. The prime minister then made it clear that this was not a witness for the approval of the candidates themselves. Rather, it was the assessment of these individuals, who are offered to map and analyze politics. ▪ We know that representatives of the demanding crew have taken up personal information about politicians, journalists, and others who have expressed themselves on these issues or who are likely to be able to influence matters or to influence matters, in the first place, said Sigmundur in their speech, adding that in some cases psychological analysis has been made on people to figure out the best way to deal with them. In view of one of these, it's just a newsletter from an assistant but it's obvious that something is being cited, I'd like to ask the highest level. Minister, if he has a wide variety of classified reports, if he does not feel a basis for giving them a proper panel for observation and coverage. There are three members of Congress that are considered very important, but I believe that if there are such reports, psychoanalysis and diplomas of members and others, the council will get them into an appropriate process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u15	A respectable president. I think it would be most desirable for a Parliamentary committee and, indeed, most people to study the contents of these reports. Although some of them are clearly marked ◯confidential, I think they are relevant to members of the council who are evaluating these issues and with what they are dealing with, so I think it is desirable to be eliminated from these data. There shouldn't be much problem, too, like cot. A senator mentioned earlier, those who have handled the extracurricular affairs of these matters are well - known and slow to look for the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u16	President. Now I don't quite understand the answer from the highest. Prime Minister. Then I'll go see what. paritaprevir Is it Ásmundur that Daðason's son's appeal to get these data because he has, in part, been involved in misunderstandings about who suffered the most from these worn - out governments? I'd like to ask the highest. Since he has seen these reports and has had access to them, would it not be the most simple if the Ministry of Presidency were to bring these secret reports to relevant committees at the council or to the prime committee? Or is something that stands in the way of that, chief. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u17	A respectable president. I'd think there were some of them at least who have written these reports, that they themselves are asked to deliver the reports, are focused on handing out their reports. [[Up front.]] If they are not willing to do so for some reason, we can try to look for other ways that the council can handle these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u18	A respectable president. Great protests about execution were made by the prime minister. Friday. A lot of good things happened there. What I find incomprehensible about this statement, however, was why the prime minister wants to make a disagreement on this matter, for we in the political state have been largely going along in this ideal period. Today, for example, we do not debate whether it was right for us as good as left - green to put swelling under the goats, even though an exodus and an independent group did not trust to support it in 2012. There is also the fact that the current work is being done on the work being done during the last term of the case. We have finally boarded the same boat and have agreed to go as far as possible to protect Icelandic interests. We as officers would like to cooperate with the government on this matter so that we may proceed. We just need information, and the council needs to get together quickly so that all of this works out eventually. One important aspect of this matter is the protection of homes from the effects of falling into the habit. It has been warned that in the wake of decommissionment, inflation can fly high, with serious consequences for the homes of the country, their loans, and all prices, e.g. The need. This has been shown in the discussions that there is a strong struggle for work. Even if we were allowed to discuss this more than has been done so far, we have not missed anyone here at the council. It is important that so far, the larger groups that this government has left behind receive a clear signal that they will be protected in this operation. A respectable president. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether or not it is being prepared to protect our homes from decommissionment. For example, would it be possible that one part of such procedure would be removing the index number, since there is no plan to cancel the insurance policy during this terms, what is repeated?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u19	Mr. President. First, only with regard to the groups said to have been left behind. Recent calculations have shown that those who have enjoyed most of the money increase are the most efficient groups. I expect that. A senator is not calling for special measures for the highest income groups. Only with regard to the oceans and the discussion, we have had this meeting of the political parties, and I have hoped that, as he has done so far and partly during his final term, it will be useful to share information that may be unfortunate for us to be entering the chamber of Congress. Perhaps the last government's problem with therapy was, in particular, that the classes of that government had a far different view of our ability to escape from oceans. One group thought it practical and possible to do it in the Icelandic kroner as a base, the other group described it repeatedly here that it could not be done without cooperating with other European countries in the currency union. In a speech or two. I felt that this was really possible without walking in the European Union and taking up Euro, which is in my mind positive news. Then there are others who agree that this is really possible. The task, in effect, is to disarm the bomb, free of the tensions of uncertainty that result from the stretchers and the fact that even though they had now had seven years, they have not completed a commitment agreement and have come up with practical ideas that can be approved in the Secret Bank on passage and payment to demands. We are far along with this work. I am optimistic, as Prime Minister, that this year we can take action that will be key measures to solve the oceans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u20	A respectable president. This government has not answered the question of what is to happen after its departure. However, this was done by the last government by launching an analysis to see if the European Union was something that the nation would approve of in national terms, and that would be the answer to what was to be done. We haven't heard from this government what money policy we're going to be running when men are finished cutting the head. That's what's at the top. The minister did not answer my question about how this government is going to protect this country's home from falling on the crown's gang because it will meet the worst people now in strike operations, fighting for its better terms, and trying to reach the ears of this government that do not seem to hear what is being called upon. These groups need clear answers to what this government is going to do to protect them from the consequences of what will be eliminated. [[The president calls.]] I would like the answer to the question of unmounting the index or performing any other direct procedure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u21	Mr. President. It's the core, that's the basis for all the work involved in the waste of the risks of scraps and snow hangers. It's the core. That's why it's taken so long. That's the answer. The answer is that we are not going to go to any practice that leads to the fall of the cow's gang. That's the answer. In addition, the answer lies in the economic activities already implemented by the government, e.g. with the long-term budget of the budget now available for the council. We have achieved stability, a real resistance to the government's finances, and thus provide ideal circumstances to free our oceans, free of external risk factors. The answer is as good as ever. A senator then pointed out that the last government had had no answer, of course. What would the Conspiracy do after the nation's agreement with the European Union? There was just no answer. Then it was to be the nation's fault. [[Up front.]] Left greens spent the entire time in the government work on the basis that they could do so with the crown that was right next to green. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It was right in the left green that this can be done with the Icelandic crown. The forwarding party and the Independence Party and other groups here who are willing to support the way we are working. [[The president calls.]] Now is the question: Does the United States believe that this can be done with the Icelandic crown, or do you want to have suffered until we have entered the European Union - which will never be? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u22	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u23	A respectable president. I'm happy if there's finally a deal or a law to fix the swelling camps. It is the nation's largest economic interest and later hope that we will see the suggestions here at the council and that it is important to have a good concern for them. We all agree that in those contracts or in that taxation, there will be hundreds of billions of allowances for the Icelandic national community. I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister for making room for that arrangement. I think it was declared on the part of the prime minister that there should be room for home use. Now it seems to me that if they don't make a deal, they're not taking the money that gets caught in the contracts with swellings, or if they don't want to make a deal, they're taxing it and deposit on an account in the Secret Bank. There is something else to post them into an account in the Secret Bank, using them only to prevent an increase in the amount of money in traffic or to use them in the interest of the homes. This is clearly seen, among other things, because of the difficult situation in the pool, that money is needed for profit. Still, I do not think prime minister will find that he or she is in debt enough and in many areas of well - being services is in dire need of money. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is the amount of space we manage to create with the swellingers to place money in the Secret Bank to prevent the rise in the amount of money in traffic? Or should the space for the homes be used, as I recall that he spoke about before elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u24	A respectable president. The country's special interests, the people, the public in Iceland, are not too high on money and inflation does not get out of control. This helps to protect a person's choice, thus preventing insured loans from rising, which can continue to increase the cost and so on. Surely, then, it is not possible to say that in some way it is contrary to keeping money from increasing and inflation low and defending the status of the households. It goes completely together, and it's actually the same thing. A respectable president. It is also important to remember that the government's potential for providing all the services that need to be served, and the citizens make normal demands, depends here on maintaining the economic stability and status of the state funds allowing us to maintain the health services we want to see in Iceland, that we have the necessary transport benefits, that quality education in this country, etc. All of this remains in hand, and all of this is to ensure the position of the public, the status of the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u25	A respectable president. On April 10, 2013, at the Forstower, Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, said that he was responsible for the use of space for the homes of the country. I feel that this may not be an entirely satisfactory explanation for the purpose of that declaration. Leave it alone. However, I would like to ask about the other important things for homes at this point, and there is concern that in the case of inflation will be associated with these measures, such as the case. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir spoke here at the highest. Secretary of finance earlier, and whether it is really intended to leave the price bail in terms of decommission. I ask if we would agree that it was a mistake after the crash not to remove insurance loans and whether it is not an essential requirement for going into this process, on the part of the highest level. Prime Minister, that prices are frozen or removed while this high risk is taken in the nation's economic affairs to secure the country's homes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u26	A respectable president. First, I want to welcome the momentous breakthroughs that were already here. Group president of the United States declares that it was a mistake not to disable the financial security resulting from the collapse. That was a very expensive mistake, and the consequences are still being dealt with, but they have been dealt with by an enormous operation, which was correction of prices - assured mortgage loans. The promises made on TV, as a matter of course. So a senator referred to, has either come true, or is being fulfilled, though some, especially of his group, have had so much doubts in their time. In terms of the question of whether or not a special operation together with delinquency or decommission is required to protect the public from rising prices, that's exactly what they're doing as I described in the previous answer. This is especially so when the public is protected from rising prices in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u27	A respectable president. It is safe to say that the arrival of the mackerel in Iceland had a very positive effect, that it was like a fixed lottery power for us, a rescue ring in trying times when these valuable fish began to walk with great force in our jurisdiction, and we started using it a few years ago. In 2010, it was realized that this fishing had to be replaced. At that time, these fish were taken to sea without our having a contract with other nations on this stock. In fact, it is quite extraordinary to listen to the talks delivered yesterday by certain causes. Congress officials who were being highly critical of the intended currency and the means now going on at the fixture of labours in mackerel. It was at the time that we had the opportunity to do things differently. I was asked at that time by the media what I thought should be done. I said there was obviously an opportunity to go somewhere else, where there was a new root out where there was no hunting experience. But it was decided to do so in the way that was done and without any pay. In all this discussion, the then minister spoke of special laws on the mackerel hunts, but she never saw the day, and she would have had to be brought forward if someone had intended to do something else. Now it is critical that the current law should be followed, and recall that there may not be so much respect for law and justice in the last term. The highest recommendations can be cited. the secretary of the environment who was convicted of violating the law was that it was just not important, that its goals were different, above law and right. And that's how people used to talk here yesterday, that they were just over the law and right, and we could do it in some other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u28	What about framework laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u29	I'm not discussing a frame plan here. [[Up front.]] I can talk to you about what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon anytime. I can talk to him at any time about the framework laws and if they are opposed to them with the suggestions of the greater part. We'll have plenty of time for that on the spring day at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u30	There should not be a delay in the removal of an ex - secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u31	These are just the facts I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u32	These are not facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u33	Was judgment in the Supreme Court not fact? Here is clearly a sensitive attitude, and I understand it, especially in the light of yesterday's speech. [[Up front.]] Of course, the law is being carried out, and it is confirmed by the findings of the General agent who appeared to us last year and has now been appealed on the basis of that decision to the State. We'll see its smell. Of course, we have a problem, and I believe this bill has the highest priority. A marine minister is attempting to approach an acceptable solution for the division of business divisions between individual ships and fishing groups. Trying to follow a way of reconciliation is being achieved. Great investments follow the fishing process and the production of these products, such as the rest of the fishing grounds. There are investments in processing and in ships. Of course, these are investments made on the basis of the law that has to be followed. Investment companies have invested very extensively in manufacturing, which includes the implementation of these products. More important, these include North East and East, as well as other lands. We can see that in the miniboat system, the hook market system, the investments in those who live there have become big investments, maybe 10 million investments. K. Plus each boat, they're quite many ready for mackerel fishing. This is done, confident that the law will be followed. Uncertain font for investments and thus for a valuable creation. We have been successful in creating a foundation for a powerful macrol and creating conditions for investments, all in the confidence that governments will live by the legal structure established by the General Assembly. The bill calculates that the distribution is six years old at the same time. Of course, there is a lot of uncertainty about this root, and we can put it to say that it is not at ease. The trend has been relatively rapid, but we have the uncertainty that the situation is worse, we do not know anything about it. All the long - term investments in which to maximise the value of it are thought. It is a big investment for a small boat host and a small boat project to make an investment of perhaps 10 to 12 million million. K., it's a big investment, just as it is a big investment for bigger companies to make billions of investments, ships at perhaps 4 billion dollars, which, in part, is based on fishing from this stock. Whether six years of vision is long enough in this regard can be debated. In general, I don't think so. I think there's a general feeling that it's going to take a long time. A much longer time had been spent with our other crops in a so - called agreement route or the way introduced by the prime minister of the sea, 2013, I think it was, and in this way it was accepted that in the working environment of those who decide to invest in this article, the necessity must be quite substantial. There was a talk about the payoff. Here we go. People up to last night who claimed that this was another trip to a so - called shower of presents, and they mentioned the sums of money to be given to some authority of up to 150 billion, 150 thousand million million. K. I'll agree with the highest. A sea leader when he encourages people to support such statistics, to show the calculations that prove that such a currency is in some practical way. It is a great responsibility for us generals when we discuss the main jobs in Iceland, and it is a minimum duty for us not to lay down the right ground, to keep us on the facts. And if we make such dramatic statements, we do so in a logical way, there must be something behind it other than speculations and general debates that have not been explained in a professional assessment. It is being suggested that for this distribution a special extra charge will be paid at 10 k. a pound. It will bring in a wealth of government during the period of some 9 billion dollars. By current resources. That is a lot of money, especially if we look at it now in connection with the value of the sea, which we may be able to see from the hook - up system, the miniboats, whose opponents have claimed to be the most valuable product in macroil, that they have the freshest materials and the most valuable product. They received last year about 70 k per kilogram, i.e. That this price plus fishing fee will do about 18 bucks. I can agree with yesterday's viewpoint that it's probably not possible to do in that system according to that payment. Going to sea does not pay for sailors, so simple now. Of course, we must arrange for any sense to be in it and to use the natural resource in some sense. So there's something we'll have to look at, we'll have to go through it well, and particularly, considering that today's situation with the mackerel is not exactly what they were last year. Our biggest market for these products has been in Russia. I think I'm right when I say that well over half of all the products are sold to Russia. Today the situation in Russia is as we know it. Some companies, large buyers, have already gone bankrupt. The Icelandic company has already canceled large sums of money for their business with macroil last year. In other words, the number of buyers has decreased very much, and men who are familiar with this figure is totally predictable that we will not achieve the same price for macroil as we did last year, unfortunately. The Norwegian market, our competitor in this matter, is more east of Asia. They have caught the mackerel at a time other than ours, it is more valuable in that way, so they want it in Asia. Thus, it is not so easy to win a new market in the opinion of those who care for them. So I encourage us just to keep our discussion on the subject. There are great interests, and we should have the objective of discussing these things objectively, though we may have different opinions and trying to reach conclusions that will be practical for the article and for the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u34	A respectable president. This is an enormous issue, of great value, of great interest, of large underlying questions about justice and reasonableness. In a short future, we are concerned that we will use the opportunity of the mackerel, in these more recent valuables, although often once caught a mackerel on Iceland's shores, to make only an attempt to create a more just and more efficient distribution of resources, in sala, while we have lived in the fishing business in recent decades. We would want to maximise its profits for the nation and try to maximise the profits of the product for those who are in the fishing business as well. I'd like to have a word about it for what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, now a member of the Independence Party and head of the Professional Association. Are not marketing solutions and competition the best ways to achieve maximum goods for the nation and the target? We wondered, " Is it not much better to sell them for auction instead of sharing these resources? ' I know there are certain legal obstacles, but I know that my methods can be tailored to offer these resources by various means, so the law of the market and the competition of the price on the fishing grounds can be won to the nation, and this allows them to adapt to and achieve the maximum price. [[The president calls.]] That's the best way, isn't it? Why isn't it checked?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u35	A respectable president. The more righteous and more efficient distribution by selling or offering the resources and at the same time maximizing the profits for the nation plus the article? It's all very high goals and goals. But it is not as if these routes were not actually. In fact, when commercial solutions are called in the fishing industry, I would like to say that commercial solutions have been used in the past. That's why we run such a practical seabed, i.e. ... becauseit'smarked. A marine road in Norway is a manufacturing drive. That's the basic difference in water management in Norway and Iceland, it's a manufacturing drive in Norway but it's a market drive in Iceland. It's an open market with every means available today. Me and what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson can decide to go to development tomorrow, we can buy some resources, and we can buy a boat and get on our way. It's all over the market. It's just that way. Then we have a social system that has fallen into existence and thought to deal with specific situations, to promote innovation, and to build up the article in another field. We are not guided by market employers or economics, we have other goals, coastal fishing, rural Europe, in a line line for those who want to use it. Me and Steingrímsson Steingmsson can't buy ourselves a large fishing plant, we buy a small boat, we decide to use ourselves in the country, then calm ourselves with the baboons we used and abroad, and we get 20% in favor of it. There are all these things that are thought of into the system, but basically it's an Icelandic fishing route, which is different from what it is in many other countries. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u36	A respectable president. In fact, reports have shown that the conditions under which the Icelandic sea route is competitive, it competes for international competitiveness, resulting in an acceptable fishing production in Iceland in contrast with other branches. I agree with what. A senator that we should look to this, that it is the very market part of the marine industry that makes a successful return and acceptable decision for society. Let's do it a little further. It's true that we, me and what. Senator, if we had any money, at least I don't have one. But then we need to buy from those who have been assigned from the Kingdom. I say, let's start with the state, sell it from there. And now we have a new source, a new resource, a new value. Well, let's start with that. Let's not trade our quotas to those who can sell it on a free market, but sell it from the state. In order to meet various good - looking views, we can do this so that we stepped it down, for example, we can sell 1/6 now next year, and then 1/6 at the end of the year, until we are fully in the auctioning system, a market solution in the fishing road that returns the maximum. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u37	The president would like to state that there is some kind of timer failure in the Senate symposium, but the president tries to monitor the timeliness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u38	A respectable president. If we want to get ready, we need to buy from the available ones. That is correct. This has been true since 1991 when the deed was legalized. [[Up front.]] Likely, it was one of the most successful steps we have ever taken in Icelandic fishing grounds, with a more efficient economy. In this way, 95% of the country's sources have changed their hands, so almost everyone has already bought. [[Up front.]] Now we're starting with a new stock and that's a valid law in the country. I thought why. A senator leaves two sides in the matter, as if we could just decide to do something else now. I reviewed it in my speech earlier that it is not possible if we are going to obey current laws. Then there was. A senator with the solution that we would do this in a different way, recalling and retailing relics on some particular number of years and selling them again. [[The president calls.]] It is possible for the legislatator to set a special law, such as had been discussed in the so - called expiration route of the United States, which did not occur during their reign.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u39	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson whether I'm sure it's not properly understood that I'm closing the system for mackerel. Fishing experience is used for distribution, and the system has thus been shut down. For someone to come into it, he needs to buy the rights of those who received distribution there. And there's something valuable. With the figures mentioned here yesterday, they may have been calculated based on the cod level of macroils as one third of codfish. What is the future goal of codlights today? 2,23.52K. What's the tenant for cod? 1801⁄220 k. We're here with a bill that's going to move the money from these sources to the development of prices and provision. Is that not correct? Senator? It also means that the person assigned a reservation can exit the system immediately and sell it and take the money out of the article. It's been the biggest stumbling block in the eater system since the beginning. It doesn't necessarily have to, even if it was just the rent shop that was stopped. That's where we had our chance. Because new laws are being passed on the mackerel, men are not so bound by the older, so we can get away with it at the time not to have expedient on the mackerel so far. Then, like the above - mentioned person, I ask: Why don't we take this opportunity now and experiment with the farewell council or a post to open up the article? Has a what? Don't you worry about that, because he listed here based resources and that there's a line-and-hand contract, that there's going to be a shutdown of this volume-up bill in line and manual? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u40	A respectable president. There's some misunderstanding that the volume of lines and hands is closing. Of course, there is only a proportion like that. Now we're putting new laws on this stock. We're shutting down the system, yes, we're going to the law. Hv. A senator put it well: At one time, we got away with this in a way that was done during the last term in 2010 and after that, we got away with it. Yes, that government got away with it, but with the consequences that we face. An agent of the Generals has concluded that it was a broken law. This may be a major factor in the mind of those then in charge and that this has been a lawsuit against the State on the basis of it. We're going to the law. The law clearly states that and that they were not changed during the last terms in this regard. However, there is a law being set today that is a completely new system, and perhaps in order to respond to the very thing that has been a thorn in the eyes of many, and to all of us, I can claim, what happened when the deed was unveiled and sold out of the article even in relatively lazy companies and walked away in fat. This period is now being limited for six years. The reality of macroilism is far different from that of the institutions here throughout the centuries. It's being put in for six years, it's being set up a relatively substantial cost for the six years, so it's quite clear that this certainly has a huge impact on one of the future market prices. They're trying to make some kind of money out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u41	V.E.G. President. I'm counting on it. The head of the professional road committee calculates the value of what is being moved to people who are being called on mackerel. It is said that laws are being made, binding these laws that the law is about to be performed. At the same time, though, fishing experience should be used from three years to six years. That's not in harmony with the old law. There's plenty of experiences about her husband, the shrimp, etc. where there have been special laws for certain strains. I trust we also have a discussion about why we must not allow the price to be paid to catch fish by wearing it all at a farewell party or a market. So we share a view, me and what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, that we want a powerful fishing route, we want to eliminate uncertainty in this article, and we want to look for a long future. This and a feeling of reconciliation with the nation as much as with the builders does require that they take into account the fundamental factors involved and take into consideration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, this bill doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u42	A respectable president. First, I believe that there are misunderstandings, although there are differences in times of reference, it's in the current law, just so they say. There are differences in the law with regard to institutions. I don't remember what it's like, but my viewpoint is that it's completely in accordance with the law. Allowing the cost to itself, does it make any sense? It was handled well by the highest level. Yesterday, a sea chief of ministers in a speech about what national experience would be the way of offering the auction, how the collection will be in a few hands under such circumstances, how they will be stronger than in memory, how the ground will be entirely dependent. It's not like they haven't been looked into the basement. This is considered the most practical route and is completely in accordance with national legislation. [[The president calls.]] Then they can change the law if they want to. This law was not changed during the last terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u43	Mr. President. I found much to be significant in an excellent and perfunctory speech. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. At first, I want to draw attention to it. A senator seems to be basically against one of the key elements of the bill, or I understood it to be saying that he was saying that at least a set fishing group within the ocean class would not be able to handle it by 18 k. Hunting fees they have to pay in total. I couldn't hear better than that. A senator could say that a committee needs special attention. Is it so that the chairman of the Committee disagrees with this key point at the highest level? High school minister? A similar force is a force of water, and unfortunately, there are changes in the ocean that may lead to the macros returning from here until then, well, that can happen. It needs to be prepared. People have already invested a lot, said what. A senator, and rightly, he noted that an Icelandic fishing route was the best one in the world because it has become the market, and it has been a highly competitive city. Like what? A senator knows that I would like to go along with the market and the market to direct it completely, but there are many faults in it, such as the defect that we often see leading to compression and making it possible for an entire area to lose resources. But I don't think they're right. In this regard, a senator made it impossible to take that step now and pointed out that man had invested very much. So the nature of this article is that I believe that the big, strong firms are best off, and it would probably be only if they were allowed to hire the guards with the competition. But then we come to the same flaws that are the small groups. I believe that we should strengthen and encourage the ability of the small boats to catch mackerel and just to make a long story short, I would like to ask why. Senator: Why do we have this ratio in it, 5.3%? [[The president calls.]] Why couldn't it be 12% or 18%? [[The president calls.]] We're coming to the table right now. [[The president calls.]] This article is closing for the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u44	A respectable president. First, I'll tell you how this level is determined. I think it's in the eye. This is a higher percentage of macroils than the small boats have ever caught. In the last summer, they were assigned something around 4%, if I recall correctly, or perhaps more than 4%, if it reached, around 4%. The total score was about 4.7%. They are now being assigned a slightly higher dose, which may indicate that they are reaching out for the need for this market. There is also a degree of space in these social pots of ours without any decision on how to use it, but there are some source of resources as well as thousands of tons of macroil, along with other species that enter the pot system. This article might help. It's about whether I'm opposed to any requirement to pay the bills we're talking about here that I don't have a basis for putting myself against anything in that subject. But I'm here especially using the little boats and what I think is in front of me, and I actually agree to the highest level. During his discussion yesterday, a sea chief minister who spoke of the matter that he feared that he might be overpriced. It takes professional coverage at the council's scene and why. The employment committees to show and that we make sure that there is some agreement between moderate currency and the growth of the branches and the different production forms, since the diversity of the game is and hopefully remains the strength of the Icelandic Seabed. [[The president calls.]] It is the key to how we react to different conditions on markets, which separate us from other nations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u45	Mr. President. I have always felt that the laws of the market should be used as possible in order to improve the economy and the results of these articles. Yet, I have always said that I still want to make sure that a section of the resource is standing on the shoreline, one of the minimum in order to ensure that there will not be employment in some cases literally moved away. I don't think there's an inconsistencies between these two views. As for the situation now, for the first time, we are shutting this system down, and now we can literally walk out of that system with large amounts of money, they can deliver their resources. I understand the bill so it's more than six years. This has to be said on six years' notice, this will go on automatically every year unless it is done. Back to the miniboats. If you want to look at rules and laws, etc. - Wait, isn't it that the little boats get a much higher percentage of the cods? [[The president calls.]] Why can't we give them the same percentage of the mackerel?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u46	A respectable president. It's true that they have a higher percentage of cods and bodyfish forces than this, they've evolved over the years. Then I will find one piece that will be a fine reminder in the entire discussion of the Icelandic fishing system and what I and my colleagues have been living under, i.e. That we are a special stakeholder for the major projects in the country when it comes to the fishing system, the interests of LIVU, as the former prime minister often said in the General's symposium. But it's exactly the sort of categories that have been moving very much resources from larger companies in the miniboat system. Basically, I think I am. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson is now more and less in agreement on this matter, i.e. That the law of the market should be determined. We need a social system to edit certain problems from the market's laws, if we can put it that way, in regional and productive terms and to try to make sure that work is not moved away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u47	A respectable president. I've got to start by saying that the bill is number one. A minister of macrontures brings great disappointment to me and my companions in the bright future. This is a unique opportunity to take this form of fish and put it in the market that most senators want it to go out, but instead of being taken and handed to those who have taken hunting experience, they completely correct it without paying something special. Yes, I'm supposed to pay 1.5 billion a year that I'm especially divorced for this poem, but the bill doesn't say how that number is found or how correct it is. First, of course, I would have wanted to ask a sea chief, if he had been here in the hall, about why... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u48	The President will do the highest. Captain of the sea, please alert.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u49	Yes, thank you for that. I would like to ask how this money was found. Why the price? Wouldn't it be normal to let the companies who receive this dinner on a silver plate tell us how much it means? According to the bill, 90% of boxing goes to the largest fishing exports in Iceland. HB Grandi gets 14.2% of quatanees, Samherji gets 12.7% of quatans, it gets 11.9%, etc. When I hear what I'm saying. The head of the employment company, Jón Gunnarsson, says that he was worried that they might be overcrowding them less, and it's a concern that the shares are getting to fewer hands, but then at the same time speak for the bill and declare satisfaction with it, as exactly these largest companies get their share in the hands, I don't get up or down, I have to say. The government is handing it over to the major types, which, of course, have been catching mackerel, won hunting experience, without putting the transparent price on it, completely without it. These companies and others felt that this stock was the financial benefit that they were expected to go into debt, change ships, and all that, in order to acquire hunting experience. That's their decision to make. But, of course, they do, because they know that if you have the hunting experience, they'll finally get the quota. If you start out with enough danger, you will be richly rewarded by getting your quota in your hands after years. It's a natural system that's completely crazy, I must say. Others who do not have credit for banks in order to owe themselves, in order to make such investments, cannot obtain the fishing rights as the bigger ones. And when people here talk about being worried about it, like what. The head of the Work Road Committee, that the stronger are overcrowding the memory, is just exactly what's happening, this bill, and this way helps. V.E.G. A minister has spoken of being bound by his hands. He will have to put it this way and give it to these companies through this route because of the opinion of the Allied agent from last summer. I'm just gonna go through it, maybe not so much what's supposed to be all about, but it's stated from the interpretation of the Allegorium agent on a set of regulations in Article 5. track No. 151/1996 about hunting outside jurisdiction. It's like this, with President's permission: The decision to limit the total resources of such a target on a continuous fishing experience should be determined by the panoramic branch of individual ships on the basis of their hunting experience, as compared to the three best season of hunting during the previous six seasons of hunting. Hunting experience is considered to be consistent with this law, with the annual force of Icelandic ships from the relevant stock at least three times during the past six years answered at least One - third of the total resources available for administration by the government of the United States. This is the highest. A minister stands up and says, if I understand him right - and I hate that he's not in the room to correct me if I'm mistaken - that his hands are bound by the approval of the Generalist. And now there is a legal hearing, which could result in problems for the courts. Then, first of all, I would show with full respect for the Generals' agent that he is not a court of law, he has an opinion. And if people claim it, and I think any senator will, at least, do it. and more of the nation, yes, the whole nation, that it really is that they own the resources and that the nation is to be exploited by them, we cannot accept the view that perhaps we do not have them according to something like this. If there's a legal case, it's just gonna have to take its turn. We cannot put a law out of fear of something that hasn't even been put to the test. I would like to remind you in this context that Ministers and governments have for many years, from the time this system was installed, being picking from the resources of development, e.g. in a local rat, and there have been no judgments against its being illegal. It's not illegal. Why now this dread, that it may not alter anything? And we also know that the laws we make are human works, and we are changing them every day. In the 5th. is a problem, let's deal with it. This is basically what I wanted to say in my speech. I'm setting up a big question mark on this fear of lawsuit, expecting a lawsuit, which makes us a pair of pecketing macros in this way, and moving 90% of the resources to big and exclusive companies who don't have to pay for it, who don't have to tell us what they think they're worth. It is possible to do so by means of an auction. They're big and stop companies, so why don't they race amongst themselves in order to get most of the sources and pay state funds for the use of X-many years? That would be my way of thinking. In a bright future, we suggest that we throw this bill off the board and we immediately implement a marketing solution to the distribution of macroils, just right away, and I think that there should be something to be done. We could do that in steps, we could enter 1/6 of the shares each year until all the shares had arrived and then we could go to the auction market. 5/ 6 parts would be the first time with those with their hunting experience, so we'd go somewhere in between. But then it goes down. Then this bossy company can decide, if they want to stay in this business, to invite in the source, now or not at all. People talk about espionage in the fishing road, and it's important. Of course, fishing does not differ from other occupations in that people take risks, borrows, and so on. We're supposed to minimise the effect that we're going to turn everything upside down in people's hands, but that's not to say that a business should be left in its hands just for the sake of their debt and so much or financial resources. I think that motivation is completely twisted and doesn't really work out. I see at the top. A minister has come to the hall, and I would like to bring him in by it, if he would answer me in answer, if an invitation has been visited, and if not, why not? I've mentioned the opinion of the emissary of the Generals, who I hear the Minister is at his disposal, and I wonder why he won't try to make courts decide whether the Icelanders all or individual are really the ones who have the resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. Only with regard to what she came on in the first part of her talk, of the Generals' agent, and the opinion referred to in my background, and also in the report, the agent is not really concerned about who owns the resource. It deals primarily with the legal aspect and the obligation that, under the laws of the country, a mackerel or a special law should be established, going somewhere else. This was not done by a former government. Instead, she decided to direct the wave by the regulations that the agent felt should not have done. The obligation would have been developed in 2011, according to the law code in our country, to place mackerel. For one thing, we are responding, and for the part of the Treaty, we are going to use the system we have used to control our fishing system, to channel the fishing system, and thus to share in the share of the fishing ships we hunt in Iceland. The bill is completely in that spirit, taking into account the obligation of an agent's opinion and the government's policy on how to handle it. This simply does not make it less difficult to offer an offer or an offer or some other way. If former governments, and the sort that some of whom have developed and called for it, wanted to go, it is quite obvious that it was in 2010 and 2011 that they should have done so. But they did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u51	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for coming up here and trying to answer my questions. I don't think people don't object to the fact that a raise system is in progress, but what I and we have at a Bright Future would like to point out is that there's nothing against our use of resources at the same time. A minister has gone through it why he thinks he couldn't, that's because of what was done in 2010. Is he saying, then, that our hands are bound for eternity because the laws of the land were once made and that they will not be benefited? Well, then we're pretty fucked up, I think. But if it's considered the highest. Minister, it's fine if you do so. Then let's try to figure it out. But I'm really worried if that's the case, if that's the best estimate. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u52	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has misunderstood me if he believes it is my position. There are three things I'm talking about. Some uncertainty factors are listed in the macrotype bill, which is different from those of many other strains. This is the opinion of an agent, who simply says that in 2011, at the latest, it was obliged, according to the laws in the country, to comply. This was not done; it was issued under regulations that have since been observed. This has led to normal legitimate expectations for those who have had that intervention, that they intend to maintain that course. In addition, the government's government contract requires that we continue to make good use of this system. And that's why the bill has this format. However, there is a considerable change in share status, a special law, and, of course, the council can establish a special law. A senator may have been asking for. There are special laws here, and they are somewhat different from what they have been before. [[The president calls.]] This is a temporary distribution, and the price is addressed because it is still uninvolved in this population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u53	A respectable president. I'm worried if there's an impending corporate lawsuit that affects what we think we can do here in this room. Will that not just be a lawsuit? The Ministers have taken from the reservations of construction companies, they have done so, placed in settlements, and other things. I'm not necessarily speaking for this kind of work, but this has been done, and no judgment has been made against that matter. Why do ministers have such fears now? As one minister says, there are three reasons why this law and the most important issue there is a dread of legal action. If we firmly believe that the fish belong to the nation, we must also mean what we say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. The talk presented some difficulty. A senator may have been seeing to it that the article had invested so much, so he needed to have a greeting and that he would have the value to meet that investment. I'd like to point out that the largest ships in the seas do not make a special contribution to the mackerel, since the equipment available was used both in sea and land. Thus, there was no much more investment, which shows that the article can, of course, depend on paying a price for the nation and does not need special community support or government support. V.E.G. A minister speaks of and protects himself behind the agency of the Generals and the lawsuits of the Labour Centre and that the last government has done nothing about it. Counts 'em out. A senator did not say that the lawgiver always has the authority to establish laws on the distribution of new species, though it was forced to do so, and certainly it would have been better that it had been done before? Regarding compression in the article that has been discussed, why? A senator did not see that the compression will be quite rapid, since the less it will be, and the less it will be, and the less it will be said, if you have tried to build yourself up at high cost, will it not be too fast?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u55	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions. I think we must always act wisely in this room, and we must, of course, look at the laws we are doing now in terms of the consequences they can have again and what has been done before and all that. And by the way, I don't think we have anything to do here if it's all engraved in stone, then the project's done, we've got laws for eternity. Of course, we have free hands to adapt laws to the society we want to build each time. And hopefully it is in the mind of most members of Congress that society is changing, and we try to improve it along the way. With regard to a fiscal compression and the question of whether it will not be further by this greeting, it completely agrees. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, that's what's at stake. The compression is already very intense. It's the biggest fishing mackerel. They do it well and get a lot of money. We'll see the numbers from the HB Granda, and they'll get the largest part of it. The big companies are about to buy out the other sources, so it goes one way, I think it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u56	Mr. President. I'd like to hear some attitude. The senator said that 10 cents should be needed to cover access to the article and access to the food system in the large fishing system. for a kilogram of cod, of permanent literature, to compare this. What does it say? A senator about that? Just about what's going on. A senator who offers this remuneration. Does she see it being done between fishing parties, as if it were divided? I have spoken of a rented mat of the State, where there are three types of fishing and that the price could be a share of valuable things from sea to sea to meet different fishing companies. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear some attitude. That's what a senator is for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u57	A respectable president. Only first of our ideas, mine and ours in a short future, to make these shares available. I think it needs to be replaced. We don't want this 100% on a completely open market, not so far, and then I'm talking for myself. Of course, it is important to divide it. There's a community basis in there, there's different types of developers, different shapes to think about. For tenants or a way to go. A senator mentioned I haven't examined it well enough, but it's presented, I think, in order to divide it in some way. About 10 K. I can't get over it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u58	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir In part, Mr. Ólafsdóttir has answered the questions I was going to ask her. My attitude in this case works a little ▪skist farnsoft, but it is not that there is an insurmountable internal paradox. I believe in general the saying that the market law should be used as far as possible to maximise its yield and ensure the best results. Yet I know the dark side of the system. We all know them that are here. It is the fact that food is bought away, and communities are left in wounds, even in ruins, a relatively recent example of this. That's why I've always said that at the same time as I'd like to use the game rules of the market to get the most money out of this article for the nation, I'd also like to set aside a certain amount that makes sure that we can create jobs and a short job groundwork, and we'll do it through settlements, coastal fishing, and cross-country, and other things. I believe that to the mackalians, this approach should also be made, and it is nothing like it. paritaprevir Though I may have questioned her as marketed as I was, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir was saying. At any rate, what makes me happy is that there seems to be an understanding of the future and others regarding the fact that small boats are coming in there and they've invested quite a lot in it, and they're probably doing it because they see a profit chance. Although the previous year may not have been so successful, it was very successful in the years leading up to that. I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Is it not correct to believe that the proportion of small boats to receive, 5.3% on the bill, will be increased? And is there any objection to their spending the proportion they receive? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u59	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It's about what it's like. A member of the council said of rural areas and ways to establish the foundation and importance of this, I agree with him on the importance of the latter, to establish and strengthen the building blocks. However, I must say that I am an agnostic, because we look at what history has taught us about settlements and whether he is the best solution to it. Unfortunately, he's done nothing very well. Still, goodbyes can be bought away, and they have been able to produce settlements. I think we should try to expand our horizons only when it comes to settlements and because they don't necessarily have to rely on what comes up out of the water, they should be built up, and maybe, if they choose, built-up. I think they should be given more free hands even to sell the settlements and have some local policy than to catch fish from the sea. I think the locals should have it. I find it very strange that we at the Council or the Based Institutes decide, that has not been very successful so far. It's been a fragile system. In terms of the small boat rate in this bill, I have to say, I haven't seen the exchange on that very basis. Of course, you are surprised to see that 90% is going to the large structure that has, in its size, won the biggest fishing experience. I don't like it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u60	I'm wondering how to understand the answer. Senator. She says she's in opposition to this greeting. She wants the market law under control, as I would like it to be. Can I conclude, then, that she believes that everyone should compete for the same market? I ask because I felt that there was something else she answered. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I watch it this way, and let them drop all the cohesives, we let them lie in half, that in the time, small boats were fighting for the get to catch as much cod, natural. In 1994, they had 4.8% of the cycle. Now it's up to 18◯20%. If today's small boats are hunting at least a rough one, we put some rules here. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says that to be based on already existing things, is it not reasonable that small boats have access to the same share of mackerel and cod? That's my attitude. What does it say? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u61	I agree with what. A senator that if people give themselves the basis for what he is and what he is doing. Jón If this is the case with Gunnarsson, if he is going to follow a hunting experience and if his share is higher in small boats, he should, of course, get a higher proportion. I'm just saying I don't think this whole bag is the thing, it's a lot of junk. [[Thinks it's a mess.]] Let's take this 90% distribution. To find the right price for it, is it not the best thing to do in a competitive race? I realize that it's not the best way if you're working on the ground, letting those little boats do it too, let them out completely out of parentheses. But why isn't 90% of the sources worth the competition? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u62	A respectable president. I welcome this bill from the High Commissioner for the Interchangement of Macroil, even though I do not fully approve of it. It should not be surprising that the mackerel is shared, in which the Treaty of the Prosecution and Independence Party states that a harvest system should continue, as well as the laws of the land simply require it. The target system has proved itself to be the most targeted system to limit the application of certain institutions, prevent overinvestment and maximise the yield of both nation and company from the resource. The bill describes the importance of providing forethought in this article, but six years is not long in the fishing industry. I don't think anyone who works in the fishing road today will find six years of safety and are disappointed that it's not being any bigger, as well as that it's actually a major system modification of to six years of age. And I ask why six years old, why not four, eight or ten, or 15 or 20? Also, I wonder if 10 K's. An extra price on the mackerel is for sale or rent price. Maybe it's a bonus. I think it's very burdensome for the ships that only hunt. It tells itself that if the price for marketing is 50 to have been found,90 k. has a total of 16◯18 k. A pretty high percentage of total prices. I realize that it is more difficult to justify these high charges on the parties both in fishing and in the process, but there is no fairness in adding a tax work on the few people left in this article. In fact, it was a big accident that the mackerel had to look west through, into our waters, and come to our aid in time of crisis. On the other hand, people forget that it is not enough for the mackerel to swim into Icelandic waters if there are no sailors to hunt it, and not the right ships, and the right equipment to hunt and win. The very Source of riches does not become something of itself. It is easy to sit here, calculate the expected profits, and tax returns so that no one can find benefit in smelling the food holes and making them valuable. It was at least fine for us here that when the mackerel swam toward us, we had powerful waters, we had powerful ships, even though the way of the sea was in debt, that powerful ship that mastered and then won it and made up of it the valuables that many of us are doing, believing that came from heaven. It was not by itself that the mackerel would become these valuable, and to God's delight, we were our own masters, but we did not have to see the European Union's ship catching the mackerel on our nose, but we would have had to do it if we had walked in the European Union. In terms of sharing in the miniboat, I am able to join with small boatmen, and I am not convinced that it is appropriate to share the hand fishing. There are advantages, so there's no denying, just like the big ones. The overinvestigated investment, which has undeniably been in the last few years, will cease if 5% of the total population is to become fished on this fleet. As noted by the bill, the performance of the small boats is vast, and in the final days of the season, 300 to 4,400 tons were caught. I'm worried that even those 5% won't be caught. I fear that too few small boats go to this fishing because of a small dinner, small distribution of each one, and that those trying to start with a story. A high price of 10 bucks. does not encourage, nor will it contribute to legalization. In addition, the Makri has shown that he is unpredictable. Although most fished in the south and west of the last year, it could be the east and north of the next year, i.e. if he usually comes. The small boats are generally more local than the ocean's waters, but the up-to-date fleet, the powerful fleet that created these valuables, the hunts in the Greenland Sea, the entire Iceland land weekend, the Norwayn coasts and the 5th-story jurisdiction. The small boat fleet is more local, and if the mackerel changed its walking pattern, it would be less likely to be found if it came up on the eastern shore and north, without any small boats in the east or north. In addition, if small boats wait to catch him until he gets fatter and more valuable, e.g. in September or longer, there is a greater chance that bad weather will prevent its success, and he will swim by and the nation will be of value. It is easier for a minister to intervene and to have a larger ship catch ruined species in the case of a pot than to move from individual ships or boats. The advantage of having the small boats in the Olympic fishing is that small boatmen will be on the watch all over the country and more likely to be found in the ground and caught at another level. It is unfair that boats from south, where many crops first come and are caught, will be tormented by the time they are seen in the north, there is no denying. I hope I don't get the truth and it's all going to work out, and the little boats are going to get this 5%. As I said before, I'm pretty much satisfied with this bill, but I hope that it'll be some sort of change for a pro board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u63	Mr. President. I just want to ask the senator for one thing, see if he is ready to explain his interests in the matter. That's a good rule. For example, it is working on a code of ethics in the Presidency Committee that members of Parliaments account for the interests they have to care for because it can affect the presentation, etc. It's just a good code. Is the senator ready to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u64	A respectable president. I'm not shy about it, and I've never been afraid to account for any less linking into the water. I'm very well connected to the miniboat fleet. I'm connected to the bullfish fleet, there to share a large company as most know. I have not been hiding it, and I have announced in the first few days of the council that the way of the sea was very related to me. I have felt free to say it, and I told the Senate that I was quite determined to express myself here on matters that I thought I knew about. I've been to sea, and I've been a carpenter. If you want more information about it, be my guest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u65	Mr. President. In the Code that is being won at the General Assembly, which has been complained about by the Greco, which has been called after this code of ethics, we have come far beyond the deadline, including the fact that members of Parliament are calling attention to all the interests that are important in the handling of a matter in the council or in the committees. It is good, then, that the senator is ready to do so. He may also want to state that it does not involve any conflict between real or possible economic, business, or financial or other interests. The senator can more fully discern who his personal interests are because the bill would be accepted as it is now before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u66	A respectable president. I wish I could. I wish that the prejudicial situation in the fishing road was so great that I could bring it here calculated. [[Up front.]] Sadly, though, you never know how things are going to work out. I don't know how to calculate the interests of a dollar. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u67	Not a conversation in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u68	I'm just saying, like I used to say, I'm connected to this fleet, the whole T-shirt and the miniboat. I've been doing mackerel fishing and bullfish, so if it's part of a pot or a pot, you just don't know how it's going to go, what's the distribution. [[The president calls.]] I can't answer that again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u69	Mr. President. I like it. A senator has spoken quite a bit of a cross in these matters. He celebrates these treaties, says that they are good according to his class policy, which I know to be salutist and extemporanist, while critical of the fact that small boats are being shared and that they are getting too low. How high the rate of small boats in this receipt could he accept to be fully satisfied with this bill? I would also like to hear his attitude toward the presidents of the United States Association, who say that this is really a blow for the article. Can he imagine the possibility of a new recruit after they have checked it out? In view of the circumstances here, how does others manage to get into the article, to buy from others, and to pay a price plus fishing fee? If this system has been shut down as it is, what possibilities do you have? I'd also like to hear his attitude about that in today's quota system, they pay high to 3 you. K. for permanent eating of cod, while those who have been before the past few years with reference are required to pay 10 k. Does he, as a market - minded person, feel that this is a natural difference? Does he rightly believe that those in the miniboat branch who may be driven out of this business will get more than tens of millions to quit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u70	A respectable president. I don't admit I'm talking here something on a cross. I'm just in favor of the map system. Even if we're on the ground with a catch system, that doesn't mean we've got 5.3% on some urban projects, like whatnot. A senator knows. I never said I'd have a 5% low ratio. 5% is just what this fleet has been catching. I wonder, however, and have expressed doubts and concerns that the walking pattern on mackerel will be different. If he does not catch on the shores, a minister may find it more convenient to let the larger ships catch sooner before walking out of his jurisdiction again. That's just what I'm pointing at. It's a practical option for the small boat fleet to go to the catch line, then these Olympics are not. Then there are not 100 ships on the outside at the same spot at a time and 100 ships are fully loaded, the complete process is completed, and there is nowhere to go, inflation, and nothing else. There are benefits and defects in both systems. I'm afraid I'm afraid to predict that this is a knock on the story. I'm just saying there's some pros and cons on both systems. The concern is when to intervene. Or should we accept that if he does not enter a shallow path, he will simply swim away and we will be of that value? [[The president calls.]] Perhaps at some point we should leave him large commands that are better off catching him when he is in that area?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u71	Mr. President. I'd like to hear some attitude. The senator with the ideas I've been saying about renting, renting markets, divided into three categories, and that the price is a share of valuable things from sea to sea. How does he feel about this? Or can he write that it is possible to go along with the flexibility he speaks of, that the mackerel is quite flexible in his jurisdiction? I'd also like to hear his attitude about this dinner, whether he thinks it would be the right to get compensation, as if this different tool of law, which we don't want, or change, that he would leave the beach and would be far from shore only the seawaters could pick him up. Would it be reasonable for small boats to ask for compensation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u72	A respectable president. There's always the flaw, as we've seen, that there's always the biggest of them that -- Yeah, there's always some of the biggest in each category, you know that. [[... divide even.]] The miniboat system has large parties, so the nature of the situation is always the largest in each category or whatever the way we have it, so I don't approve of it. Shrimpment benefits, this is a share, and it tells itself that if the result is zero, the share is zero. I can't see how any compensation should happen there, so I'm not afraid of it. Regarding the question just now, whether a small boatman or a human will be leaving with any million, even though 20 or 50 tons of distribution will reveal to itself that it is not practical to catch a mackerel at a rate of 16◯18. Hunting fee, then I'll give you a $50,480. The file %1 has reached its maximum seed limit. Do you want to connect to the server? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] There can be no difference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u73	Mr. President. In view of the final words of sharpness. I also ask a senator: Does he assume that according to the system set up in this bill, the little boats will try to get them off their backs and sell them? Is that what he thinks about the bill? Hv. A senator made the European Union a simple subject. I believe that if we had been in the European Union, we might have been making a deal sooner and possibly on a bigger share for Iceland, but we could have done all right. A seafaring minister, in effect, made a deal with the European Union last year, although the Norwegians made themselves a stumbling block so that they could work out agreements. Hv. A senator also spoke of being unable to see things out of the picture, even though the workers showed initiative and took advantage of the food holes to be desired. Certainly, it was men who started fishing at the mackerel and began to hunt 350 tons, 400 tons, and ten times that in one year, but we remember how they were fishing. They were Olympics, and it was the last government that knew about the builders by means of a rule that led to the direct order of ordering them to hunt him for human consumption. In the past, it had produced quite a bad word for the Icelanders in the international media that showed how we went to that resource. It was an accident to the government that was the last person to make a fair sense of this. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of his words on the sharing of these 5% within the miniboat system: Does he feel that it would be better for them and the nation as a whole to produce no participation but an Olympic attendance? It's a point of view. I think they should listen to what they're saying. A senator, for he knows these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. He asks me if I'm worried or not about whether small boats will try to get some part of them, say goodbye, or what we call them. Let us realize that it takes up to 10 million to prepare a boat for this kind of fishing so that at first glance I can imagine that the distribution could be in general 20 to 60 tons, perhaps more, even 100 tons, but it does not seem to be going fishing even if they have the equipment. If they are going to catch 20 tons, 50 tons, or 50 tons, to sell 50 or 70 cents, they will not start making themselves ready for this hunt. It tells itself, doesn't look that way with the prices on the mackerels at the moment. If you are a partner who's going to reinvigorate himself by renting or selling from someone else and catching a fish he sells at a rate of 50 to 80. I'm gonna pay you $16,1 6 1 0... and I'm gonna have to pay you. in hunting fees, I can't see that it can be, that there's a basis for paying something for it. I would have thought for this fleet with so little experience walking patterns in the mackerel, we don't know where he's coming or whether he's coming. He can go up north or east, and the boats are here in the south, so I would have thought it would be better - but if it was always the same - it's a practical factor in the sharing process. [[The president calls.]] You don't know, there's so much uncertainty in these waters all the time that you don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u75	I see why. A senator believes that the size of this bill is so small that it simply doesn't pay to get ready for the hunt. As a result, he believes that there will be compression and that they will move the greeting from one side to another. This is one way to make things better and to expand the share of each boat, and it is to give the small fleet a larger portion of the total resources. It's important, so I think that's what it is. In this discussion, a senator made an extremely important argument and made it clear that the ratio of the macroli of the bill to the small submarine is not a result of economic interest. If walking by the submarine is not completely going to be done, the ratio must be increased. This may seem to me the most important thing that has ever happened in this discussion to date.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u76	A respectable president. It tells itself that there will be compression, for that reason the game is made. The nature of sharing is to improve economy, and economic management is to catch the catch on fewer boats. It can be called a conglomeration or something else, but it is a more affordable catch for all, for land and nation, and for those who hunt, i.e. that you can do this for one or two months. For those little boatmen who get little, it's just a simple account, that's not unless they've made something available for their affordable price, which I don't know where it could be. Inevitably, fewer boats will be. Then we can debate if this is supposed to be 5%, 10% or 20%. I would think it would be acceptable to have a 5%, I think it's a great risk in this pot if we're going to have it tested right up until the fall if it's gonna catch up. If this is to be shared on another level, I have not been demanding an increase in the size of that pot. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u77	President. Is anyone linking the word data storage? I don't think that means very little to most people because the word does not clearly describe what it means in the real world. But data storage simply means that a digital shadow follows you, just like the shadow in the layer I have a small, weird shadow. Usually, you don't think much of your shadow, and it's impossible to grab and hold it. On the other hand, our digital shadow is easy to share with, whether it is between government or private companies, between countries or between spies. That is why it is so important to have a clear, unscrupulous code of permission to hold and store our digital shadow when it becomes evident, as was shown in response to any query. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson on how often the courts gave the police the clearance to listen, in almost 99% of cases, President. The law-made defenses do not seem to work, and wiretaps seem to be involved in matters that are not at all serious enough to justify the serious intervention of privacy. This is a means to be used only in cases of very serious crimes. The 2009 Court of Human Rights discussed the privacy and conduct of the telecommunications and other nuances of the digital shadow, defined in the Enforcement Act and is a part of police tool to spy out whether it is a matter of past, present, or future. In view of the fact that courts in Moldova accepted all police requests for telecommunication research in 2007, the court agreed that checking phone use had been a tremendously overused. As a result, the sentence concluded that the laws on these subjects in Moldova would not have provided sufficient protection from misuse of power as parity 8. The European Convention on Sanctity Controls Our privacy. The court also stated that telecommunication is a very serious intervention in people's rights and that it should only be allowed on the basis of a consistent suspicion that the person had committed a serious crime. The situation is virtually comparable to that of the country's traditional region. President. I'd like to ask you how to do the highest. The Minister of the state sees that it is best to deal with the temptation that occurs when it is simple to control our digital privacy and to trap our digital shadow without even being aware of it. Take care of the highest. Ministers respond to increasing intervention and suggest a legislation to help clarify the legal frame that should better ensure the security of the citizens? Pirata's senators have already proposed two districts recently to cope with this trend, and it would be totally harmless to us at all. If not already in charge of the Ministry, the Minister will restore it to correct laws that touch data storage and telecommunications to prevent abuse. We've suggested that the warrant for wiretaps be tightened, the suspected offense protected at least An eight - year prison will be an unscrupulous condition, and it cannot be referred merely to public interests because it seems even to be easier than the other to accept the digital shadow, which is certainly as important as it is a serious intervention for privacy. Set Piratars to set up the same criteria for data storage as other wires, such as phone barns. At the same time, we suggest that a special lawyer be appointed to protect the interests of the individual who is listening when a judge's permission is requested according to 84th paragraph. A criminal law, a wiretap for any nuance of communication. President. It's been called the highest. Investigator of the media, it is reasonable for us to address questions as to whether to provide premeditated authority to the police. Such a warrant simply means that police are authorized to spy on citizens of the country because of suspicion of possible criminal activity in the future and without any crime being committed, as was the case in the novel Minority Report. Wouldn't it be wise to start by fixing only the existing authorities that already exist and cutting off the grand privacy of our private life before we consider giving the police even more authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for taking up this case here at the General Assembly. The Law on Prosecution, No. 88/2008, police are allowed to take on telephone calls and other comparable actions in order to meet specific criteria. Each court has the right to determine whether or not these conditions are available and cannot be acted without the exception of a court order. The most permanent police due to criminal activity severely impairs the privacy of private life, as is the fact that the person to whom it is directed does not know about it. Icelandic society and its government depend on our respect for the human rights and security of the city. Therefore, it is extremely important that clear legal requirements exist for the implementation of police research warrants and clear and effective surveillance. Sources to telecommunications and other comparable actions for criminal investigation based on criminal law, No. 88/2008, in the form of inquiries and second discussion, have been regularly discussed here at the council. The Council of Ministers at 139, 141, and 144th C.E. responded to the careful inquiry of the senators about their use of police resources. In my prehuman existence, the Court's Committee was assigned to review the legal requirements, No. 88/2008, about the phone taps, see if there's any need to change the law's records. At the legislature of 2011-2012, a member of the Minister of the State proposed a bill for a change in criminal law with the intention of expounding the conditions for the application of the laws to the telephone calls. But it did not receive a bill to walk as we know it. So, for some time, will has been available in the State Department to review the laws of the law on telecommunications. I can agree with that, and I agree that it needs to be done. Last year, a judicial minister, last autumn, at the Court of Justice, proposed a review of the terms of the S.H.I.E.L.D.'s handling of criminal matters. Has the Court's Committee been making plans for a change in the law with the objective of explaining these regulations on the rights to the telephone wires and now to be considered in the Ministry. Whether the bill is in the form it exists today is not taken as a definitive view of the Ministry. It is important in this discussion that we will always be guided by the fact that there is a serious intervention in privacy, so there will be a balance between the protocols for the benefit of the investigation of serious criminal rights and the monitoring that is supposed to be with them and how we are going to protect the human rights of all of us. Today, the State Attorney's job is to monitor the telecommunications and other similar police research methods. The district attorney has issued specific instructions for police listening in 2012, showing that he should be informed every six months about the completion of his hearing, when they occurred, and in the manner in which listening tolerance was reported. For the council today, there is a bill on the future order of the prosecution, which, among other things, aims to strengthen the office of the district attorney and his monitoring role in the implementation of the prosecution and the application of police research warrants for criminal investigation. The bill, therefore, is taking a step toward increasing the level of rightness. The basis is that of a clear layer of law and effective monitoring. I strongly emphasize that this particular bill, for the establishment of the local district attorney, is carried out during this council. It is an enormous interest in national rights that it will be, and I know that in the General and Education Committee it is in progress, waiting for 2. About, and regarding this matter, it is extremely urgent that we achieve the rights found there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir for bringing this up and thanking you very much. Minister for answers, as far as they can go. The importance of dealing with this matter is reflected at the outset of this discussion. Although we know that it will never be finished, this issue, as already expressed, has been repeated in recent years. In recent years, after a collapse, it has been said that more and more reasons have been given to take this matter into consideration. Information in books and other matters has been made that men were in attendance and almost spying on senators, Protestants, people who were suspected of being dangerous in the community, etc. and observe them in an orderly way. I hope this is the end of the story. Although we can be watched through technology, I hope there are neither political groups, police, nor others watching people. This need to be sure that it is not. We also see that there is reason to be especially careful about this group of subjects. The report on the protests in the East shows a spirit of speech that disturbs you. There must be a direct discussion here, and therefore it would be important that, for example, the draft of the Court Committee, as well as the bill presented by the Piratars and the bill submitted by the former Minister of Ministers, be placed under a powerful task force, which all political parties came to and even more members, human rights organisations and other such persons, who quickly passed on it - I may prepare for the fall council - what we would like to see that the matter will be won. I think we need to take away any doubt that this is not used unless absolutely exceptionally, i.e. The eardrums, and the eardrums, that they may be heard, and the cause, and that there are always courts to be sought.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir You know, Birgitta Jónsdóttir for bringing up this important matter, and I also thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for her reaction. In fact, I am very happy with the emphasis that is expressed in both cases, for both have referred to the fact that telecommunication is a violation of human freedom and privacy and that it needs to be kept in mind at all times. Both emphasize that this must apply very clear rules, clear limits on rules. I have to say, chief. Mr. President, that I am very pleased with these points compared with what we were given frequently to hear here during the last term when the emphasis in this council hall was frequently that suggestions from me were too narrow at the time. There were many senators who had the language that we should be heading for the premeditated police research and would be set up a department to deal with the spirit of what we know in the North countries, with a much more clear source in this regard. In the bill I presented as the Minister of Internal Affairs on behalf of the then state, as a bill for the Council of 2012•2013, the report stated that in any case, the authorities would be authorized to use the telephone noise and to perform the action of the investigation severely narrowed, notably because of the fact that in all cases the source would be justified by the need for public and private interests. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I will be in the second speech and explain the suggestions then laid before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u81	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The daughter of Birgitta Jónsdóttir for starting this important discussion and the highest. The local minister of Olöfu Nordal for very detailed answers, making very clear about the work that is going on within the Ministry on these issues. As mentioned in the discussion, sources to the wiretaps are granted only by court ruling that the exception of the police there is a requirement and that certain legal requirements be passed on by the law on the treatment of criminal cases. It has been observed, what you have seen in the evidence, that this warrant is to be given in terms of human affairs, drugs, and large economics. Yet, even if it is a failure, it is very important to take this discussion. I'm very happy about what's going on at the top. Ministers and other members of Parliament, the importance of accepting the discussion, including what comes from the Court's Committee of Justice and even the prime news of these matters. We can take this discussion especially because it has been suggested that the main majority of applications are transmitted through wire wires. As mentioned in this discussion, there are 99% of cases approved. The criminal treatment law specifically states that unless there is a strong reason for listening and information that is relevant to the investigation, there is only permission to be given. It also states in the law that there is a set and limited amount of time given under authorization and that it is important to follow that time frame. I just want to state that it is very important that there is a balance between our research documents and our human rights when these matters are discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u82	A respectable president. The discussion presented here is an excellent testimony regarding how a few years of conversation can lead to a community's reaching a very uniform conclusion. It sounds to me that in this hall, people's opinions are very much like the need to be balanced between the individual's interests and his freedom to represent themselves and the authority's authority to make sure that the laws and rules that we have decided to live on are not being violated. In fact, during the last term, I have personally been searching for these topics, sharing in the presentation of a synonym with a few members of the council who were working along with some of the other members of the council who were just looking at the source of authority in these matters in the countries we compare with. Since then, we've developed this discussion, and I think the conclusion is leading us here. We have reached our priorities. You realize that they are many and different, and in my mind, it is most important to protect the individual's right to keep his part in peace and that wires and premeditated sources are a great deal of intervention that it takes an enormously clear rule and a powerful surveillance when men use these methods.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u83	A respectable president. I'm glad this discussion continues, and especially I welcome the answer. The Minister of the Interior State indicates that there is a rich understanding of what is wrong. But just to keep it in mind how much it is to go over a few tiny statistics that I think should be sufficient to show how serious the situation really is here and how far we should be from speaking about things like premeditated research documents, something like that. As mentioned earlier, 99.31% of police wiretaps are approved. In all cases, this is, in effect, an exceptional exception. Five requests of 720 are rejected. In a way, the police ask for and obtain permission. It's also my interest to see what subjects this is used in. If a person mentions murder or sexual immorality, everyone will be willing to listen and be well. But a greater proportion of the requests are due to drug abuse, about 65% of them. 65% of the listening requests are due to drug crime. For example, because of persalation, there are 2.64% of the cases. Sexual dysfunction, 5.28%. It is in a clean section, much more than most of it is here at the council, where it is used in narcotics. Also, if you look at the outcome of the situation, the case goes down in 60% of cases either with the prosecution or the police. It is only in 40% of cases that the matter continues and can be considered legitimate. We're having these issues. We've got to get into this before we start talking about things like premeditated protocols.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u84	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank someone who's gonna say something about this important matter and as much as he can. Minister for clear answers. We on the General and Education Committee have examined these matters a great deal, and we went to visit, including all the committees, to the police in the capital area, handling the execution of the authorized wiretaps, and we presented ourselves in the manner of this operation. It was very valuable to us on the committee, and it was quite clear that the technology that offers us so many new possibilities is something we also need to be careful about, i.e. how we are going to be monitored. We also called on our district attorney, following our visit, to learn how the surveillance is taking place, and this meeting was helpful to the committee. Clearly, the district attorney is trying to do his job as best he can, but of course, he is always able to do better, and there is a great willingness to do so. I'd also like to welcome what was presented in the Minister's case, the fact that there is now a bill from a judicial committee that the Minister considers regarding the change of the law to further explain the laws on what conditions we would like to be met before such authorities are given. In this case, I think, all of the people here have made a note that when we're talking about privacy and when we're talking about so much intervention in our human rights, we have to have clear rules. I think we all agree on that in here. However, we are, I think, not all of us agree on premeditated protocols at any point. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson came in a little bit, and we will, of course, handle this right here in the councilroom later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u85	V.E.G. President. This discussion will help us to understand that while the last issue has been identified, a good combination seems to be that we need to sharpen our rules and explain our reasons. A senator may be a subject of premedical protocols. I'm afraid that's what you might do with what you're doing. A senator with these ideas. But what you are always worried about is that it is so easy to harbor suspicion and fear. In the community, there are always regular times when someone is making some kind of joke - these and the others need to be watched, and there are often small reasons for making a lot of things. Perhaps there was a fine example of what happened outside the General Assembly Hallhouse yesterday, where there was a peaceful protest, but they feared that there was something more there. More serious measures were taken to stop it. The protests were needed as a reminder that the Icelandic Council has not followed this approval to investigate the privatization of banks, for example. Is there any reason to watch such ones? Is there reason to include them in some system to monitor them? Of course not! This is part of it, i.e. These pre-engineered sources, but more like konscing over the telecommunications. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who notes that it is interesting to see which applications have been received, the nature of these cases, where the wire doors have been granted, which includes some of the priorities of the police work. All of this needs to be discussed, and because there is such a good harmony, I think we should try to follow through on it, as I said in my first speech, to draw the party to the level that is using it, to draw out the data that have been submitted over the past few years, and to the experiences that have been experienced. It's interesting to google this case because there's a lot of old speeches coming up from nowhere. The General on this matter at previous councils - draw this out and try to set up rules, already a song in the council to make it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u86	V.E.G. President. I found that there was a very informative dissociation at the time. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson on authority for telecommunication and reason to put on the stitches on it. Keep in mind that statistics do not tell us everything. 99% of the cases agreed could mean that one request for permission on grounds rather than irresponsibility was made. It could mean it. However, I notice the emphasis there on drug research and also the need to look at the context. An organized offense is under way that may be linked to a drug dealer or to any of the factors we know to relate to these activities. We need to consider this in context. But I agree that this is interesting information that needs to be discussed very carefully. We talk about the importance of protecting the individual's interests, the privacy of our personal life. Let us not forget, too, that these sources turn to the other side of the law, we have a general appeal to the law, and then a provision from those subject to a restraining order, such as or persecution of people, yes, and organized crime, all to protect people who are persecuted by criminals, so there are two sides on these issues. I presented, as mentioned earlier, a bill on this subject that I thought would be normal for a revision. I say for my part that I would be ready to narrow down the conditions set out in this bill, to look to eight, and not to six, and to revise references to other legal issues as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u87	V.E.G. President. Sources for listening are granted only by court order, with the exception of a policeman's demand and the meeting of certain legal requirements. It is in exceptional circumstances that the wiretaps are rejected, with rich reasons for waiting for them. Decisions on the license party for the wiretaps are taken from the judges. There's no one who's going to listen to one thing or anything, just that's all. But when we look at the countries that are next to us, such as Denmark and Norway, we might ask, " Can I take something from their laws to us? ' In Denmark, a judge's permission is required for phone taps and is a state attorney appointed to protect his interests and should be given the opportunity to express himself to the attorney. Allow a target number, not a person, to be temporary and to be concerned with up to six years in prison. In Norway, the law has similar features about the sound of the telephone. It is then assumed that behavior needs to be suspected of defending ten - year prisons at least, while the defendant is appointed a lawyer who can sue the court's decision and time frames. Of course, in both lands the penalties apply. The wiretaps being carried out in Denmark and Norway are in more than one region in the United States, but at the 2010 -2011 Council Regulation was proposed to allow premedical research. At that time, it was said that there was a suspected man - made trade, drug transport, an increase in the activities of organized crime and terrorist threats. Even if we do not engage in free, premedical research, we need to check that the environment has changed. It is increasing in crime, and with increasing technological progress, new opportunities are being made. As a citizen, I would like police to have some power to protect the citizens of the country from things that we often don't want to know, let alone personal protection in these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u88	A respectable president. As soon as I thank you for the fine discussion that has been conducted here, I would like to present my second speech simply with two points. The first is that we need to realize that the official organisations - the institutions we have set up to monitor and perform studies, e.g. of criminal activity - making mistakes. There may be mistakes in decision making, in the literature obtained by these research institutions. So there is good reason for us to keep in mind that these guidelines need to be enormously clearer, and we need to be balanced in crossing them. Recent examples of police relations, former Ministers and assistants tell us that when it comes to authority, etc., it is not clear enough guidelines. ... withus. We need to keep all of this in mind. I want to say at the same time that we need to be sure that we are speaking the same language. I'm not necessarily sure that we're all saying the same thing every time we say premeditated evidence. To me, it would be most desirable for us to be absolutely clear about what we're talking about when we're talking about this. The concept is enormously wide, so I think it would really help us if we could, on a mutual basis, try to nail it down. In my mind, I don't want to rule out any such sources, they can be justified. We cannot be so simple in this country that it cannot happen to us as to our neighbors that we have committed serious hate crimes here. Of course, it is part of society to try to discern whether such things are involved, whether they can be seen in advance. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need authority to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u89	President. Thank you so much for this discussion. It is good to feel closer to one another as we discuss these matters more often. Thanks to the highest, too. The secretary of the state for her answers would like to point out that there have already been two basics on this matter at the General Assembly. The second bill presented by Porta's members is based on the bill that came from the Ministry of Internal Affairs during the last term, so that even now certain work has been done that is based on what has already happened. paritaprevir Jónasson's algorithm worked in my day that a court order is working out now. I think it's important we don't let these matters wait very long, it's something we need to deal with right now. It is very clear that we have not approved premeditated protocols, but they are already there. Already they are pursued, as shown in the reply to what? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, but in more than 50% of the cases of telecommunications, there was no basis for conviction. We know of a recent example of listening to a prominent local man for more than three years without condemnation or warrant. I'd like to say something that happened by the night. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson. I think that's a very good suggestion, and I suggest we get started. I hope to the highest. The Minister of the inside will be loyal to this matter, even doing it with the council if she thinks it is necessary to do so. But I would like to reiterate my joy in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u90	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I think it's very important that we discuss these matters here at the Council. I can agree with what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall says it's very important that we be here talking about the same things. This is especially why I described my plan to file a state-of-the-state report, including the State Department, about, and is about, the police's sources, what they are, whether they're sufficient, etc. That's a subtracted report from the Ministry. I was hoping I could contribute to the council this spring, but I don't have the guts to promise, it'll take all of this time. I suppose there's a basis for us to talk about these fundamentals; what it is that we are talking about, what this means, and what it hears to each and every one of us. Thereafter, people can continue to discuss whether they want to seek further authority or how to maintain it. In this regard, I would like to mention that in the case of this matter, I also feel strongly that it is being done in a transnational way. I had thought that at some point I would like to seek the members of this discussion. This is basic to the Icelandic State how we bring these things in. As I have said many times over there, these great interests, the enormous importance of human rights, the fundamental interests, and the security issues we also need to take care of, and they are added to our interests. This is something that concerns all of us, and we need to be able to work together. With regard to the bill I mentioned earlier, I expect that I will soon submit it to the State Department's Web for feedback and reviews. I suppose I would then, if it were, contribute it in the autumn of a coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u91	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss this bill to legalize the operation of fishing at the North East Atlantic Ocean. It's a new, independent bill, a special on the mackerel, and, in itself, a reason to wonder why it's done in this way, but I might come to that better later. When I saw the bill, it caught my attention that it contains enormous changes. The decision to go to the fund section is being made, which means that a certain percentage of the fish stocks determined each year will run out of certain types of fishing according to certain rules. They are being assigned to this strain permanently and thus to close the system according to this legislation. This means that instead of making decisions from year to year, the types of donations that receive this greeting and the possibility of opening up for exorbitant sales will be of special value - i.e. selling this warrant to another party, and thus it is the scheme that allows to exploit this greeting - and by retailers, i.e. Within the year, which means that people allow others to use the resource and take it from them. The primary analysis of the fishing system - of course, there is a disagreement on whether a head should be a greeting system and all that, and then whether it should be an recovery department - has been that we all seem to be in words to admit that a national resource is involved, and that the nation should enjoy the resources of the resource, but we have created a system that has been given the right to certain sources who have been given the right to a particular fishing experience, allowed to give away this authority, will take the money into anything else, but the debt will always be left to the relevant output company and under the weight of it. We have an excellent example of this from the general system, where people are more and less trying to save entire nationalizations after large numbers of countries have sold much of their food and we are there talking about Vestafjörður. I was surprised to find out. A seafaring minister should choose this way. He hides behind the opinion of the U.S. Marshal and that there are laws in the country that must be followed according to that decision. At the same time, it has been announced that there is a court case in which the person is going to attend his rights and determine how much he has lost on the fact that this type has not been checked earlier. It is a huge princely debate over who the property rights are through the saying system, and it is surprising that a minister will take his stand this way. It is a weak case, in my opinion, to hide behind the law, because, in fact, there is new laws here being composed. Then it can be understood as if I drew attention in an answer this morning, to the highest. Ministers are saying, "Well, we're going to set up a law to enforce the law, and the basic reason why these laws are like this is they're telling us to keep it this way. " I think people would have had to think about this much further, stick to the fact that this was not being expedient at first, that it was assigned in a different way, and that the value of this resource was tested by allowing the markets to come through a market - I use the word market, not the auction market or the greeting. Unfortunately, I do not do so, and I hope that the council will do well and try to see what this change involves. Last night, a minister, I mentioned, was moving the country's outputs 100 to 150 billion. I'll honestly admit I used the nuclear figure. who considered this to be 150 billion, but with only 100 billion people to be warned. It can be accessed in another way, saying that the Icelandic fishing system assumes that the value of fish species is measured in cod. If I know correctly, the macroil cod index around a third of codskins, i.e. 33%. If we give ourselves the price of permanent fishing in cod, there is somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 k. I don't know exactly what the number is today - we've already got 100-120 billion if the macro is equal to a third. It can be reasoned that the duration of life for the macroil is unclear and it can also be reasoned that the market will be affected by a special fishing fee. Would it not have been smarter to test the value of this value and to ensure that the value of the money in a government fund by taking it through a farewell council or a market? I can agree with the highest. A minister when he says that it is important to maintain the practicality of Icelandic fishing roads. It is important that we drive through the market system and try to make sure that there is a competition here, at least to some extent. Sadly, though, for some reason people never take the step to the full. This may not in itself be a risk, simply because of the productions that have been prepared for fishing, they will have a head start, they will have fishing experience, and they will have equipment. Also, when people enter such markets or quota markets, they need to be sure that they have set a frame similar to the one in the second part of the bill, that only a certain part of the population can be put in place. Similarly, certain parts can be regionalized and ensure that small boats, or line and handle boats, receive certain parts, and that section is in this bill too small, in my opinion. The bill is submitted to say that there is a more limited distribution than there is in the general quota system, that it is distributed to six years, and then one year at a time. However, it is specifically stated that, in fact, it is only said that the contract has been made permanent but can be declared on six years'notice, ensuring, for example, that one government cannot now change it, since it must always be through two. There's a much better guarantee and a much greater fixation in these mackerel proposals than in the large general system, i.e. in the other part. It is only assigned to one year at a time. It is also quite remarkable when people make the claim that the principle that has been ignored is not possible because there are so many exceptions to the principles. There's been a special arrangement that has been taken without legal intervention. It is also very interesting to examine the legal view, which included an examination of the fishing road during the last terms. It explains that in the general law, yes, the principle of national possession, and even though some right might have been created, the changes have been made in recent years, with the common understanding that things can be changed and have different rules, both according to times and also by fish stocks. There are many examples that fish have been distributed by another rule or by special rules. That's where we have the most recent example of the shrimp. It is the famous case that took place when the tusks were discussed, how to handle them, because all the fishing experience was tied to a particular area. Then, almost all around the country, the Swamp began to swim, opening the country and changing its eating arrangements, etc. This has been achieved by humans, the Norwegian-Sizen Siledium, and so there is no reason but at least to expect an Icelandic legislator to have authority to make such changes, and this is the lawgiver who decided it. It can be criticized that there was no prior law, etc. There's a special law here. There's new songs being set. And what leads to disappointment, but what may not be surprising is who takes the lead in this change. It's not what it wants. Ministers to deviate from the ideologies that these resources are to be dosed to an agent for specific interests. In fact, it is in the same spirit and virtually everything done by that government. She knows exactly who she wants to cry for, unfortunately, and it's disappointing, but that's the way it is. When we discuss the fishing route, we discuss a number of possibilities for innovation. Then they say, "Well, there's no problem being a rookie in the saying system. You just have to buy a saying goodbye. You just have to rent a quota. It is the same after this change. But notice who is being bought and rented, whoever gets the money. It's done by itself. The Kingdom has handed the authority over to exploit the article - i.e. of the resource per se, not of the hunting - to the other person. I think that's very dangerous, and I've always opposed it. And if you're going to try to make peace, it's fundamental that this will be changed in some way, that your equality will be increased, and access to recent recruitment will be increased as well. One of the points quoted, in connection with the seabed, by the present government, is the report as a so - called reconciliation committee - a word that you yourself are using, which never used, was a team of colleagues trying to find a way to find common solutions in the marine outways - suggested. I've done so many times over from this sermon that, unfortunately, there was no single conclusion, opinions were very different about what was best. The United States proposed what was then called an offer - an offer, an offer for the fishing grounds. She did not get caught up with that committee at the time. But one thing was that everyone agreed on, that the first thing was to bring the provision of national resources, and thus the sea resources, into a constitution. Instead of enforcing it in detail, the team quoted the export from 2000 with a detailed explanation of how this resource directive should be included in a constitution, where people interpret national property. What does it mean to be in the Constitution? Not only are fish being talked about but other resources are also being referred to. This was referred to the work of the administrative committee and of those who were considering the Constitution. The result came from that, an excellent suggestion. This law was one of the six questions asked to the nation, and much more was appreciated and needed and supported this arrangement in its constitution. That's why you must make that requirement to the highest degree. A sea chief minister, and indeed for the government and for the Generals, that this law will be set in order to be done during this terms of interest by 2/3 members of Congress. Such a matter should be easy to see. Now, let's start with that before we get into place for certain things, such as the mackerel in this case, in a somewhat worse version of the quota system than is already in place. It's gonna be very interesting to watch. I had big words about the amount of money at stake. Here we discussed the status of agriculture in our day, and foreign counselors came to support the Farmers Association in that we could not follow a pattern from foreign countries regarding our agriculture. We received, among other things, an Icelandic specialist from New Zealand. I remember meetings held at the time by the National Institute of Farmers, and there was a saying of goodbye in agriculture. He said: "How do you think of saying goodbye to agriculture so that you can sell yourself out of this article and leave your debts behind? This is a fundamental question never before answered. The Westerners, a $3 billion dinner sold out of the area of Yes, held 50-60% left by consigning it to the Westlands for 1,600 million. K., the warrant for catching the fish, the 3 billion had gone out of the system. [[The president calls.]] It's what we're fighting against, but it's what the bill is putting on, and that's why I must say I'm opposed to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. V.E.G. The minister has much to hide behind the opinion of the U.S. Councilman in this matter, that according to hunting experience and the legal office of a certain company who wanted everything to be assigned to those who are at the hands of the labor department today. Counts 'em out. A senator that the legislaturer can turn this into a different way than the one here is doing and arguing about it? I liked to hear it. At the end of his talk, a senator said that it was really leaving a lot of debt inside the article, following the fact that this exposition would work as in the system we know today, by being sold out of the article and in debt to them in the article. Is it not doing something that is absolutely unnecessary, about to add this debt to this sector? Is there any need to adjust if there is an increase in debt in this article? What does what? A senator that says that the mackerel may change its course and go out of Icelandic jurisdiction? Should it not, then, be comparable to those who have been in shrimp and who are terrified of being reformed, in view of the actions of the former government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u93	V.E.G. President. The unusual thing about the mackerel is that we have something clean. Of course, we have laws and all of that and a certain experience, but there's a new species, and it's quite true, which has been shown here, that we don't know how long it will be. There is evidence to suggest that it will continue to hold even the west, temporary residence here, more to Greenland than it has become, and so on. When it comes to asking if we can go from law to law, I say in such a way that we must do so in order to create a longer period of legal rights to ensure that in a three - year period, such as in macroil or other fish, the future of the seabed has not been set indefinitely and who can exploit it. I think the government should maintain tremendous defenses and work hard to stop this happening. I would have liked to see a bill that would give the message that it was impossible to do it this way. It is also very interesting to consider what happens now if this limited eater goes on small boats. I heard why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson was concerned, among other things, that these peddlers, lineboats, and handboats will be so small that there is little for the party to do anything but to buy them to himself or to rent from someone else within the same fishing class or to sell themselves out of the system to someone else. Now we don't know the market price, even though I've been trying to figure it out, but it's clear that they're going to end the debt in return. That doesn't add to success. Some people are worried about that, not me, to 10 K. extra charge will be too high and burdensome, but what will it be if 10 interest rates have been added to your investment by reaching out for someone else to make some projection? There's no need to go that way. The annual distribution is to be carried out and experimented by changing shapes on the desk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u94	Mr. President. Yeah, it's about the exposé today in the big system - they're getting about 3,000 bucks. the permanent sale of a kilogram of cod hrash 10 k. ... you'retalking about in the mackerel. Now we know that the mackerel must multiply by three to make value equal to cod, cod. Counts 'em out. A senator to those who receive this quota and do not have to provide access to this resource to more than 10 k. Are those in the present saying system equal to those who are shopping within it? Is it not also a violation of a rule of equality between these systems according to the reality of the marketing termic system we live in? Has a what? A senator examined the price tag on this endeavor? The government feels that it is possible to bring this part of the nation enormous value on silverware; they need nothing more than to have done their mackerel fishing in the past five to six years, and to make money of it; the large productions have had to be small costs to earn a lot of money. But, after her entry into the fishing business, her project had to be put on high - cost equipment, and this display seems to be cut to pieces by small boats. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u95	V.E.G. President. One thing that I believe is very important to discuss in the hearing of the council and the Senate committee is exactly what they are about to offer. I've never spoken of men who can profit from hunting making such valuables. One thing is to have the right to hunt and profit from it, in itself there is no conflict in that relationship, but this is the right option to exploit a resource without fishing. If the bill becomes law, certain people can say right away: Okay, I've been fishing here, I've invested in my little boat, now I'm going to see what I can sell this for. I'll just get out of the story, get some money, some money, I don't know who it's gonna be. If there's a third of the codfish, it's a substantial amount. It may be because of uncertainty that the price is lower, we don't know, but we're always talking about tens of billions. And if you leave this article, you can move it into your accounts or enter the homebook. And if they get out of this article, they leave the debt with the other person who accepted it, and he needs to pay it in addition to investing in equipment. You can talk about 10 bucks, a new fishing fee, that's going down the system. That's what I'm so unhappy about and letting me get annoyed, i.e. that we should go on again, and in this case, with a stock that has not been caught for many years and does not have a burdensome purchase of salads behind us or such. Whether or not they're the same, I don't quite understand how to answer it. But it is natural to realize that we cannot put the mackerel on the same level and codfish that have been for decades and that experience back to many years, even though the season there was only three years in a fishing experience that was now difficult to process. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to see and know, in this discussion, what the market value is on these sources, and what is being transferred in the form of some kind of gift evasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u96	Mr. President. I think the first question that is natural to wonder in connection with this bill is, "Why do you salute a mackerel now, before you start talking about the arrangement or suggestions so in connection with it? ' Is this step necessary? Is it time? Is it political to move this species into the quota system and in this thorough fashion, as is being suggested here? It should not be tried to put on any hide-up dress by disposing the species fully on the basis of command labour experience and, in fact, legalize it for six years with full access to expansion within the two groups. That's in my opinion. Of course, I fully understand the need to shoot stronger improvements under some kind of temporary control of the macroil powder and to have done well before, that is correct. Granted, the person I moved to prepare the government will not be particularly discouraged, for it was certainly suggested in the bill to legalize the fishing regime in 2012 to provide the government with a more advanced fishing warrant for the temporary action of fish fishing in new stocks or drift stocks, which would come to new or increased level into the landways. Of course, the law as it is today is against us, and in my opinion it is not sufficient space to control and monitor progress and development, let evolution gradually stabilise and stabilise so that at any reasonable constant situation, it can decide in what way it will be or if it will be introduced into a general fishing government. Although I say this, I don't share concern that the State is in great danger of losing lawsuits for those who are going to have not assigned all of this to the saying, even in 2011. I do not, and of course I trust that a good - looking defense will be taken on the government. Why should people have done so? Would it have been demeaning and natural to let only the hunting experience of intertwining fish that come very fast with the macroli walk here in our area, mainly from 2007 to2008? Just nail it down like that right now? This would have meant, for example, that my fishing vessels, the beach fishing fleet, had never been tested to share in that use. Would that have been smart? Would that have been fair? No, of course not. There is a disagreement about this stock, no hunting experience has developed in a stable environment, based on the same fishing year after year, earlier than 2011, since it was converted into threefold in the previous years. All ships were free to hunt until 2009. They're still there, but for the first time there's a roof for the rest of our lives to protect Iceland from the accusation that we were here using unregistered pirates, and there's a natural impossible cause for internationally speaking. Thus, in March 2009, a plan was launched to announce the total pay. Then, in 2010, a new arrangement was opened up for other parts of the fleet than for the seaships to penetrate it, and 2011 were still under way. Can the government not do that? Yeah, I think so. I consider this to be by appeal to the government's public authority for controlling these matters, the fairness of this story, and for many other reasons added that Iceland's share has not been negotiated in these institutions. We don't know what we're changing. We do not know what kind of provision we would make with other countries, such as the extent to which we would seek the full wealth within our own jurisdiction or if we were to have access to the jurisdiction of other countries, etc.? All that matters is when it comes to making decisions about the government and the arrangements we have. In the context of the need to put aside six years in advance, there are those who have been appointed to have this warrant. Is there strong evidence to that effect? What was the tragedy when men began to hunt a mackerel when he arrived? Was he somebody? No, he was not great, but there were men, and so it will be. If money - making potentials arise, they take advantage of that opportunity, and there is no terrible sense of destiny in the law of man. So they're going to make sure that the mackerel goes on to the same degree in Iceland for the next six years? Is there foreknowable there? No, of course not, but I'm not giving too much for this. And when it comes to one additional seafood species, where people can use ships and equipment, which are available to other species, there is now no great risk. They just wait in the hope that they will win the lottery year after year. I'd also like to ask about the deed that I am staying for. It's not just putting a species into thegressor system, it's allowing expansion. That is a very big decision, and we know all that talk. V.E.G. A minister may be sensitive to putting on this price tag, but is there a problem with considering the value of this matter, in view of the fact that men are selling the access to the nation's common resource? It's just a free front. Isn't it hard to get out of 2,200,2400k? These days? And if we take some loose estimates for mackerel, that three kilos of mackerel are as valuable as a pound of cod, let's say that the constant is like 0.33/4.35, that's 0.35 times 2,200 k., let's say it. So that's 770 k. for a kilo times 1,50,000 tons, if it were now the hunt. That's 115 billion bucks. That's not a complicated calculation. You don't even have to have it on paper. You can wear it in your head if your head hasn't become more rusty. So, of course, this is a very large amount of money. And it is quite clear that as soon as the deed takes place, people will begin to cash it out, not necessarily by selling themselves out of the article, for example, those who have some experience in mackerel they've had in recent years, let's say ice fishing vessels, they'll sell the lucky one, perhaps for cod. Perhaps they give every three kilos of mackerel for a pound of cod and then have a permanent greeting in its place and a permanent reward. This is likely to happen. I want to state, though I say this in general about the bill, that there are then other regulations that I think are well thought of. For example, in the early years of the Olympics, I would like to mention the man's harrowing bonus to those who truly broke the ice and, in the early years, in the Olympics. Those who worked mackerel for human consumption but did not join in the race to sweep him into the land to melt and thus rush into the use of it. I feel the same way I felt at the time, for the report quotes me as saying that they are entitled to correct matters. So I think it's good, and I just think that some kind of supplementation will come from their age. Also the foreign formulas. Of course, if you intend to do so on the other hand, you will always have to find some practitional criteria that work when you try to read some of that experience, how to let different fishing years penetrate that experience, etc. For the price, 10 K. In addition, in another bill, on top of a general hunting fee, however it may be, there is, of course, a path in the right direction. There is a recognition that it is normal for humans to pay well for the access to this resource, and humans can do it. The method of taking it can always be debated, of course, about the amount. But it has not always been that way, such as during the last terms of the fishing season, that humans admit that this is normal and fair. But it can certainly be said that the current government groups, at least a minister, are now just beginning to recognize that it is not unfair to pay and to have a share in the resource wealth and to pay something for the access. Then, concerning the portion of the beach fishing fleet to only 5% or the hook-and-line fleet, I'm very skeptical of the fact that it's right, reasonable, or time to nail it down and then such a small amount. This is the same volume as the group caught last year, if I can correctly calculate and read out of the package leaflets. The power of the boats by line and by hand was 7,423 tons last year. It's only very close to being 5% of 150,000 tons, isn't it, if it's said goodbye? Yeah, it's just really close. I can only see that they should be boxed fast in exactly that way. Is it time in view of the brief experience of this fleet that he has had to build up? And if we think of the repercussions over the past few years, what's the trend? From 180 tons of 2010 to 300 2011, 1,000 in 2012, 4,600 in 2013, and 7,400 in 2014. What is that development? It is clear that evolution is becoming a real shock because the fleet has been making a lot of weather and mastering this fishing process, investing, and building itself up to be able to provide, as it were. If the macro is on to the same level of groundwater to the ground, into the flea and fish, should we not keep it open to the possibility that the coastal fleet will be used more effectively in an eco-friendly way to get that fish? Of course. That's why I don't think shutting it down like this will work. I'm quite well to say the surprise of that, and I would have put aside my own debate about whether or not to say goodbye to the mackerel, which I think well doesn't mark the time, but I would have liked to assist the minister rather in restoring strength to the temporary control of the macroil continued some year, allowing it to develop without a greeting, without exposition, etc. Then I would have said: " Let us all make sure of a large pot stored like this and not distributed. ' So, according to my opinion, each year, the minimum of every year of total fishing warrants should be taken, used after an incident with these formulas, which are involved in the intervention of the other, but after that, it could be stored as an intervention on top of the others if it was not required to use it in other ways, for example, to add to coastal fishing warrants when he went well and walked to a base path would be large, etc., now or rent out. Of course, it would be nice to see what message the market sent through that some of these items were at least taken and rented out. Why bind it to six years of age and why this forethought of the material when the distribution into the general fishing regime is annual? She is, she's a year old. That doesn't mean that it's moderate and reasonable to rip off all those fishing warrants in one year, we know that. It has discussed the exact time of expiration, which would be moderate in nature. But that the law, not to six years, is a yearly distribution. Of course, this is being placed in a completely different way and over a longer period of time into the future than is in the general law, although there are other traditions and history. V.E.G. A minister proposes on a second bill at the council to pay three years for the hunting fees. For example, why not use the same time period for the mackerel? That's enough, isn't it? I think we must remember that, too, and the highest. Ministers have in mind that we are not taking care of this with any overall review of the law on the control of fish fishing in our hands. It's locked down in a drawer at the highest. Minister. A minister gave up the opposition in the Independence Party. I say exactly as it is: It weakens the very reason to be tying something of this kind into the future. Why is it not to continue to be controlled temporarily, shooting for a stronger occasion, but I am now not afraid of the state's position in those matters, as I said earlier, and waiting and seeing how these matters will be prepared for the future? It is clear that the legislation as it is and has been about how to receive new strains and build up hunting experience in these materials is a cause of serious injury, both in the management of fish fish and in the media. She needs to change, and an attempt was made to do so by billing the 2012 fishing regime, which was not completed badly. Many here in the hall now know who is primarily responsible for the killing of a bill in the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate on this important matter is a subject of serious concern. There are two things that I would like to come in just a few things that I think are important for us to talk to 1st. It is true that there is a difference of opinion as to whether the timing of the index is now or not. However, there is no room for debate about the opinion of the General agent, even though there is room for debate on the interpretation of the opinion, but he thought it was a duty to share if that condition had developed, no later than 2011, or a special law, as we are doing here. A person will then need to answer when the right time is right, to follow the laws and expectations that humans have set for himself. The second point was highlighted in the second part of each talk. A senator, who wondered if this 10 K will be the case. Be reasonable or not. As noted in other members of Parliament, it is difficult to weigh the market conditions in situations where there is uncertainty about the powder and which have been observed with certain members of the body either very high numbers or by the fact that the strain will cross the country tomorrow, and then it is hardly possible that the market will be very high. But it is quite possible that instead of having an additional annual fee to have one initial fee. It would be interesting to hear what you think. It's for a senator. With regard to the sharing between the small system and the large system, so to simplicity, it is a principle in Icelandic languages that counts equality. [[The president calls.]] In the opinion of an agent, it is not said that any part of the system can be free if it is obligatory to share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u98	Mr. President. It just gives me further evidence that it would be wise to bring about a temporary improvement in the specific control of the mackerels for some year or loss. That would solve all those problems. Let us not forget that in 1 Cor. the law on the control of fishing says that this is a common resource owned by the nation and that the government will treat it. We should not be too shy when discussing the Lawgiver's position in order to make decisions on this basis as well as on the other general standards and objectives of fishing management. It also has value on legal requirements as to what governments should or should not do in these matters. An agent says that either this should be shared or decided by law that it is done in some other way. That is why it is only natural in itself for humans to respond and wonder. I lean on the second option, or the advantage at the highest. Minister mentioned himself. In my opinion, there is much stronger evidence that it is time and right to share, even if one buys a bit of the argument that needs to be addressed, that it is wise for the government to react, because the alternative is obvious and is completely obvious. There, the lawgiver in my mind has a perfectly clear position to do almost anything, especially in this case. In view of the short history of the mackerel gang here and in view of the uncertainty that has been about this year, in view of the fact that our share in the stocks, etc., there is some legitimate expectations that this will be felt forever. It's just not much to do, it's just greed to look at the fact that the first few years of a person's life were slow to go and pick up this fish. [[The president calls.]] It's not like that. It's a nation, and we can control what it's like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u99	A respectable president. I don't think we're arguing that this arrangement is clear in Article 1. legal about the control of fishing. And because I couldn't answer Guðbjartur. Hannesson It is also very important that we do so now for the work that is now being done. I have emphasized that it will be done. So I don't think we're going to argue about it, and we also know that the lawgiver has a good deal of rights to handle and change the law around it, we know it from experience. Hv. A senator came into the small boats only, believing that the matter was not being done very much. I don't agree. I believe we'll do well with the line and manual boats. In the initial phases of the last year, they were less than 4%, 3.6%, and 4.7%, respectively. [[The president calls.]] This is where we're headed to 5%. And besides, of course, the state holds 5.3% for professional, social, and social activities that we are now considering in terms of the Senate resolution proposal. [[The president calls.]] ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u100	Mr. President. That's true, and it'll be interesting to see what's at its height. A minister intends to suggest in the context of this procedure. Of course, there is room for the State to decide whether to exchange it or to keep it from offering rent or something like it. They have opportunities and resources. But I just think it would be wise to have it more. Of course, I think it's wise to do what I've already spoken, to quickly improve under continued temporary management. If there's any part of the distribution or sharing, I think it's minimal that the state holds a substantial pot of evolution in this article and then we see how this works for a few years, such as the entrance into a shallow path. If it becomes so permanent that it will be easy and very practical to pick up the mackerel at the base of the year at a certain time of July, August, September - this too can be distributed to more places in the country as only has happened - don't allow it to develop and hold after a 10% or something like that in a pot to have that chance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u101	A respectable president. I don't need a chart this time. Thank you. A senator for the talk, and I come here more in search of knowledge than the intent to criticize a very good speech. Senator. I'm wondering about all this stuff. I have to admit, I'm a bit of a newborn when it comes to sea fishing practices in general. I hear this in the hall of those who support this suggestion that there are moral justifications for the value of the fishing experience, primarily that people have invested in investments to catch the mackerel, and secondly, that men have assumed that by law they will have this dinner and therefore have the expectation of having it. I'm surprised to hear such moral justifications in this system all together because I wondered what investments the sea route has had to make in order to catch a mackerel rather than something else. I wonder what. A senator can teach me how to do that. I hear that we are more or less alike, and that is why I especially desire his opinion and knowledge of it. Don't people hunt mackerel on the same ships they catch another fish? Do they not use the same devices or what? I'd love to hear what terrible investments these are. I also wondered about my expectations. Haven't people been making money fishing a mackerel? If they didn't get a reservation, would they get in damage business with the state? Is this what men are fishing for? Don't they sell it out in the market? Don't they make money out of it? I don't know exactly what damage the state should pay, I don't know exactly what damage the industry might have done if it doesn't get this quota on top of what it's coming to gain correctly by hunting and selling on the mackerel itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u102	Madam President. I'm just trying to answer this for a minute. This is, of course, so when the mackerel begins to appear in Iceland, they are not controlled. Iceland is not a party to international contracts about the mackerel, we had been refused to get to that table, and then there are no restrictions. All ships on the Icelandic flag on a fishing pass could in itself go and catch a mackerel. The work begins to develop as a means of silhouette. And then there's the big, well-funded fishing ships, the Note and fancy sheep ships that catch mackerel. As the gang grows here, it's time for people to pick up the mackerel directly, and there's still mostly the ships that do it. So cool is it, it also comes into the shallow part of the world, and then you can see that it can be fished on sights and lines on small boats, ice fishing boats, or frozen vessels that were not specialized in the seawaters. So the answer really is yes and no. Of course, the ocean fishing ships, the vastly specialized waste ships, and the tugships, are the most powerful in them. They're best prepared, they have cool trains, etc., they make a lot of the raw material. And, of course, they're the Fumperers. They went to these fishery, they started, and so they raise the country hunting experience in contracts with other countries, etc. Hence, it is only natural to view their position. But when it turns out that other ships can catch up with them, I think it was the right decision in the past government not to shut this thing off just by those who started but to give others a chance to go to these fishing programs. I don't think that time is yet past, that it's time to close it, and this should be allowed to develop, too, because we don't know how the mackerel will behave in the years to come. If he disappears from the base, the only ships that will be powerful enough to pick him up in the ocean of the natural great ships.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u103	A respectable president. For one thing, it's because of this uncertainty that I'm not completely aware of the damage done to me, and that's what I'm trying to figure out. Now people are acting like 5th. a certain law is a directive that we cannot change, which is a discussion that I expect to continue only. We can totally change the law, but then we always have to ask what legitimate expectations are there for those with hunting experience. I don't see those expectations because we don't know what's going on with the mackerel, we know all about the mackerel's future that we don't know his future. For example, suppose we were about to meet in some way the people with their hunting experience, and they reported charges against the State. What would the damages be? On what basis would people want damages? What has it lost to catch the mackerel?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u104	Madam President. That's a very good question. A senator and kind of a nice word. What is the opposite of the damage demand? What is the contrast between one of the major surrogacy companies in the country, who received the mackerel as a cleaner stock for their operation in 2007, 2008, 2009, and so far, and of course, have benefited greatly from catching it? What is the opposite of the damage demand? Is the United States somehow subject to harm to that company? Did it get that bad? It's a bit risky for someone to have a sense of looking to the courts on that basis, I have to say exactly as it is. I really hope that there is no danger to it, and the United States is not in danger. Of course, no one was harmed, no one was wrong. What this is about is that men, in addition to this, were to receive the fishing warrants permanently as a share of free rights to exposition, so that the day after such distribution they could sell it to someone else. [[The president calls.]] That's what fate is all about, and I just call it greed in human terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u105	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister has reasoned with this bill that there was an agent's opinion. That would have been perfectly clear, in effect underlined the Commission's obligation to check the species. Then there were two ways to respond, one of which was to follow the direction presented in the opinion of the wise men to form special laws. And that's what's at the height. Minister has made it. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask believes that this special law should have been otherwise, or I've understood it so, that some sort of improvement should have been put in order to have temporary selective control of macrolides. I agree with the view that a careful look should have been taken. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What should be the nature of such a law? What kind of authority should they give, if any. A senator has thought that out for a long time? Secondly, I ask why. Senator: Is not the monopoly, like the pot finished, already and if this bill becomes legalized immediately a very rapid compression, especially within the small fleet? Is it not, then, that because of the small amount of change in life, it will only be profitable if it is attacked immediately by human compression? And is it not clear that there they will immediately solve their profits, i.e. A lot of people are gonna sell and get money in their pocket? Third, there may not be any groups that are not quite as efficient as the major specialized ships, such as. those who make out on ice fishing, will sell out the quanan, and does that not mean that in places such as south of the West and in various places, ships that have been making out on the mackerel will just disappear? What does it say? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u106	Madam President. You know, I'm just saying, you know, it's like, you know, when I'm talking about maybe, you know, maybe. A senator took a bill from 2012 to look up 9. Well, if I remember correctly. It simply included a provision that would have issued current guidelines in the management of fish fish and in the Non-Second Fishing Act, which requires that on the basis of hard experience for so long and three best years of six years and what it means to share species. I didn't at the time when I was in concern with the mackerel, that it might be considered that the state was disturbed by not sharing it. We always thought, at least The lawyers I examined this with, that the state's position was very strong while the stock had not been fused and in the light of a short fishing experience and that the fishing government itself had been changed. There was no precognition, there was no legitimate human expectations. Of course, the letter of the law is just as it is and may be better. In fact, there were two other species that were being asked for a greeting and that have now been put in a quota, and I think that there was more to it, the state had few good legal reasons not to move them into the system, whether there was a gold blink or what it was, I can't remember. Such laws provide ample room for governments to operate temporarily under special circumstances when new species come into the fishing industry or are increasing their walking here and looking to all the common views of the law, of course, of maximizing the value, of creating employment, of distributing these righteously within the article, etc. Then I come to the second question of compression. Yes, I'm afraid she'll be great. I think that many of the ice fishing and even the cryo-frillists who have been in this fishing season recently are tempted to sell it, perhaps exchange it for other species, and some call it pacification, within the miniboat group, that it moves on to fewer and larger and better equipped parties. [[The president calls.]] And then, land development prospects are lost as they have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u107	Madam President. During the last summer, I visited the Icelandic fishing bus. There I spoke to a young man who ran a sceptre company and worked to sell a mackerel, a hook - up mackerel. He then told me he was in a position to sell that kind of mackerel at 5%. That does not exactly match what some people have to say. Senators from the Board of Staff have said here this morning, but I think that's why it's the right path. A senator is thinking about things. It is possible that a much larger object of macroil could be taken to the base, and this may result in greater prices for it. From that point on, I agree that if men on another level walk onto a path to extract from a larger pot, or whatever one would like to call what can be called, among other things, to develop such new species of fishing and possible processing. I also feel that, because they're talking about equality, people should watch that the small boats have had much, much more time to develop their fishing, even though they did it with explosive powers in the last few years, than those with the big ships but started using probe only to catch 350 tons in the first year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u108	Madam President. I'd like to repeat what I only came to the end of the past, and it's the development of the process, which I've been very excited about. That is where the coastal fishing is of great importance. Several people have tried to take mackerel for their work, to freeze, to smoke, to take the hook command. The treatment of the raw materials in these chapters is very good, and many say that it is the best and strongest ingredient they receive, almost alcohol - fresh, almost live macroil directly from hooks and into processing. I think it should be allowed to develop, and it should not be shut down very much. It is a very dramatic decision to close such an example and to permanently disqualify the rights. If we look back in time, humans have certainly done so in various ways, but this has not always been so that only the fishing experience of a single group has been in control. Let's take the Norwegian-Sisian Keys, when men found a complex formula that took some of the size and performance of the ships of everyone, not just the ones who had recently received. [[The president calls.]] So there are many viewpoints, and if they want to seek equal or fair in this, they must look to the whole article. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u109	Madam President. Let's see if we can track ourselves through the baselines that must have to be fundamental when we discuss national partnership and legalization in general. If we start at the beginning, a dinner is set to make sure that this common resource can be used in a sustainable way. Its justice is set as a quota, but it would have been possible to go another way. It would have been possible for an application day, but the goal or baseline is sustainable, to set a quota, and thus limit the number of fish you can catch each year. In turn, patents are granted, not all citizens are allowed to apply for this common resource, but only to a certain group. It was beginning to look at three years of hunting experience and grant them this patent, this quota. This patent wasn't temporary. It was based on investments, and there must be a link between capital, investment, and time. It's not like that, and it's been like that for decades. Consider another basic principle here that temporarily granting patents has a negative impact, which is the rationale. When it comes to the combined use of a resource, there must be a baseline value that we need to look for when we're working on it. The patents clearly violate the equation, and it must be taken care of that context. If there was some sort of temporary patent for those who had invested and that was in relation to their investment, I think people could quite accept it and say, "Yes, that's fair. Being reasonable must be part of this package if we are going to be able to come to a different value, which I think most people agree on, that the nation's war of fishing management in the country. If it does not prevail, it will always have a negative effect on one of the important baseline values, and this is a precautionary measure. While there is no national agreement on the control of fishing, the article does not show foreknowable unless it is tried to introduce the destiny on other grounds. This, at least, has negative effects on the quality of view. It could always happen that the system would be completely destroyed if it wasn't nationalized, then that pressure is always there. There is a possibility that we can achieve our awareness on other grounds. That is to be done in this bill, but by completely sacrificing the fairness, the equalness, by saying in Leviticus. g., and I'm just gonna say it in human language: distribution of this new quota, and this isn't the old greeting, it's a new quota that's being assigned, it's being restricted and distributed. Now we have the opportunity to do something different with the management of fishing and this, by establishing another kind of law. But no, it's supposed to be the old way, and it's not to be said for six years. They have goodbyes, and you can't quit for six years. Once established, humans are subject to damage, so if a new government takes over and wants to change the system, it will not be able to do so without becoming a liability. The Lawgiver's hands have been bound into the future. It must be taken into consideration. This means a sense of delinquency in this article, but a system that is not nationalized and that is very disagreeable, that is not fair there, that is not a rational principle. It's a very clever game for the board of directors, both of whom have been sent by police to the equacao system of the peoples. It's a very clever move because they can justify the prejudicialness. Of course we want to face things. But they justify him on an inconsistencies and unreasonable basis. I think most Americans would be quite ready to be rented off to six years, even to ten years, even a whole generation. It would ensure premeditation and it would ensure market prices, not any price established by politicians, which would be the market price for this joint use. If we continue with these values, for it increases efficiency, prescientity is clearly important. We'll increase the maximum economy that then ensures the maximum economy of the resource and we want it. But then we come back to the fact that maximum profits and peaks of the article, the use of a common resource, are in a reasonable way being given to the owners, the people. There is another factor in this bill that has to be done with the compromise, which must be taken into account. Having this message overruled increases efficiency, but it creates problems for the future. Today, it is justified that the people who had bought it cannot be taken away from the people who had bought it, that is, the sellout, will create circumstances in which they buy goodbyes. They can sell themselves out of this article, and we know all that story. As soon as the people are handed over, it will enhance efficiency, but there is a problem that needs to be solved in the future if we are to bring it back to the nation, for it somehow requires being reasonable to those who have bought the quatan, which I think most people agree with. It could be something like men trying to do today with the food that has already been assigned and sold, not macrovota that we could take on a different route now, but a greeting that has already been assigned and sold, then it would have to be given them a patent for a certain time. What you have to say now to those who have been hunting is: This is what you have invested. We're going to put limitations on this and you can only hunt a certain amount, etc. but in turn, you will be given permission in time, which is in accordance with the investments you have made. After that, it is the nation's property, and the right to use it is distributed; it is freely sold to six years, eight years old, ten years old, perhaps to 20 years of age, in order to ensure sustain sustainability. By that means, we could show reasonableness to those who have been catching and investing, and we could ensure sustainability, delinquency, and even a national agreement. There is another factor to consider in the bill. Last paragraph, paragraph one. says: ▪ Let there be inconsistencies between the regulations of these laws and other fish - control laws, these laws should apply. If this law, in the conduct of the council, conflicts with other articles on some grounds, e.g. 1st par. the law about the government of the fish that claims the national rights could undermine it. I ask senators to observe it and to be very aware of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u110	President. The bill here for discussion includes big news, and there is a major political news in Iceland when it is submitted here to include in the fishing system and to eat up fish stocks that have not been left before. It is known that the fishing system as it is one of the most controversial laws in the country. It is a law that has changed Icelandic society immensely. It is true that there is a certain effect of the fishing laws that now give back the most valuable valuable assets that were given to the resource without having to pay for it. Now we're standing here with a mackerel that in recent years has been, like someone mentioned, like the Lotto lovers of the Icelandic economy. I may agree with that, but now we're going to hand him over to one year and not to one. It is true, of course, that the one assigned will never be taken in a single breath, but it is that the paper is distributed to one year. Now this new stock is coming in, and it's due to be six. Not only so, but the next six years will always be extended if the law is not changed. It is not that if the dinner is first set on 2016, it will flow out in 2022, but it will always extend unless the law is changed. That is a huge change from what is right today. It's a huge change. Perhaps it could be dramatic and say: Here is the step, showing that the greeting is no longer the national share, but it is an exclusive influence. That is why it is extremely important to understand that these laws will be set up as expected here. A respectable president. In what spirit, so to speak, is this bill being submitted? Yes, there is a terrible situation in society. BHM is on strike. There is a ghost of strikes in a general labour market. The hospital, due to BHM strike, is fired at 40% performance. People can't state contracts if they want to sell or buy houses, so a BHM strike causes a lot of business problems. The market is imminent, and men are blowing themselves off at the demand of 300 o'clock. K. Minimum wage. At the same time, HB Grandi, who is now the offspring of the laws under which the HB Granda controls, adds up the pay by 33%. The government that contributes to this has taken away a wealth tax and has dropped the cost of hunting, it has increased food taxes, and people have to pay more from their own pockets than before, if they get sick. Those with the lowest salary are said to be responsible for stability. And in all of this, people are going to propose this, to transfer 115How150 billion to the inhabitants of the country. It's natural to be a respectable, respectable president. I'm not going to discuss technical exports on the bill because I think it's a lot, much more important to look at it in the big context and to examine in the way that we realize that things in society need to change. The only way people in society, the pay market, the people in BHM who are now in a strike, can meet their demands is for them to become a system change in society. And to change the system, that's exactly what a respectable President needs to change the fishing system. You have to change the proportion of the country, change the quality of the country differently from what has been done so far. And here we have legislation on the basic way of working, where the same old way is to be taken, even worse, than it has been before. It's a flimsy, respectable president. It's completely shocking, isn't it? The only possible way to settle for the mackerel is to say that some senators have suggested it in a free market, to offer it to a man in the quatanium, to farm companies in the quatan. Then, a respectable president, one of society's differences, would be solved by the design itself deciding the cost of fishing, the process itself determined how much money it could pay, and would be willing to pay to catch the fish in the sea. This I think is the only way that anyone's least fair will be in the way of taking the mackerel into the saying system. Then you say, "You can't. " Since auction systems have been tested, they have led to market compression. But the talks that have been held above this number of mine are precisely concerned that the system that is being introduced here will lead to a market compression because those receiving the quatane, miniboats, will likely soon omit the profits they get from receiving the quatane and sell it to others. The ice fishing vessels and the freezer leaders are also believed to be apt to exchange resources. There's compression in the system according to this bill. Then why is the other so much worse? She was informative, I thought, talk about it. paritaprevir This morning's son Jón Gunnarsson, president of the professional trade committee, extolled the market system and production in the fishing road, which would have contributed to the practicality of the fishing road. And I agreed with him. The marketing system contributes to practicality. But he wants it everywhere except for us who own the resource. There must be no market system at the outset. There can be only a market system in which those interest groups who truly support the political parties here and we've seen from the news of paying their campaign fees, they have a profit, not us, not the nation that owns the resource. Listening to praise at that time was fascinating. A senator on how a private company, private people have profited and profited, and he has come out of the master system, while the nation receives nothing, and while the people of the country can't be paid properly. And people are crying out that some people want 300 pulses. K. per month. It's completely shocking, a respectable president. I'm sure some people will say, " It's not a perplexing speech. ' Why don't we discuss that the little boats get 5% and anyone else? But this is the important thing, a respectable president, to look at this bill that is presented here in the big context, by the great division in the country and because this is where the system needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I feel that we senators need to ask themselves some basic questions when there is a chance to assign a common resource in a way that has not been used previously in this article. Then we need to figure out how we want, if we get to a clean table, divide this common resource, and get paid for it. That's why I call men to think about what they want to do, but if they don't always have their minds on the present system, to try to improve it. I often think it's because we always have to be cutting back into the present system. I hear what you're saying. A senator is all for taking some form of outings. I've been talking about renting within the year, and linking it to marketkeepers each time how high the rent will be paid. It's a marketing policy, but it's not that men are walking all the way and only offering in one pot, it's replaced with today's modeling parties. I might just want to hear a little bit of a attitude. That's for a senator. There's a lot of talk about destiny. Is it possible to refer to this strain, which is a different tool, whether like it or not? You can't really make any plans long into the future. So, then, by thus nailing this into a greeting and advising, is not the state asking for damages?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u112	A respectable president. If I first start with the last thing that ever happened. A senator mentioned possible damages: If the mackerel just goes back, he's only a relatively newcomer, would the State have to pay for damages? Yes, there may be a danger. Still, I don't think the state can be responsible for financial failure. On the other hand, I agree completely with the senator in what I thought she was talking about. I strongly recommend a market solution to who gets the quota and what the cost of hunting is. But I agree that not everything should be in one pot. I don't have the recipe for how to do it. Today it was said whether to be a groundroom, but it can be placed in a market without all being in one pot. We might have rules that this size of boats could be offered to this extent or region. There are a variety of jars around it. If you look at the fishing bill, which will be discussed below, you will find such a complication in how it is found and how to calculate it. I think it would be a child's game to create some system on how to offer up the quota. [[The president calls.]] Let us also be prepared, more dignified President, that even if not in the water, there is considerable experience here in offering fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u113	Madam President. Hv. A senator came in handy to put things in full agreement with the progress being done on the government's side, to bring this donor parvota on a silver plate to a producer who's been mackerel fishing for the past few years. With regard to the struggles of various classes in the country today, and the serious situation ahead of us in that and the demand for buying - there is no problem. In this context, did a senator post a price tag on or put these items on? What vaccination system is being started in this system by installing a frontal hall, it is called that a folding is required, but the article is being committed and put outside the board, so to speak. I'm asking if she's not worried that there's foam money on a trip that's not the basis for this big store between which is now created, rather than just paying the usual fishing fee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u114	A respectable president. I'd like men to pay more than just plain fishing fees for their uses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u115	I said normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u116	Normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u118	The question, then, is what normal fishing fees are. For example, I think it's a hunting bill that we're talking about below is not normal. There my misunderstanding was explained to the senator's question. Yeah, that's what I think. I don't want anything special to worry about the business doing anything stupid. The company is to be responsible for itself. I don't think it's our job here at the Council to worry about an overinvest business. If they overinvent them, they'll just have to be responsible for it themselves. Well, that's what I think of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u119	President. I thank the senator for a talk that covers the whole matter. I even wanted to move the matter further from statistics and dates to ask the senator if it would not agree with me that it would be the best thing to do and through the Common Resource Directive to a new constitution before we begin to stir legislation, which can translate government damage requirements, if this becomes a law, before changing the constitution. Now we know that hunting costs need to be confirmed and changed, and I'm asking if the last law could be taken away and put them through the council instead of taking everything that is involved; this is much more extensive and gives certain companies even the opportunity to possess it permanently. It's so easy to get involved. Simply put, there are too many people who can't and who don't want to put themselves in these quotas, yet they're huge interests. I wondered, " Is it any more reasonable for us to secure the resource directive in a constitution and then change the law? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u120	A respectable president. I'm going to let me say, "Yes, of course. In fact, this is a prerequisite for the introduction of this six - year provision. Yet, it would not be enough for me to have a constitution that the resource was clearly owned by the nation. It's not enough, it's also necessary to distribute this quality, this resource. It must be given to the market leaders, not to the stakeholders, or members of the General Assembly today. I'm not a spokesman for unorthodox markets, but I'm a spokesman for the surveillance and rules, where there are any rules. In answer to what I'm saying. paritaprevir Now, I say Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir: The markets can be used, but they can be put in and put in compartments so that it's not a free market. Of course, the Constitution needs to be filled with resources, and it should have been done a long time ago. Not all agree on what that resource policy should look like. I need to meet certain requirements for wealth; it may be worse to have bad laws inside than not, to go worse than at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u121	President. That's where we completely agree, me and what. paritaprevir Of course, the Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir has to be so that it provides its goal, that it cannot be taken from the people what is supposed to provide the basis for them to live in this country and also the basis for us to take care of our resources. All too often, when some gentlemen decide to divide the nation's quality of life to friends and family members, there is a short period of time. But I have no more questions. I feel like the senator meets the nail of his speech. I wish there was someone here to listen to a talk. A senator, for example, the minister of this tribe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u122	A respectable president. So we agree on that, me and the other. A senator, that it doesn't matter what a resource law might be called. But because. A senator, in his previous answer, mentioned that people were not interested in the quotas and that they were not inclined to put themselves in and out of the streets - of course, why should ordinary people be especially interested in goodbye? I understand that those who do this are interested in it. That's why we're supposed to create a system so that the resource will deliver what it most can, without we're here at the Council talking about it or about some person in some institution to calculate this and figure out the other. We're supposed to have it set up, and we have rules, and then we're supposed to let it roll by ourselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u123	A respectable president. I can't afford to come up here after a speech or two. Senator. I think it happened four times in the speech that the people just don't get anything, they just don't get anything, so we have to pay more fees and higher fees and make a substantial review. I can only see that in this bill it is very clear that a business in the sea is giving the nation a great deal of value, and that is a clear picture of that, for example, in 2013, they listed some 25 billion. Here, only companies are considered to be in fishing areas, and not related articles, for of course, these companies produce other jobs and innovations and new things we must always look to and must also have to protect from taxes and fees, because it can also be a completely contrary influence if one begins to abuse them or if they exceed a normal target. Then we may come to the concept of a mere hunting fee, as mentioned here and is something I understand about, this modest fishing fee, is not the same as it is not possible to say that there is nothing there is and that it doesn't give anything to the people today. I have to make comments on this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u124	A respectable president. You might say that when I said that no one was getting anything, I was in the cheek here. Of course, the fishing route is the basic way for the nation's people, although other professional roads have grown larger today. I think I also made it very clear that my heart rejoices that he is making a lot of money and, of course, he pays taxes and expenses, and so on the streets, I don't intend to reduce it. For example, there are people who work in fish and who are not paid very much while the managers of the companies who own them pay themselves well and far more. I don't like it. I don't mean to apologize, people often say things like that, but when I say "what's going on," I might mean rather a little in this relationship. I've got it. A senator now understood that. What I mean is that the companies are prepared to pay much more for catching the fish in the sea than they run into a common fund for it, and they pay it one another. That's what I think is unnatural. That is because if it came to the State, we may not be in these modern - day strikes. Then we could maintain a better health system than we do now. Then we could maintain a better education system than we do now. Money must be put into public funds so that we can support the society in which we want to live. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. I think, at the end of her talk or an answer just moments ago, she admits that she has been eager to give an answer, although it has actually happened again. It is true, of course, that while people allow themselves to say that this does not result in any community, it does not provide the billions to society and a large number of jobs and various types of secondary work, innovations, and other things that cannot be underestimated. I think that's the most important thing in what I wanted to come to. I find it odd to hear the whole conversation on the negative side, that you can overlook the revenues the seaside companies roll, but the taxes they pay are the very basis for a fine wage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u126	A respectable president. I don't see anything wrong with what the fishing companies do. However, I wanted a part of their roll to go more between them and the state than between them, just like that. It's just that. I agree that, of course, these companies pay for the community. I just don't think they can pay enough because they can afford to pay more. I believe that in order to maintain the society we want to maintain, we need to get more from this industry. That's it. People are always talking about the need to lower the value tax on clothes and on the other things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why don't we raise our salary in this country? Then it would all work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u127	A respectable president. I'm going to start by reading the 34th paragraph. in the bill of the Council of Government Act, by permission of the President: The natural resources of Iceland, which are not private, are common and lasting property of the nation. No one can get the resources, or rights associated with them, for a possession or permanent use, and never be sold or mortgaged. Resources of national property include natural quality, such as crops, other marine and marine resources, and sources of water and activation rights, geologic and mining rights. The laws apply to national property of resources below certain depth from the surface of the earth. The use of these resources should be guided by sustainable development and global benefits. Governments, along with those using the resources, bear responsibility for their protection. On the basis of the legislation, the management board can provide permission for the use or use of resources or other limited public quality, for the full amount of money, and for a certain moderate amount of time. Such permission should be given on an equal basis as it never leads to the possession rights or irrefutable custody of the resources. The reason for this talk is to keep it in mind that over the years we have discussed how we are going to manage the marine outlets in Iceland, which is a long way from now on. Also, I think it is important that not everyone has forgotten this bill, the title forgotten me, which was necessary for it to seem necessary, and not everyone has forgotten that it needs and should change the way we think about the seabed and then no other tradition is like it. The debate over the bill we're discussing here has been interesting and interesting to me. I have to admit that I am a frightening newborns when it comes to sea fishing practices in general. I have learned very quickly about this, but I am a long way from being a kind of expert in that subject. So I hope this discussion, and especially the 2nd. Or., let not only be to me but also to the audience's great learning. There are a few things that stab me over and over in the discussion. The main thing that stabs me is the moral justification for letting this saying go free to those with hunting experience. Today, such reasoning as practicalness has often been heard, that practicality is the most important thing in all. Admittedly, practicality is important, but not all others do. There are other aspects of society that also matter. For example, it is important that recent contact can take place. It is important that the system is fair, at least in some way, and in the opinion of many, including me, it is important that there is some kind of equal vision behind it, not necessarily as a trumpet but, of course, it is not to be thrown out as a perfect secondary factor that is of no importance. So the practicality theory isn't supposed to drum everything, but that's why I've almost only heard the practical argument before that I asked a little when it comes to the moral argument. The moral argument, as far as I can see, is determined by two factors. On the one hand, those who have the fishing experience have taken on enormous investments and therefore deserve to receive this salutation, especially in the light of 5. songs I can't remember their names, but they're No. 151/1996, because those with the hunting experience have given themselves for many years that they will get this salutor to be the first to gain this fishing experience. I don't think that moral reasoning is very convincing, since this fish has probably been given and sold and made by men. It's good and good because you want people to profit from feeding, you want people to gain money from doing good to the community. But getting an extra bonus for being first, especially when you look at what company this is, I don't see the moral logic behind it, I don't see the rational logic behind it, so I don't give much for it. I can't see my conversations with those who know a lot more about this than I, who are so many, that it had to be surrounded by what tools and tools and fishing men are using to catch mackerel. For example, when the mackerel entered the jurisdiction that it could be fished in various ways, it has been discovered in many ways that humans have been developing in these materials. That is fine and blessed, but it emphasizes that it is not as if we have had to replace the fleet to catch the mackerel. So I don't fully understand what harm the fishing road is about to experience, which it's supposed to be able to file charges against the state, if not the way this is going to happen to be gone. Nor do I understand why the state, as far as I can see, has not yet been sullied by these laws. Why not? I seem to have every reason to do so now not to be very strong. But most of all, and that may be the main thing in this, or I'm at least inclined to do that, we're talking about a fish farm that's new in Iceland, it's unpredictable and it's been called the locust of the sea because it eats a lot. In view of the fact that we don't know where the trunk will be in a few years, it's new, and apparently we're still developing a way to catch it, I'm feeling a little uncomfortable, so I don't say so hard, to say sorry. We have to face the environmental fact that it is not a possibility in this article when it comes to macroil. That is how it is, and it is not our decision. It's the forces of nature that control it, no matter what it is that it's muttered or muttered. To be honest, I don't really see the great need for legal delinquency in that subject while the biomechanic perspective is as good as no one, it's extremely small. Here comes a point that I hope is not entirely mistaken, and that is the value of the quatane once it has been returned. Suppose this bill becomes a law, and those with hunting experience get this salutation in their hands. So the complaint is worth something, is 100 billion in total, or something like it, which is actually a very careful estimate according to what I get best in view of the market and the cod reading. I wonder what happens then when there are 100 new billions in the economy, which is what happens inevitably with this, when there are 100 billion new values, some would say new money, and you can see that if you want to be open with it: what happens when or rather if the mackerel goes something, because we don't know what happens to him? Well, then we've caused a rather big swing in the economy, which I also think is a little dangerous. That's why I agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller and others who have said this is at least not the time. I don't think we know enough about what happens to the mackerel and how this is going to develop to make such a decision at this point. At all odds, we're creating 100 billion plus we don't know what's going to happen next year. I suggest it matters in the current economy. Therefore, we should rather try to see what will be done with our experience, especially in the light of being able to respond differently in the future if there is a chance, in fact, what I think will be. I think you can change 5. track No. 151/1996 and if anyone wants to charge the state for changing the law, it can be passed on to me. I don't think we should be looking at these things right now, we should be watching the 34. in the bill of the Board of Directorates to Commission Act, we should be looking at how we're going to handle the resource and the resources in general. But the best thing I can say about this is that it's premature and in my opinion that it is irresponsible in part to be making this quota from this point at this point, considering that we don't know what will happen in the future. Then I'm trying to be as positive as I possibly can to this, which is hard. I'm gonna save some more speculation on this until 2nd. I expect it to be significant because this is a fundamental aspect of what we're talking about here, or rather, a basic symptom. These are special requirements because there are special circumstances. That is why I feel perfectly appropriate that we discuss the basis for what we are building these decisions on. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u128	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the control of marauders in the mackerel. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was giving a very interesting talk and was open to what system we should have in fishing. He began his case with the Constitutional ideas of a board of administration, a set of resources, which I agree with. It's fine to go over it. Hv. A senator did so very well, and it is of great importance that we have the framework of fishing and processing, of the system on which we build the seabed. Of course, there are very different interests that lie around, the size of boats and ships, the size of the operator, the combination of fishing and processing and geographic locations - this is a complicated matter, as history has taught us. The origin of the fishing industry is more important to our nation than many other peoples, huh? I'm sure a senator agrees. In recent decades, progress has been made, but in recent years the growth and growth of most companies has improved, as well as the increase in income. It is especially responsible for this system, at least we cannot give strong reasons against it, that the key thought is the use of these materials. Hv. A senator here spoke of trumpet thoughts. So I want to ask you why. The first question to ask is, Can I agree with him on this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u129	A respectable president. New energy's good. We are to be new, and we are to be practical, indeed. But to me it's not the main thing, no. To me, the main thing is responsible use of the fish stock, that we use it little enough to avoid going to the dead much more than we make good use of it to make any investment pay off. Of course it's important, but I don't think it's the main thing in that sense. There are other factors that matter. If a deal with the nation is to be that the practicality is more important than the possibility for innovation, then I'm not sure it's a good deal. I'll make sure of that. In fact, I have the guts to claim that the nation would not approve of such a deal, of course, I'm referring to a social agreement rather than a formal agreement. I find this overemphasis on practicality to be of greater importance than fairness and equation, recent and then responsible marine vision - in fact, preoccupied that there are no differences in how we should use the resource in a responsible way. Well, that's why the saying system is here. I'm aware of it. That's what I think is the main thing. I think that's the main thing, if not the only moral justification in the enteric system. Then we will answer whether there are other schemes that do not result in unfair, difficult innovations and seemingly different developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the answer. In this case, I feel that he has a very good and strong view of the issues he is discussing. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that responsible use is extremely important. The self-sufficiency we've adopted in association with this fishing system is a key key to my future outlook. That's one of the advantages I see in this system, that's the sustainable concept that has been adopted and given strong research. For example, we see it with the cod population. On the other hand, it was presented in a talk. A senator says that the mackerel is a very different tool. He came here for good for the nation under difficult economic conditions not long ago, followed by the collapse. In effect, the mackerel came then, at least to the extent he is catching up with the last few years. But it has to be said that what might be most explained is because we bring a lot of what we fish here and work abroad, both for success and for the price of development. Of course, other factors, such as intensive research and sustainable fishing. The system the highest. The minister and the Council decide must create a measure of stability. Hv. A senator here spoke about the lack of uncertainty, but is it not as important that we have legal assurance for the operator at the convention? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u131	A respectable president. When we make our dinners, our dinner will be worth a fortune. The fish itself is a valuable thing that we have in itself little control if any, and when the mackerel enters the jurisdiction, we make up for its value when it goes, we lose its value. However, when we make our choice to catch the mackerel, we have created new values on top of it. So if the mackerel goes back, which can happen well, not only will the mackerel itself fail but it will also fail in the economy that surrounds it. This is what I fear will exaggerate the effects because we are not sure yet. If the legal arrangement makes investments more certain, I'm not sure that's really a positive thing. I'm not necessarily certain that it's negative, either, but I think it's okay that the fishing route at this time, because of the uncertainty of the macroil, is rather ready to change rapidly, would be more likely to realize that within the age of six, everything could be completely changed. It's out of our hands, it's not us who decide it, it's us who seems to be the mackerel himself or anything but the environment. So I'm not convinced that the realization that we could create here is real. If he's not real, I think he can even create problems rather than solve them. At least I'm afraid of it. Finally, I want to come to correction from what happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. He mentioned to me that the Isles Society in the Western Islands was in charge of the State and that this correction was presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u132	Madam President. I'm just gonna go on a bill on how to manage a fish in North East Atlantic. I would like to say as soon as I begin my talk that I feel that the discussion has been brilliant and refreshing to people who may not know the control of fishing or all its institutions. At any rate, they have been an illuminating experience for me in many ways. There's a political trend on the saying of the saying system and putting the mackerel in the eater, that's where I'm riding, and I'm not the other way out. I've found it interesting what has happened with a member of the board. When it was discussed that compression would be done with the bill, the game would move it to me, and it didn't sound very exciting to me. That's what I have to say. It's not something I picture as a positive thing for the seabed, but it included smaller boats. It was then asked if it was time for the mackerel to be tormented, since experience does not cover many years and is still at odds with the nations around us, as we know. There are many things around the mackerel, to make up for whether it will come to be in our jurisdiction. There's warmer waters here, and there's a lot of factors. So we are not making any sense by establishing this in view of the fact that we still know so little about the behavior of the mackerel. As we noted earlier, it could be said that when the mackerel came in from a collapse, it could not have happened at a better time. And they all sought him, and caught him, which for a time they fought. It was a gift of heaven for the development and also for the Icelandic economy, both for the crown and for the export. But it's the seafood companies who've been getting the most experience since the mackerel hunt. The others came later, so it can be said that it is not unnatural to complain because it is a valuable species, one of the few, or perhaps the only one. They know more about these matters than they have talked about for many years, but they probably haven't gotten such a valuable type into the system as long as it was legalized. Because I've mentioned the contracts before, it's only been made to look into the experience of the Faeroes and the Greenlandians. If I've read correctly, it's Testimony that offered his makovo to about 80 k. the kilogram, which was sold to Samherja at 90 k. We can ask ourselves, " Can we not do the same? ' There were figures and ministers, and others had doubts about the figures mentioned. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask, and others, actually, were well traced when attempts were made to locate the mackerel relative to what would have been obtained for him in codiffs. Of course, it matters how large our dinners are, what markets are, and all that, as with all other resources. But it's quite certain that what's going on is enormous in dollars and pennies. This is of great interest, and it is not to say that fishing has made a lot of money in the fishing industry in the past few years, and we have been able to deal with the fishing costs, including the mackerel. It has been said in the past that the investments in the open - sea fleets were not largely due to the presence of other fish, e.g. the fur and the herb, etc., has been the best for decades at the seaside. So this involves the small ones who have had to invest, and it's those who have shared the hardest part of it. According to my knowledge, we should take into account what is said and observed and remember that because of the mob in the mackerel, there has been a number of jobs in the country. It turns out that if it hadn't happened, the cryohouses would have been shut up in many parts of the country and quite obvious that the 5% here should be divided or leaked out to them is incredibly small. That's what happened. paritaprevir This morning Páll Jóhann's son Pálsson's concern that if a man was given only 20 tons or so on a corpse, that would lead to a failure, that would be too small. Then it would be sold, and men would play with the resource and make money for themselves. I'd rather have the money on the economy, i.e. to the State, instead of the mingling with them. However, the small boats must be given the opportunity to try harder with this fishing before the mackerel must be tormented. By doing things this way, the section of this article is being weighed down, for they too are assigned and may need to buy more and be less dependent on paying resources for the State. This is not good for the parts of the macro, and the time that has passed is far too short. In terms of the time when a six - year distribution has been attributed to fishing documents, not to many years, so it is much more fixed than before. It is not unusual for people to wonder if this is a future intervention in which they need to be dumped and always on six years'notice. If we don't do something about it, it'll be longer a year from year to year and always to six. When you're talking about this as temporary, not permanent, it's a little play. All I want to do is go on with the little boats and what's going on through the cut, which is about 5%. They caught some 7,400 tons last year, about 4.9% of the then distributed mackerel. In Norway, the small boats are caught by some 14◯17% of all caught mackerel and why should we not be able to distribute these types of boats comparable to percent? Is there something that completely discourages it? I don't feel that this has been logical or forthcoming in the discussion with the executives. As we know, the little boats are fishing in areas where the big ships aren't, so we need to revise them, and I hope they do so on a professional committee. I hope that the top-refering conference of the National boat owners to investigate that they strongly oppose it, such as me, is that the mackerel fishing is going to be number one in hand-and-line boats and fight to get a larger catch department. I feel that they have completely reasoned that there is a reason for this. LS also emphasizes that there was not yet a continuous increase in macroilism, where one group of workers has not been given the opportunity to catch more than has been because of the macroil walking pattern and thus is set aside. They say, with President's permission: ▪ It cannot be regarded as a normal interpretation that the only sources that catch the bottom of the jurisdiction are when it is evident that the species is now studying land in the fishing areas of small boats inside fleas and beaches. I support that this will be in the discussion because I don't think it's possible to say that this process is equal to that of the cry system at all. There are far too few people with too much authority, in my opinion, and there may be primarily expedient. It is also shocking that people will be acting in the same way that the present system, which the nation has criticized most and is one of the things they would like to choose and discuss. I don't think we're in a position to argue in the same way that the saying system that is now in front of the people is criticized. I don't feel responsible, but political views are clearly changing on the other hand, winding off the present system and, on the other hand, continuing on the same path with this and all that could possibly be added to the future. At least I don't like it, and I hope it changes to a job committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent talk, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's bellow, she studied most of the bill, and in fact it has been discussed well in many excellent talks. The frequency is, it's gone to the highest. Minister over, in full agreement with the Constitution and the national law and in accordance with the opinion of the agent of 2010. That was especially two things I cut off in speech. A senator, on the one hand to think of small boats - she came in to make up about 14% of total resources in Norway, but this would be pretty much what got caught last year. What does it look like? A senator thought that it would be reasonable to be assigned to a small boat structure? Hv. A senator then entered the supersized industry, saying that it had gained a tremendous amount of money during the recent losses, and perhaps there was room for it to pay more attention to society. I think we'll just talk about it here in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u134	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As I studied in my speech, regarding the distribution of small boat sailors, it has been suggested from their conclusion that they will prefer to attend 18% of the total share of the revenues of macroil. Since the mackerel is new in the weekend, it walks into the center where little boatmen are rowing, so their experience has recently developed. Therefore, it is not necessarily good to aim at those 5%. Like this morning's moisture. There is the possibility that if you receive such a small amount of money, they will either start renting away or getting involved in expensive purchases, and I don't think that's good for these little makings. They have spoken to 18%, but they have also pointed out that they could approach it somewhere else, e.g. about 14%, as in Norway. Of course, their demands are what they think they can give, but they obviously do. It may not be sacred numbers more than others, but at least I feel that we should take into account how and when the experience is and is developing because it is just too short. Besides, I don't think it's time. We've talked a lot about it here that we don't know anything about the mackerel. I think we should just wait a little bit until we know more about him. - I just have to finish my next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u135	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is a very interesting subject, the part intended for the miniboat design. It's a different approach by the size and species of the fishing fleet how to approach the different tools I'm going to say, the macro. Because it's the highest. Minister and minister. The head of the trade committees are here with us. It would be good to hear their viewpoint on how much leeway is being discussed in the past. The job board will consider this; I can totally agree that the little boats' experience is new, if I can put it that way, but the larger ships. Hv. A senator named the big deed and its profits. I want to ask you why. In answer to this further question, What criteria should we have when we consider the benefits and profits of large production and plan to pay more than others to the community? And what will we do if we are going to be equal in our efforts to help others who have not gained the same amount of money? If she believes that interest is the standard, where does it feel that it should lead to profit, profit, and profit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u136	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm gonna start by answering about the little boats, because I think it's so important. It's an eco-friendly fishing thing, and when we've been talking about the challenges that have been proved to be true, I wondered, " Is this real?'Because we know so little about the mackerel? We don't know if he'll be around here, if he'll be closer or far, for the next six years, no more than we know about the codfish every year, and we have to do research to figure it out. With respect to the profits, it may have happened, and is already in place, and we'll talk about the fishing fees. That my knowledge is to look to a particular step shift when it comes to hunting costs. I don't have numbers in my head about making my own money when it comes to what to pay, the great thing done, but we left greens have had the point of view, in view of how good it is, how it can be paid, that it can pay more than it has been doing. We showed it by our laws, which we also talked about having been able to correct and adapt once experience had been gained. I'd like to finally say, because it's based on a little bit of the case that this has been attributed to the State: I'd like to try it instead of chickening out and think it's one of the reasons to share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u137	V.E.G. President. They say goodbye to 1st. on the matter of Congress for two reasons: On the one hand, presenting a new argument, new information, into the discussion, hoping that they will walk to the Committee to whom the case is discussed, and on the other, expressing their opinion on the case, and that's what I'm doing here. You see, I think this is such a big matter that it is necessary that as most members of the council account for their decision to do so. I have listened to most of the talks given here today, not all but always, and I have to say that I do not have information or arguments that have not been presented here during this discussion. It seems to me that the opinions or opinions of the bill are two ways apart from those that support the bill as it is. I feel that the discussion is of two kinds of root. On the one hand, members of the Parliament have serious doubts about this greeting and fear that there is a permanent possession of great value. I agree with that, so I agree with the argument. paritaprevir It's the Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands. They want to give us maximum clearance to one year, while we get a bed to keep checking the system permanently. I support that view. Since then, another form of criticism has developed. It's that we're increasing the share of the little boats and the whales. paritaprevir In her speech earlier, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir said that in Norway the little boats were getting their share of the macrotics between 14 and 17%, I think I've just noticed, and in this bill, there are about 5%. In other words, people are criticizing the bill on this line or offering options for the suggestions presented here. Why, though, do I fear that the mackerel will be permanently maligned? It is true that we here deal with enormous value. Hv. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir mentioned numbers in that connection, and I listened. But why do I say that there is reason to fear that we are making this permanent possession? In the 3rd. The bill tells us how to handle these trinkets, and it says, by permission of the President: It's part-of-the-art units assigned to Article 4. is temporary and maintains its value for six years from the execution of the law. They are not permitted to be removed, in part or in part, at less than six years'notice. The six-year duration of the labor share is automatically extended by one year at the same time has not been changed by January 1st of each year. We're not assigning to 6 years, we're saying that we can't interfere with the system unless we call it quits. And on top of the above, it's being granted by this law of the greeting, on this court, and thus the head is bitten by shame, so it's very fateful. But why do I say it's hard and hard to get out of this system? It has been reviewed in this discussion, and not only for now but for as long as I remember and have been standing here in a Senate hall - I have attended a council in 1995 and there has been little more than the fishing law and the eating system, and always the defenders have said, "Well, gone to 1. The fishing law. It stipulates the country's share of the resource, a great deal right. Nevertheless, since then a hall was authorized, a pledge was allowed on the quatane. And if you know, when we were sharing here at the end of the last term, about the cost of hunting, the amount of money there, a sudden rise was made up of men -- I could name university professors who've spent this system - and said that it was beginning to interfere with the exclusive rights, with the exclusive rights, because it had created a traditional rights in spite of 1 st. The fish-fishing laws that say we all own them. I have seen it in the past so many years that the exclusive rights of property were growing stronger and established. We went through it when we talked about the laws of water in our day, and then we had them in the back of the 1923 lakes. They said that by the lakes Valgerður by Sverrisdóttir in the bill, and they were very controversial here at the council, they were moving it to the last part of the 20th century to the judgment pitis. And what was that judgment pizza? He was for private rights. I'd like to take another example. When there was a debate over the savings and stock items in the savings fund, I remember, on a committee I was sitting on, that was not an economic and business committee, whatever her name was then - stock items that under law were not allowed to go on purchases and sales, only to take interest in in in in in inflation and no more, it could not be bought with the sale. Nevertheless, these stock items were starting to walk here on the market, they were being offered. And what will happen then? Then experts come into this committee and tell us to members of the Parliament that since the situation has been offered on the market and that some merits have been called, there has been an exclusive right, and there is nothing we can do in spite of what is in the law. I'm referring to the fact that on the one hand, we have fundamental laws, such as the fish - control Act on the national partnerships, and we have the exclusive rights to which there are constantly appeals to the rights and that's what we're creating with this bill in the mackerel. I agree with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, who mentioned earlier in his talk that there was a new species of fish that would not have been present in our ecosystem almost now and that would be an opportunity to keep it out of this controversial system. Why do we not? That, topv. Mr. President is the reason I wanted to leave the subject quietly in this discussion to express these opinions. I think it's a very serious matter, and I think it's a very fateful case because we're taking steps that I'm convinced are going to be very difficult to back up with. In fact, I have faith that there will be two things that will happen in the present century: the second, the democracy, and the direct democracy that will take over and then the exclusive rights will be handled. They'll try to unwind him because he's walking public rights, not just here on earth, but around the world. We should not continue in that course, but we will use this opportunity to find and go other ways. There's been talk here about the fishing fee. We've been arguing about that a lot, and here's another bill on the agenda after this. It's about fishing fees. Many people have talked about the natural cost of fishing, on the one hand, on fish farms in general, and then on the mackerel in particular, which seems to be what they expected. We received one version of how normal it is for television news last night. There was Kristján Loftsson, director of Granda, who used the opportunity to mock workers. I understood his comments that way. He was defending that Grandi pays his owners under the cost of less than 3 billion and raises the government's salary by a third. They were only laughing at the demands of the workers who are struggling to get monthly pay up in three years to 300 o'clock. K. I found it helpful to hear of today's discussion on behalf of both the council and the officials, including the prime minister, who criticized that talk. It was said that this was not appropriate at a time when men were using machines about collective agreements. This is inappropriate at all times, and of course it should not be known. V.E.G. President. It is not my goal to fill the time I have for it. Rather, I wanted to establish a very specific view that I am totally opposed to the fact that we have the greetings and property of this massive resource that the macrois or could become, hopefully, with the seamen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for a shrapnel speech. I'm not gonna argue with what. A senator on the Constitution and the nation's ownership of our resources. We've been discussing the fact that we're taking the mackerel into the system in which it exists, a code system, the code-checking the mackerel. An interesting concept was made in the speech of a man. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, that the trumpet in this discussion was practical. I'm calling it here because it's the key subject. It is the innovation and innovation of the manufacturing equipment, the ships, the fishing instruments, the knowledge and experience of seamen and commercial workers. Hv. paritaprevir The count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson came in secretly and accepted these people, and I wholeheartedly agree with him, so we need to make some adjustments in our terms. I'm going to leave a question here in a previous answer to this: "Easy." In view of the rise that has been in this article and the contribution of an enterprise, does a senator not find it difficult to reason with the results of calmness? By increasing our uncertainty about the code of laws that we need to live in if we enter another system, we increase our uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u139	V.E.G. President. It's a very difficult question, where are these lines cut, the practicality of size on one side, and many small companies in the country's settlements on the other. People have talked about eco-friendly fishing. Men have talked about fishing little boats that bring good catch. It quoted a small boat fishing in a mackerel in Norway, 14◯17%, where they receive their share. These are things that are very difficult to control. The cost of our size can also go to extremes, making it possible for the profit that we make of it, to be exported beyond our own systems. We're seeing the big productions in Iceland that are starting to make a wide range of money from our common resource out of our economy. So it's a question of where these lines intersect. I've been able to contribute to the diversity of fishing roads, want to have many companies, I want to have those in most parts of the country, and fear of the much compression that is becoming and seems to be leading to the progress of men taking this profit, at least in part, and moving it out of our economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u140	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree. Of course, there is practicality in many things other than the size alone. It has been discussed with her and her share of these fishing, such eco-friendly fishing. Later, they caught the mackerel and the big ships. But as far as I can see, it's the will of all people, along with those who follow the bill and the system we have in fishing and processing, to consider the small boat output. Because we're gonna talk about the big talk. In his speech, a senator made a good impression that she was well - equipped for more. What is the basis for this. A senator realizes that we should have, and how should we handle equal charges against the miniboating if we are going to change the taxation or take a catch fee on these companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u141	V.E.G. President. Now I have to admit that I don't trust myself to give any intelligent answer in that regard. I don't have these sizes in my head, or I don't have a clear understanding of the matter that I trust to answer. But I reiterate the proposal I support here, in the light of the conflictes that are about this system, and hence on this bill, that we give ourselves a better time, that we take advice. Yeah. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands Marcusdóttir, and we provide these sources for one year but no longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u142	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here at the end of the discussion and thank you for the objective discussion on the bill. It has been found that it seems that it seems to each one about a number of things in the bill, but I can't hear better than anyone would agree on the importance of enforcing the national resource constitution and I think it's very important that it be done and taken care of. In other respects, though, there have been several minorities and suggested that in these and present circumstances, it is not the time to share the mackerel into the system that we know best and that has yielded to us most in the past few decades the most of its national efficiency and increase in income for the nation's population. There's been a lot of questions and other ideas. It is true that according to the opinion of the emissary Generalist, whom he proposed last summer, he felt absolutely clear that from 2011 onward, the legislature authority had been obliged to share a macroil or a special law, as here is being made. You have also wondered that 5% of those who go to hand and line boats is too small. I'd like to protest and believe that this is a very well-worked group. If we specifically compare it with the share of other species and the fishing previously given here and significant numbers are being taken to this group. It has also opened up during the discussion that this group has not been given as much time to get hunting experience. Still, this is a six - year period, and it is true that many initially felt that fishing was difficult and difficult. They needed pioneers who were willing to spend their money and time developing their fish, just as they were in the great category. It wasn't as easy as they've let it up here, that it's just come and jump into the boats. Initially, these were mixed fishing at herring and mackerel, but men had to develop them and experiment with the related costs to master the fishing that we have certainly seen to be very large in recent years. I must say, as it is, from the fundamental equation we must look to, it is wise to share in this situation and do it over the whole line. This could be pointed out to those who have already spoken that the small boats may be gaining a higher price or the highest price that will occur primarily when a person can plan his fishing, i.e. ... witha share. This does not happen in July or early August when the mackerel is less valuable than it will be in late summer or even in September. When it comes to sharing, man can organize the fishing and achieve maximum prices. Finally, I think that when we ask if our current time is more correct than that of others, we must look to an agent's opinion. Of course, I also look to the government's contract that we're going to continue using the metropolitan system to get the maximum payoff from using the fish stocks in Iceland. When we are the best water source in the world with the system we have built up in the past few decades, we must ask ourselves: " Why should we not make the same use of this structure as the rest of our institutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u143	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1166, which is 692nd, a bill to correct a change in law No. 74/2012, for hunting fees. The bill suggests that fishing costs will be fixed in the next three years of fishing in the same way as in the current fishing year 2014 ◯2015. This means that the required price for fishing becomes a bit higher than in the current fishing year, but in reality it remains physically unchanged, using the same methodology to determine the price. At that time, the principle was taken that the cost was taken into account by fluctuations in the survival of marine export companies. The improved EBT remuneration of the enterprises, or pure profit, in line with the criteria agreed to be calculated from last year, therefore yields increased income to the state funds this year. This means that the expenditure calculated for bullfish and fish updrafts correspond to the specific proportion of the so - called pure profits in the marine future both in fishing and in the processing of the Habitat report, Hagnar fishing and processing. The bill explains that based on the 2013 report, and provided total volumes will be the same as proposed for the fishing programme in the current fishing year, the bill can be estimated by the legislation that total revenues for fishing will be about 10.9 billion dollars. Thus, the total financial height will be determined, as did last year as 35% of the total profit of the total profit, i.e. EBT, on fishing and at 20% of the profits in fish farming, according to the Iceland Habitat report, Hagnar fishing and processing, calculated on the other hand, for bottom fish and for map fish. All benefits of flour and plastics are calculated as production of marine fish as well as 22% of profits in cryo-frigeration, which takes into account the freezing of an increasing part of the sea-infested fish in recent years and provides food for human consumption. The bill suggests that it will be a hunting commission that will determine the cost of hunting on each crops every year based on the rules of the bill, which are the same methodology as last year. From this amount, the deduction point of the bill, which is largely unchanged in its contents from the previous year. It is the so - called free income market and, on the other hand, a temporary decrease in debt per provision of temporary II in the law, which is assumed to be about 1.5 billion. During the next year of fishing, the income of a government fund would be at 9.4 billion dollars. The changes suggested in the bill are mainly technical in order to try to improve the pressures of the budget and I will specifically explain them. At that time, the articles of the fishing budget, which have proved to be insurmountable and will not be carried out. The return of the fees is due to some changes in the calculation of the currency. The debt payoff given for six years was now two years left. This is a rule by which all classes of Congress back then agreed to respond because of the circumstances of bank collapse and economic crisis. Some have chosen to call this a moral problem, but all agreed at the council at the time that we had to respond to the situation. I think it is important to make a special point that the law will pass away after two years, and I don't suggest that the extension has been a few. The bill suggests laying of the two - division of fishing fees into a general and specific price, but instead one catch fee will be taken up. At the same time, it is ensured by the bill that there will be a minimum, a type of floor, i.e. so that the price will never be lower than 5.5 kr. on so - called eco-efficiency of cod, or on every kilogram of the land, unscrupulous catch in cod. This assumes that the price will never be lower than about 4 billion dollars. This means that the idea behind the general fishing cost is maintained, i.e. that there should always be a minimum but the application of a single price simplified. So there are two steps the legislatator needs to go through to determine and to measure the pressures of hunting costs. On the one hand, the sum of the total budget I've been considering. On the other hand, a decision to balance the cost is made on different types of fishing, rather than on different types of fish. It is very important that this is done in such a reasonable and natural way, and it is possible to ensure that the recovery does not work too hard on individual sources. The fishing committee, which operates under the warrant on fishing costs and when the government to advise has long worked on the aim of developing ways to ensure that, according to the best possible option, the balance of the fishing fees is based on reasonable standards. This has been done by developing in cooperation with the Ministry on the rules for the provision of the so - called crops proposed by the bill that the beginning of each fishing year will be determined in advance to meet the balance of costs during the coming fishing year. With the bill, each fish stock will receive a unique crop of species, which is the rate of fishing costs per kilogram of its population relative to the cost of fishing per cod. Expansion on the recovery capacity of major species of fish is outlined in the bill's explanation for a more detailed explanation. It also attributes the main purpose of living in terms of producing calculated yields for the fishing of individual crops. The method is based on the implementation of specific income and expenditure data. Incomes are calculated from species of fish according to their registered valuables. At the same time, the cost of pay due to crews is withdrawn, which is calculated as a specific share of food prices and, on the other hand, a narrowly defined variable spending, i.e. the cost of oil, maintenance of fishing vessels, fishing tools, freezing and packaging of ships due to transport and land management costs. The cost is equal to that of fish species, in line with the share of food prices to land at the end of each fishing trip. This is by no means the calculation of traditional advances, much less profit. However, having the cost so narrowly defined makes it look like a mirror as much as possible, changing the cost of fishing on individual crops and simplifying the implementation of calculations where possible. In order to determine the calculated futures of the fishing industry, data from the Fishing Institutes, on the other hand, on surviving days, and on the other hand, data on agricultural resources and valuables is needed for each fishing trip. At the same time, data has to be sent from commercial fishing vessels and is expected in the bill that the benefits will be obtained along with commercial tax returns. However, this will not happen until the third and final fishing year that these laws will apply to developing and getting the data correctly as outlined in the bill. In place of this, the first two fishing years of the year must be obtained from the intelligence of Iceland's Hagur magazine, fishing and processing. It is undeniably undeniably true that the data set out in the two years of pay are no longer new than the bill assumes. So I give a high priority on the evidence right here, which is foreordained to succeed. Thus, after the end of the bill, new and more accurate data should be available to determine the pressures of the fishing costs for the future. One of the most important changes the bill contains is that a special additional charge will be paid for a mackerel as a 10 k. per kilogram. This proposal is closely related to the proposal made by the General Assembly for the publishing of a license total resources in macroil, as well as its exchange into financial units that will be specific and subject to specific time targets and we have just completed 1. About. The bill explains that the additional fee can be studied about 1.5 billion in 2015, which comes in addition to the fishing fee as per the bill. The charge is due to the distribution of the labor departments to those who are involved with the sharing of macroil just to be used by that share. As to the evidence of the cost and the work at its shape, I refer to a discussion on the shareability of the macrosil stock, which is the 691 Parliament. Another important suggestion is to pick up the market fee, which includes monthly fishing costs and the first month's pay for the last month's fishing. For example, on March 1, due to the catch in January, the date of pay would be the date. This aims to ensure that fishing costs are set up as close as possible to the real time and close to the time when income for the stock market will fall into operation. This is an attempt to respond to criticism directed toward stress and to collect fees according to current laws. As a result of this altered design, some technical changes in the law's directives regarding a so-called holiday target and the reduction of the fishing fee due to the racquet, as I have previously taken steps in my case. The Declaration of the Government Progress and Independence Class strategies strategists strategists strategists strategium strategium strategists In addition, it describes the willingness to promote reconciliation for the future marine organization by continuing with the proposal of the so - called Syndicate on a review of the Law on Fishing Government. Clearly, the work that has been done during the terms of my Ministry to follow this goal will not lead to a change in law. This has a translation in which it was assumed that the preparation of Parliamentary terms would be an important part of agreement on fiasco use. However, the changes proposed by the bill are thought to ensure prejudiciality, especially due to the binding of the pay period to three years. It is my hope that the bill, if it is the law, can become a step forward to better and predictable legislation on the control of fishing and fishing costs. This is a bill package that contains the financial and economic expenses for this. Otherwise, I refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed discussion on the subject and explain its contents. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u144	Mr. President. I just want to make some changes in the discounts for the smaller and medium-sized outputs, but it actually walks on the whole line. The bill presents a tribulation on a so - called vacation market, so instead of having a $250 fortune for all fishers. K. A discount will be met with smaller productions, with less than 1 billion paying back. K. In the fishing season, the price of a fish has a right to a hundred. K. decrease. Free income was about 250 million. K. but it will be along with this change of 40◯50 billion. K. every year. Now it's got the highest. Ministers, and others in the management team, speak a great deal of the changes made in hunting costs turning much towards reducing the costs of small and medium-sized production, to the point where their changes are going. How can this be achieved when you take the free income market that was up to 30 tons and a half dollars to about 65 tons, and you go in the direction of 100 fars. K. A discount if they pay less than a million in hunting fees? Of course, that means in money, as you can see here, a much lower discount. Are you not speaking against the reality of the bill? In fact, it is not taken at all in my problem of fishing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for recording this case. During the implementation of the bill, due to its technical changes, changing from two expenditures to one, and taking up a local payment, the Ministry's assessment was that it was comparable. Since then, we have been considering it, and there are indications that the discount is certainly greater for those who pay less. But if that's the case, I'm more than ready to look into the arrangement. The height was 250 ounces. K. Last year and I believe we have to spend only time with a professional committee and the Ministry to review the wisdom in this. It was not my intention to change in any way from what is in the current year; the discount should be done exactly the same. There are many indications that he is somehow lower, and I am more than willing to look at it and thank you for the opportunity to mention it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u146	Mr. President. It is always enjoyable when you receive a positive response from the highest level. Secretary of the sea. I'd like this to be considered in even greater context. If there is a wish to look to the cost of size, of course, that it would be cheaper to get each of the cods for the larger boats than the smaller, I would like to hear the highest attitude. Minister to some step-by-step fee. With the bill, and I'm not saying that I write up on this methodology, the reality is that it's a much more like tax returns than the idea of resource use. Is it not possible, then, to look to the income tax system? We have a population of stepwise income taxation systems that would be unable to have a step shift, e.g. Three categories, with the development, like the income tax system? In this way, people would respond to my view of making things that I think are completely valid, that they are unable to pay the same fishing fees as large icebox leaders. Why not examine it? There would be no need to mean that the overall price would be reduced, but they could be more reasonable, I think, by stepping them along the fishing categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u147	A respectable president. At the same level, we agree that there is a price paid for the resource and everyone sits at the same level. Many of us feel that it is very important to defend our diversity, and the person standing here has spoken up many times. That's why it's in there, and we need to see how it's coming out. That is why it is worth a million dollars. In fact, it actually comes to those who pay a million or less. We need to think about that. That's why the overall discount is my fee because it goes to people who pay more than one million. For the rest, this price is a price for access, and it is normal for everyone to pay the same price. It's also known, and I know why. A senator knows this from the work of the job trade committee during the last terms when we had a very good analysis of the different abilities of companies in different systems to meet the fishing costs they were seeking to get on, that it showed that a very large proportion of the miniboats could not possibly live under it, and, in fact, a very large part of the other system as well. Yet, it was that in the small system, smaller system, there were structures and ships that had the highest produced by all. Should they pay less if they are able to make much more of it than others can? I don't think it's equal or fair in it, so I think the key is, as we've been developing, to find as accurate a way to assess the value of each species of fish and its profitability as it is based on the fishing costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u148	A respectable president. First, let me mention that, of course, it is very important that large issues that come to the council will be given a good time for discussion and treatment. It is a great deal of business to come to the council now that will require much work and self - control in the committee work. So let me mention this: I want us to remember the more part of the council that during the last term, we were highly critical of the ruling government. It's a matter of concern to me, on the big issues that are coming to our committee now, why. Business committees, that time is not great, but we will try to do our best. A great deal of agreement has been made on the committee to do well and respond well to extra meetings. But this, of course, is an encouragement to the Ministers, and I actually felt like removing the stone when a Minister at a certain Ministry office was sending an energy bar to officials of another government to encourage them to do more work, a power bar that might, in view of this, might have been a better use for home bridges in finishing things earlier. That's what they told them to hunt. With them, like the second taxation, footprints are extremely sensitive and fine lines. We're talking about a construction work programme in the Icelandic community that we tax more than other sectors in this regard. There has been an agreement that there is no abnormal need to tax such an article above other articles in view of the use of a limited resource owned by the nation. It's a pretty long story. It's been another tens of years since the Committee of Resources came to that conclusion. The level of taxation has been debated since. We saw the effects of this taxation being made very clear when changes were taken and stocked up in the existing fishing fees, sort of jumped and reinvented. Then I'm referring to the changes we made when we dropped our relative fishing fees on the bullfish but more proportionately increasing on the up-front business. Today, we can easily see the consequences of the one change. It caused an investment to start again in the bullfish. She had stopped because the fishing fees were just too high. But, fortunately, she has also continued in the upkeep sector. It was managed to adjust this way that large investments have begun in the fishing industry in order to avoid making long - term, the greatest investments we have seen for a very long time. This, of course, indicates that we are on the right track. However, as we add up expenses to the article, we have not diminished her ability to make the necessary investments in order to maintain our competitive stand. We are deeply competitive in foreign markets. It will be the responsibility of the Committee to review the prime minister and evaluate this position. There are, however, several increases in the bill on individual species but, like, at the highest level. A minister entered the bill based on the same criteria that we used last year. But we all know that there is a problem with the collection we're building the future burden of hunting costs. I know it's the highest. Ministers know what is best for humans, and therefore he responds by changing in the bill for the data collection, which is very good, but we know that the criteria we have been using and the data we have been using are not intended for this purpose. Thus, some changes in economic data are now made by the change in gangs and fortifications, which, in the same methodology, give rise to a number of species. This involves going over and seeing how the reaction is, and it takes time when the problem is that we're always working with some old data. It may be too much of a matter to go into, and as well as to refer here, which has often been discussed. However, the bill responds on the basis of the highest standards. Minister and that's very good. The mass of fishing roads has been here for a brief discussion, and I think it's very important. But we also know that overfishing will result in compression, and there is a degree of compression to take place. It may be inevitable that eco-efficiency will continue at this level, but it is really important for me to maintain the multiplicity of the system. It may well be that by doing so, we do not achieve any maximum economic situation based on the operation of each unit in the system, but there are many other views. We've been talking about the urban and professional goals, etc, but no less what our resource economists have. In the United States, what is more important is the complexity of the modern - day fishing industry, which is part of its rapid adaptability to changing needs on the market. In other words, we are on the lead in dealing with the changing demand in foreign markets. We are quick to adapt to the change in needs, and the variety is the main factor in this. This must be kept in mind when we may give up something else for maintaining our variety and preventing the compression from becoming too much. Other changes in the bill are very positive, and I quote it to the highest level. A minister came on which we can call the price of hunting fees, i.e. Fishing costs are paid according to landy catch. In other words, we are not the same as we have previously been demanding even advance on fishing fees, i.e. but they have to pay the price of hunting fees. It is especially important for SMEs who may not have as much money as they do in their business as in larger companies not to have to tie money in this way. It is a system similar to that we know of the worthy tax system, this is a well - known collection method, it is simple and does not require overwork or oversight. That's where we're entering a system that's known and it's all through, so I'm celebrating this change. I think it's really important, especially with the diversity I came in on. It will not be avoided to wonder, " Where to calculate the cost of hunting? ' We've been in my opinion with a fearful bastard in our calculus in recent years, where we've been trying to mix the produce of fishing and then the processing part. As a result of informal work that took place last year, the solution to the future must be that we always counted fishing on the side of the ship. So access to hunting and thus using the resource would be the basis for future fishing costs. We cannot be punishing those who make an abundance and increase in value in the land for doing so. It's also so hard to pull a line into the sand about where to end that taxation. Are we going to go into the fish camp and put money on the fish camp or extra tax? They go out and buy fish and win it, flinch it, and sell it at the fish store. I can give you an example of a company in the Western Islands that specializes in producing spicy herrings for the Finland market. They buy the supplies from an up-to-date industry in the Western Islands, which is an export value of 200 billion. K. That's 15 people who, after work in this company, are sold out to Finland for about 500 million. K. Are we going to go fishing on this company? Its manager told me: " If I did, I would simply take the company to Finland and set up my work there. I might as well do it. Even if I did, I would get some willies. Then our export value would be only 200 billion. K. Instead of 500. There are many of these. When we're messing with the processing part and the valuable thing, it's hard to pull a line into the sand and tell us where to stop, where to stop. We may also be driving up the increase in valuables out of the country, as it would just be cheaper and more practical for companies to produce it in a foreign country. I now talk about it more as tax than some resource fee. I think it has become widely accepted that the search for the resource charge and this so-called resource resource use has not been established, i.e. any of the slides this brings out of normal processing. This involves a wide variety of subjects, a result of which are all too different between years and even within the year. Let us just admit that this is a taxation on the article. Then we come to the question of harmony. I think it's the highest. A minister has answered very well earlier when he was reviewing how we could maintain our variety. While larger productions can pay more than that, do small and medium-sized production costs cover the costs? Of course, there must be a measure of equality. And it's like the highest. A minister came into them has seen in the data that have come to the employment committee on this matter at an early stage that it may vary considerably within different types of design. There's something that needs to be balanced in this. The representatives of the national submarine union often claim that they are catching the most valuable fish, and I think it can be a lot of trouble. They have the most practical structure. There is a view that is being maintained, and we need to consider it. But on the ground, I'm all for it, because we look into it with just the view that the variety is an essential part of our system in so many ways. In this way we must not place hunting costs that are very disturbing to the folly we see in this article today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u149	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change in the price of hunting laws. I can first agree with that. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who I don't do all equal, that this case is coming out pretty late. I'm sorry, we don't have much time if the Parliament's staff plan is to stand up to handle this big case with all the others waiting to do. So a minister may be able to bring big matters in advance so that such matters get as best coverage and an sufficient amount of time can be afforded to go into the sewing of the envelopes and to work on the committee, so that an informed decision can be made thereafter. In answer to the highest order. A minister spoke about step - change and that it could not be looked at and talked about the fact that it had become one fishing fee today instead of general and special. I think there's a big flaw in this bill to disappear from having the general fishing fee, which was over 9 p.m., so it depends on the expenses it is supposed to make in terms of the cost around the article and the like. I can't say that it's better to go the taxation routes that are actually going, and that they abandon the ideologies that were and are in the law on today's fishing fees. I believe that it will be much easier for the article to include in its business a number of extra costs, making it less profit at the end of the day, thus reducing fishing costs especially on those who can charge a number of costs before making a profit. I can say that they are on the same schedule, and that's good. It was in man to receive tax and Fish Office partners and Habitats at the time when they were struggling to get previous fishing fees through, but now it seems that the tax is involved in making it easier to have your contract pay based on information about each company, which, in fact, does not come to a complete drop, but in the future. The fish industry also includes the profits, and I think it is justified when all of this is assessed. I know that there has been a lot of criticism from the seamen in the mackerel fishing business, with both fishing and processing, that exchanges to sailors are distorted, since the fishing business sells itself at a lower price and then takes out the profits in the processing process. So I think it's right to have my work done inside this model. I also believe there are different types of fishing. V.E.G. In answer to earlier, a minister said that he would review what is presented here, that he would actually lower the internal discounts and had declined before this government began. I think there are a number of ways in which my projects can be met, whether by step - change of currency or by a certain amount of free income that would be remembered by smaller deforestation. I hope that a minister will demonstrate his intention to meet the types that really need a reexamination of hunting, the largest of which, of course, do not need it. Seafood companies have been in the discussion because of large profits, such as HB Grandi hf. where they pay twice as much money as they pay in hunting fees. I don't think it makes sense that companies act like that and that they don't have to pay more of this common resource than they do, considering what they pay to their shareholders. This is not acceptable. This year, the fishing project pays over 9 billion dollars, which will no doubt become more because more fishing is at hand. Considering that fishing costs pay 10.8 billion per year for the next fishing year is not a major change from the end of the year. I believe we can make more money from the fishing road to the nation, but I also believe we can't look into the exchange of the fishing costs. On the basis of my experience, I believe that there will be even more different types of design and meet them. In the end, the entire article can pay more than certain portions of it today. Such is the reality. You've been talking a lot about counterfeit products that have fixed and a lot of multiple effects in their areas and are important, and I think we have to look to them, because I've always been a more fundamental advocate of changes in the fishing system as such than the fact that fishing costs solve conflict. I will never write down that hunting fees, however high, will solve disagreements on the unjust saying of the saying. I believe that there must be an self-infliction of the dinner system, and then there is what the nation should get into the resource resource business and that different instruments and abilities of the article should be seen each time. Also, ocean areas need to be watched wide and wide throughout the country and what their means are for their communities to live under the resource resources and how it returns to the sealands. All of this is something that humans naturally reason about and look into, and many people have not been able to get their resources back to their communities well enough. It is also with many other causes, and it is in the hands of politicians each time what they do with their income and who enjoy it. I believe that the shell system itself is a subject that we have to deal with, to achieve a higher resource value, it is the subject each time according to the interest of the article. Of course, it would be very good if we could get ourselves a resource - oriented thought in this bill, with the advance view of the particular needs to be examined, and to meet the attitudes of my outputs that are difficult to pay on the same thing every kilogram of cod and the gross. Such is the reality. If I only get to the mackerel charge, 10 K, it raises a lot of questions. The Makri is today in a cod factor of 0.41%, with a view to permanent prices on the quota, which have since 2,400k. in 3,000K, and if the permanent price in the mackerel is this proportion, that's 10 k. Pretty little. In recent years, large structures have been made like Samherji, et cetera. Weighted to photograph Entires at 100 bucks. the kilogram. Of course, it can be said that it is temporary, that humans do not all rise, but the Greenlands pay today 20 k. the kilogram, or the produce that uses cherry macrovota, so when you compare it, I feel like 10 k. not walk up. I've been in my case before, in my case, why is it not a catch value, and I've taken some of the adage value in the macro, and so I've met the fact that making plans for macroil sale, as in last year, there are fluctuations there. Over a period of time, the price of the miniboats was higher than that of the large structure, and for the fluctuations I think it would be right to have a share of the resources from the sea and not to make the macroil, as we have been doing today. Today, we are faced with the fact that sea areas can be divided into three categories in Iceland. It is the seas that have large and vast surrogacy in their rural communities, where there is good walking and no complaint. They're well prepared for hunting costs and higher fishing costs than they can say. And then there's the medium outlets, maybe family companies, third squad, they're struggling to make ends meet and they're having a really hard time. And it's the least of the designs that are in many of the places that are classified as broken - down, completely submerged, and never know how to keep them going. [[The president calls.]] I'm talking about a step-traveled fishing fee, but the biggest projects can certainly pay more than they do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u150	A respectable president. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken in this discussion, it is desirable that the bills will come in as soon as possible to have enough time to review them; I know that a professional committee is powerful and will conscientiously and carefully do so. Then it must be said and reiterate that this fishing bill is, in part, more comfortable for a discussion on the Committee that it is exactly the same as last year, and there is no change in that. That is why it may be easier to compare; the changes there are mainly technical and, more importantly, for improvement, such as the standard and data collection which ensures that we can produce new data in the future, which strengthens the foundation. Hv. A member of the council has discussed a number of stages of pay, and he has often talked about paying taxes in this regard. It is true that most economist economists and experts who have discussed the matter simply say and claim that there are no resources left in this system - that does not apply to the mackerel - and if you want to go on the tax route, the tax system is the easiest to use. In contrast, this is a price paid by men for using the resource, and we use these resources to identify as the most reasonable way between fish species. Then it's important, I think, that there's a lot more than we can afford, which, according to all public data, is remembered by the holiday goal we've discussed before. If you want to take the tax route, there's a very different approach, because this is a price for using the resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u151	Mr. President. It has now been spoken of by many who are familiar with the fact that this is a tax, not a resource. There are some of the resources this is based on, and there is no distinction between smaller designs and larger ones. Why, then, should we not have some means of success in various structures? Why, then, could it not be connected in some way; because of the largest economic value, to fetch a pound of cod in the ocean, why couldn't you look to it in any way? These numbers are all available in the Haust lab, should be, or information from the governor of state tax. I'll throw it out like this. I'm not gonna say it. I'm not gonna say it. It is possible to look for these ideologies, and it is always a matter of decision making on how high the cost is to be. I can see that it can also be looked to as to what each species should give but should not be able to look at things from different categories of fishing? Then it could be accepted, and I think, overall, the total pay that would come to the State could be similar, even though there was an intervention within the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u152	A respectable president. We discussed this only earlier: Within the categories, there are simply a wide variety of goods, and within the assigned class. A senator wants a lower degree of justice, just as he does with the most profit. Is that true of reasonableness? I don't think it's the most reasonable thing to do with paying that price. Then we have income taxes on the outside, a income tax system that takes that normal share in the profits of the companies. I think this in itself may be the explanation for that, at least I can't answer it better. That's what I'm talking about. A senator came along with the mackerel, that it was normal to take some amount of market value or value from sea to sea, or something like that, has been said that the highest price anyone could get is 70 k. for kilograms. Here's a proposition for 10 bucks. which over six years yield 9 billion and make up a substantial amount of money, one and a half billion a year. In case of a moment. A senator is wondering about some other number, what evidence does he have that this figure should be higher or lower even?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u153	Mr. President. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister has studied what this is like in the countries around us, such as Norway, Greenland, and the Faeroes. It would be fascinating to know whether he knows those numbers in this comparison and to mention some numbers. Entries have had auctions on mackerel, and there the production has been entrusted to pay up to 80 cents. for kilograms of macroil. Greenlanders are paying 20 bucks. Then you ask yourself, " Am I not dealing with parties at the same market?'shouldn't this be similar? A senior minister points out that many in the small system so called are making a lot of money, and I'm not going to swear for it. I know that, of course, you're right. [[The president calls.]] But it would be wise to stick to the old fishing fees and have a special fishing fee, with a minimum of 10 bucks paid.?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u154	President. I believe that it would be best to offer up the quota, and we can put it into words so that it would decide what it would pay for, what it might call, what it cost, what it is, what it is, to decide for itself what it might offer or what it would be able to pay for every kilo that was given up from the sea. That's my opinion. But that's not what we're talking about here, because we're talking about fishing and we'll stick to that subject. It seems to me that now I think that what I think was introduced last, or at any rate, I feel that it is being established, and especially when you think this is going to apply for three years, as I understand, that the fishing fee is being decided by EBT, which is pure profit, and then it has become a much more tax than part of the cost of making out. In my mind, there is a difference between whether fishing costs are part of the cost of making out or whether they are paid at profit. Is it possible for the senator to ponder, as well as to wonder, " Is this any different than I do? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u155	Mr. President. Of course, there is a huge difference between the methodology used today and the one used previously. I think most people call it a kind of tax collector on the move. We know that it is much easier to set a number of costs before EBT arrives, which they still enjoy. This has been done over the years with regard to the income tax, and over the years it has not paid much income taxes because it has been easy to hide in costs. I think there was some information that says that for ten years prior to a crash, the country paid an average of about 1 billion per income tax a year. I don't have the guts to swear for it, but I still remember that it was on average 1 billion a year on the basis of which it paid for ten years before a crash. I'm afraid it affects this methodology that it's easier for a person to avoid paying dues to tax returns.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u156	A respectable president. Hv. A senator put just what was going on in my head, i.e. that when this method is used, there is a danger of making these preparations - if I may use it as a word, a respectable president - at some cost. At that time, my profits will be reduced to pay hunting fees. That's exactly what I thought was the fact. It seems to me in this bill that there is an enormously complex and a lot of information that needs to be collected and given or something. Someone said that there was almost a new tax returns that would have to be filled out so that this method could be used. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator know anything better than I do?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u157	Mr. President. Of course, this calls for a great deal of extramium, which is always needed, whether it is the current law by the methodology involved in the calculation of hunting costs or this. The tax, the Habitat, and the Fish Room work together to keep up with this information and that on tax returns a field will be available to inform about the operation of the target in order to build it up on this payment. I'd like to point out, because it's beginning to look like a tax, that it's a known phenomenon that by the end of the year, people go into heavy investments to avoid paying as much tax, which they get rid of on the other side of the New Year's Eve. There are a number of these things I think you can smell, and Iceland is a genius in avoiding paying taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u158	A respectable president. The first thing I really want to do is celebrate what I felt was in a lawsuit. paritaprevir My daughter's Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands, what I thought was a change of mind to these fishing costs. She is beginning to realize, a change from the last term, that certain structures do not carry even the fishing fees laid on this bill. I'd like to recall, in order to document this, that if government policy during the last term had gone by, today would probably have been a little over a hundred billion. And I suppose so. The senator's extra stress on the big projects, and the up-fronting companies would now lean pretty much there. There's gonna be a lot of talk here about making money in the fishing road, and I'd like to ask you which one. A senator's details. Granda is often referred to in that context. That's because Grandi is a company that's on the market that the public can invest in and there are thousands of people who have invested in the company plus the pension fund, which is why they're all numbered at that company's table. It was paid out, if I remember correctly, 2.7 billion now and it's spoken of as being very overworked. I want to ask you why. A senator: If she were one of the thousands of Icelanders and our pension system had placed some money in Granda, bought a stock, what would she have considered normal, and what would her expectations of getting in the interest of those shares of her money, what would it pay for her in the past year in the form of interest of that investment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u159	Of course, there is always room for debate about how much money to pay on this article. I believe the profits for society and the nation are taking rather than for the stockholders who own stocks in the businesses and big companies such as Granda, who have been much for discussion and pay twice as much in interest. I'm not going to tell myself what requirement I would make for a person to make money out of some company. We know that there are many ways to make money. They may be 3.5% and 10% respectively. I don't think it's surprising that a business in the fishing grounds pays so much money to shareholders while they can't pay decently to fish farmers and give them ice picks to mind, so they can't pay more than that without complaining about it. I feel that I would not accept as part of the nation that no higher fishing costs were paid. In terms of my change of mind in these matters, I would like to make clear that we emphasized that there were discounts, which we talked about, based on the ongoing experience of these smaller boats, and that we were about to increase and increase the cost. Today, this government has decided to practically wipe it out. We can meet some smaller projections by raising the payoff target substantially.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u160	The value of medium-sized fishing fees, the magnitude of the discount, is very low. Hv. A senator has to remember that today's fishing fees will probably remember, except for a little at a hundred billion dollars. and sees that everyone gets hurt. It's not easy to find out why. When it comes to the interest of making money, there is a senator. It can be understood as if she prefers that the entire nation's development will become a state run, not normal company paying its shareholders money, whether it is the public or who it is, of course, it's always public or pension funds that invest in the companies, until a certain percentage has been taken, and even a very rich percentage, of the economy. Hv. A senator spoke of a normal crop of fruit production of 3.5 and 10%, which was during the discussion. I think I'm right when I say that the money Grandi now paid to its shareholders, thousands of Icelanders from Pension and Others, studied about 3.5% of the stock value, i.e. If you bought a million shares, the fruitage would be 3.5%. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Where, then, does the pain line lie? [[The president calls.]] Where is the motivation for public, pension fund, and others to invest in their jobs when the profit of their money is no more than this? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, that's the average way we're trying to find our way. [[The president calls.]] We need to keep in mind when it comes to making money that it is not just some simple and raw amount but that it is a product of the money that people have put in the company. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u161	President wants to remind you. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u162	Mr. President. I'm not gonna take the job here to be Granda Corp's guardian, there's gotta be others to do. I am the kin to protect public interests, therefore, I protect the company first that the company pays fair hunting fees, pays fair pay to his workers in agriculture, and pays a fair income tax to society. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Then, when you see what is left, they can use that excess as they want, whether it is catching a whale and gathering it in a freezer or doing something else. It's just that way. But I don't think it's our job to be our elected generals to worry about what these companies are paying to do for the stockholders of these companies. It's not our job to involve us. National interests come first and the profit of their resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u163	V.E.G. President. Once again, at the General Parliament's Summit on Fish Cost, for a second or third time, it's called a Second or Third Amendment of the Hunting Act, which was first adopted by law No. 74/2012. It can be said that in the remaining 18 days of Congress, the matter is a little late. In turn, we are continuing to work with our means of living or obtaining so that the change is just less than last year. Still, it is a big, complicated task to go through. As I've sometimes said, some special paper I don't know how to mention for the Excel documents if they wanted to set it all up and have the numbers on the screen and see what it would do if they were raised or dropped, etc. Thus, during the more than one month of the next session, we are under the job of a professional health committee and might as well keep up with our savings. Of course, the reason for this bill is, as I talked yesterday about the mackerel, that the government had the policy of changing the fishing system and taking the hunting law and having this one law. Then they planned to change the fishing industry, as mentioned earlier, because of a conflict between the government parties, and that is why it did not contain a bill. Then, in order to create this bill for a change in hunting fees, it was adopted in order to set the long-term costs, three years, as presented here, because in the current law, there is only a centennial number that applies to September 1 of this year. It is therefore necessary to change the law. I reiterate that it's a big, complicated thing and it's hard to go to their individual teams, and we may not have time for it either with 1st. Where there is communication to be made, and with members of the committee, listen for the viewpoints presented. Then the case is sent out for review and sent to the stakeholders the reviews and come as guests to the meeting. It often comes from even the best information, real - time information, when even the most recent numbers are generated from enterprises, from the source, from the source, and are processed from it. A respectable president. We did it first in the last government's history, that if I remember correctly, fishing costs were first applied to 2002. In the time of the last government, we changed them and took up the special fee and raised the fishing fees. I've often said that when the director of a professional committee, when there were certain members to explain their case and to throw up on a tent at the company's committee, account meeting, almost as they did from the previous day, I thought it best to continue working on the case accordingly. A respectable president. In the past, I have stated in this discourse that the Habitat's work data on the survival of fish and processing, which has been done for decades in a clear way, so that the years could easily be compared, were never thought of as a tax stock or as a stock for the stress of fishing costs or anything else. They were theoretical information, statistics, of utmost importance. So now I welcome the programs offered on the bill, although they do not take effect until the last year, i.e. In the 2017 fishing year, the executives are obliged to provide certain tax contributions, as the government would like to have it, since the previous year. As soon as legal tax returns appear in the fall of the year only in these cool tax returns, which shows some particular feature of the company's business, another field showing this factor and the government taxpayer just runs out a conversation from that field and that's the result, that's the strain and we charge the fees from it. There will be a great improvement, a respectable president, and there would be no criticism of our work during the last term of making a fishing fee. This is just natural development in creating data, having new and fresher and better, to add to the fishing fees that all classes here at the Council agree to agree to add and everyone has concluded in their national meetings to add a modest fishing fee for the use of this common resource of the country, and hopefully it will be the arrangement which first became part of the constitution. A respectable president. This is an improvement, as well as a result of a fishing fee on September 1 fishing grounds being calculated quickly and it's just going to fall into bankruptcy soon afterwards, but will be a monthly fee. At present, companies may have to put out large sums of money to pay, perhaps in most cases, they may not have to borrow money, or they may need to borrow from their bank, and those who make the most of it are the financial institutions. And I just have to say, as it is, I believe that the profits you make are better off in other places than as payment costs when companies borrow money to pay for hunting expenses. That is why I feel that the fee is monthly and will be paid in the following month. It means, more dignified, the situation is really good in hunting and processing, and even in Eastern Europe, if we take the ocean fish and we get high prices, high fishing costs or higher. But if somewhere, at present in Eastern Europe, it is our main markets for most of the seawaters, then the fishing rate is just lower. Of course, it's only fair that it comes in. It is not natural for a respectable president, that due to two years ago, there will be payment, even in a year of leanness and sadness, there will be fishing because of a record or two years earlier. So, as I said earlier, the fishing fee is still being implemented by technical change and better and more modern data. The survival parameters, or the survival factors, changed last year, were fixed crown counts - aren't we for the first time this year to get a hunting fee after the rain? - is also an improvement in my opinion, instead of the cod readings because they don't give the complete picture. But what may be the worst thing about efficiency is that there may be only one or two men who have it properly in their head how to calculate it. I've seen calculations that a hunting board operates, and I can just say just as it is, I don't understand and down in those formulas, but I think that it's kind of for economists and economists to do it. A respectable president. It has also identified the price of hunting, and this is what is always the biggest debate at the Council: What is the total fishing cost? And if we come to the conclusion of what the whole is supposed to be, the next question is, How are we to divide it down? This is a slightly better route than before, as I said before, about the progress of this project. If we look at Table I on the chart of Fishing in 2009-2013 and, on the other hand, we see that the recovery of fish production in 2013 is less than 33 billion, which is then divided in a certain way after freezing the bottom fish, freezing up seawater, salting, and warfareing, snowing, and fresh fishing. Then, at the fishing index, we find that the so - called net profit or EBT is less than 28 billion. In 2013 it makes commercial profits for fishing and fishing up to 61 billion dollars. And if we're talking about $11 billion fishing fees, it's between 131⁄215%, if I do my math right away in my mind, which is being taken there. Then there may still be differences of opinion about it, is it normal fishing fees, should it be higher, or should it be lower? Looks like there's still a debate here at the High Council. It will also be a matter of controversy to bear in mind and go through that the variety of structural categories, patterns, are in different shapes, prepared to pay for fishing fees. Today, it has been shown in the debates of a 13 - year fishing fee. the kilogram as it is now in cod, and goes up to about 17 k., can be very acceptable for the big companies to pay. During the multiplicity primary meeting of HB Granda, where there was talk of things I don't have time to talk about right now in the four minutes I have left, the chairman welcomed the cost of hunting, and took no interest in paying them as they are presented. But if we had so attended the main meeting of another company upstairs at Aranesp, which may have only a hundred or 200 tons of salad, that may not have been a source of joy. And it's the problem, a respectable president, that we're taking everything from small carts to the biggest and finest iceboxes or sea fishing ships and actually paying the price the same way. There's something that I think we're facing at the General Assembly. I don't think we're doing it in the remaining month of Congress, but in the coming years, we're going to continue to develop to figure out how we're going to meet my project so that it won't be one of the reasons why less members sell themselves out of the branch and your cooperation will be much bigger than it is today. It's a little project. A respectable president. I told them earlier that at the job of the job committee of the last ballast cell phone, certain parties came up and showed us their delivery numbers, and the rules on the discount were set. Were they not five fishing years when they came to meet those who had been working on the system that was then being carried out, buying the salads, and so on? There was a discount system for them when they were being geared down. It was considered unfair to hit them suddenly when they had been buying expensive salads. This discount system was inserted and now two years to come. The only thing I really want to ask the highest. A seafaring minister may be able to answer at the end of his talk. Now, two years from now, and the changes that are being made to the arrangement now, if I understand this correctly, they are taking the right to decrease by 50%. Now I have no doubt that the discounting system has done well, and I agree that it does not need to be extended to more years, as a minister had earlier. It was put in a sunset dress, and after that everyone sits at the same table. But I ask, " Why are we changing this now? ' This is, in effect, similar to what has been presented here, the question of less making, whether we are trying to weigh them down. It would be such a reason to take a special discussion about the mackerel to hold up to 18 bars. Hunting fees, and there are things worth going through. But we do not necessarily do so here in the Generalship of 1 Corinthians. Um... but on the committee. It has to be through factors such as that if the average price on macroil is 70 k. 40% of it goes from sea to sea, or 28 k. and 18K. In hunting fees, this is a total of 56 bucks. The question is, Is it going too far, or is it all right? It's our job on the Committee to go through. A respectable president. This is what I wanted to say to 1st. this matter, but it says again and again: There will be further progress on the committee where I sit, we will be better able to get through these factors all, and in my opinion, the fundamental thing that I've always felt is that we've been able to make the matter more right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u164	Madam President. What I put primarily on this bill is that it contains an apostasy from the ideologies to be based on the use of a common limited resource on, i.e. The approach to capture, in particular, the added value that comes from obtaining the access to a limited resource, which in itself creates valuables, as shown by the examples. The article itself has long ago answered the value of the access to these appendages, with high prices, to fetch the catch from the sea. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson must only stop before he thinks he is alone and unsatisfactory tolerated to write down all the idea of resource use and resource access. He's relatively lonely in that group, I suppose, because I've followed the development of the tax rights in both the domestic and international fields, and I think that this thought has become very stable and accepted by all the major international institutions and agencies in this mountain, which can be read in the indications and in the discussion of both OECD, the World Bank and other bodies. Iceland has been encouraged by them to continue developing its tax rights towards modern resource taxation, as compared to the very resource-based economy. Therefore, for Iceland, rich in natural resources, we are developing in this regard. This would be a strange speech in the Norwegian Magisterium, I suppose. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson moved. I guess they'll think it's strange, considering the methods used, e.g. to capture the resource in the oil industry and energy industry and elsewhere? Of course, this case won't resist. It won't matter. I think very critical and, of course, disagree with that, and may not be surprised because I'm obliged to the matter, that now this thought is to be completely discarded from a hunting law against the price of II. The passage of the law, on which it's still built. May I remind you of how poor this was until finally the price of hunting was set. Then this was one of the laws on the management of fishing, a very poor frame, and an impossibility of approaching this important resource of the nation in this respect. I also consider it a mistake to disappear to one simple price rather than to continue building on some kind of base tax and additional remuneration. It is, of course, a way of putting floors in this one price of 5.50 bucks. on the cod disk so that this cannot go down completely if the algorithm should now give them the result. But I'm not sure that this is about simplifying things as much as the people here would like to be. Yes, there is one method that would be well considered for a narrow definition of pure profit, as is done here, and then use some proportion of it as the basis for the fishing costs. But what is the difference between using the future, EBIT, according to an established annual payment method and solving the technical issues that definitely had to be handled? It's done here that I like it here, for example. with tax records to provide data to the Fish Office so that despite the taxes'custom of not distributing data, it should be returned in this case in the interest of the management agency and taxation to the Fish Office. These were problems that arose in 2012, and it was just as possible to solve them by cutting men to work together on such a strategy as this one. The annual budget is a highly established method, i.e. taking the interest in money, and then subtracting from it money - bound in the article, with so - called annual pay. About a year or so, the economist has used 6% of the legislation as it stood, and actually remains until it is changed, and was in view of abundant growth, leaving a career or slide, which is the opposite of the payment. Of course, the exact same type of breakdown could be made on individual species as it did on the streets. Second, I'd like to mention the debate that has long been major and was always since 2012, that if it wasn't on the foundation of an even too high and large, it would be too burdensome for an SME. And you're right. This was recognized when the legislation was being prepared in its own time that for two reasons, it would require a separate rule. In another case, the bill appeared to have a laundromatmark for the least of the parties. This was followed by data on debts due to recent sources and in good cooperation with the council, regulations were made for them to receive a certain discount at the appointed date of these recent investments. V.E.G. A minister here suggests not to interfere with it and to estimate that the original plan for a period of five years or what it was enough to do with it, and I think he will pass near it. Then what they do, the same people, and the most important, are that it is particularly burdensome for SMEs in this article and that it may lead to increased compression. If this is too burdensome for them, what do they do for the present government? They either change or cancel the discount for an SME, that is, the reality. The original rule that the first 30 tons would be without payment, and the next 70 per cent is far more efficient than the law set before the current year, so you don't talk about what is suggested here. And if I heard correctly, a sea chief would want to deny that the thought had been not to interfere with this discount, that it would be similar in the value of the party. What conclusion does the Ministry of finance reach in its expense report? Yes, I suppose it is enough to read it. It simply says that in the bill there is a tribulation on a so - called vacation market, instead of a $250 fortune to all fishers. K. A discount that replaced the earlier tons for free will be given to those who pay less than 1 billion. K. In a hunting charge of 100 thous. K. Reim. And that is a estimate of the Ministry of Economics at an average value of 40 and fifty thousand million. And how is the total total of 4,40,250 million, much less than free of the first 30 tons, and half will be the next 70? If I recall, the cost in this sense, the lost income of fishing, would be 4,500 million because of that rule. Moreover, a new proposal that the smaller part moved in the spring of 2013 would have extended its boundaries, so that the cost might have gone to 600 to700 million. So I ask: Are people really talking when they say they're worried that this may be a bit heavy for an SME or not? They do the opposite in a series of shocks. This doesn't make sense. And I'm thinking that almost all of the free money has been sunk, so it's making fun of these measures. There is good evidence to indicate that there is a partial discount, both because certain costs come with a measure of each unit, which is partly independent of its size, and, of course, is more than proportional to the less sector and less income. Second, the practicality of the size is expected to be in place, and it is normal to consider this by making the default or discount implemented to benefit SMEs and not to die until there is a considerable larger enterprise. It's very convenient to change. It is clear that failure to meet these views with reasonable, well - chosen rules will result in a much lower rate of currency. In this way, it is not because it is too burdensome for the little ones to deal with and expand rules, even a step - by - step system, to lighten the load on the small sides, if one wants to nurture them. That is why there are so many sound reasons. They have limited access to the resource, have less fishing resources, have less marketable resources, for the diversity of the article, etc. What can the fishing road pay? What's his situation today if we go over it a little bit? Yes, it is six years in a row, from 2009 to 2013, the years that we now have data from The Habitat, the sheer profit of the marine field relative to the annual payment method, i.e. The amount of material that has been reduced by 6% was 18% to more than 22%. Six years in a row. This has led to the loss of 80 billion 2009 in becoming positive about 150 billion by the end of 2013. It's swinging at 230 billion bucks. ... inmyself. It takes less than that. Each year, the end has been coming from 72 to 80 billion dollars. The imagination has been so rich in this article. In addition to this self - capital fluke of 230 billion, owners have paid tens of billions of dollars for interest, and the sum is increasing each year, thus increasing the interest of money. It's a business conversation, and it's building up its own money, isn't it? Yeah. Therefore it doesn't tell me by my limited knowledge, by means of me, that there are no ghost stories in the dark. The article has a lot of financial resources over the years, and that's fine. During this period of time, the seabed will have fully recovered from its economic strength at the time of the blow of 20073/42008. The proportion of possessions at the end of 2013 was 28.2% from being negative by 18% in 2009, so the article has become as strong, if not stronger, right after 2013 as it was over years before collapse. That's good. Of course, it is a pleasure to be successful. Here, no one really mentions the importance and the need for the seawork to contribute to the construction of the land. Of course, fishing projects contributed to the restoration of Iceland's economics and to the relief of its burdens. It was clear that with recovery and a stronger position from 2010 to 2011, she was able to do her part. It was to do so, and it is still to do so, because what we do not receive from the seawater exits in these areas is going to be more difficult for the common people or weaker welfare systems or in other ways. Remember, too, that, of course, the change in pace and price of markets and the like is crucial to the growth of the marine exit as export branches. It is one of the most pure exports we have, because of the 270 billion of the fishing road's income, some 269 have been exported, that is the case. It's 1% or it's not a clean export income. And he benefits from the small success that the people carry on their backs in the form of diminished commercial power against imported goods. Is it not, then, that there are many valid reasons for him to do his part? Yeah, I think so. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to celebrate the outcome of our Merdom. I am especially happy to read the results there and to see that we are richly reaping the responsibility we have shown, even at the end of the crisis, not to go for more advice. The severity of decisions, e.g., have not been fully understood. in the spring of 2009, at the blackest of the crisis, when we reconnected the Order of the Habitat and threw away the plans of an advanced government to hunt 30 levels. tons more than advice. [[The president calls.]] And that's coming back, isn't it? Yeah, I think so. We now have some proof that our responsibility and commitment to sustainable use are bringing abundant fruitage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u165	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm thinking that the best way to determine a license to use a limited resource is to use the market law. The market members usually have the best information on the value of quality, and thus they are most likely to be used to evaluate them. Therefore, I regularly consider fishing warrants to be the most suitable route. The next best way is to evaluate from the best information available to the resource level in this article and add the resource charge, which is a fixed percentage of the resource resources, as that thought was expressed in the law of 2012. The worst way, however, is by assigning the politician to decide the price, and second, it is to add a special tax that depends on the income of each company. I want to ask you why. The senator how he feels about the reconciliation in the bill and whether he believes that this is the way, to apply the income of each company, as it were, as the thought is of the changes made in the fishing legislation, is likely to prepare for the profit of the resource owner's income, i.e. The gains to the nation, when companies start using taxable means to avoid paying the full price of hunting. How can you tell? A senator realizes that this will develop?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u166	Mr. President. Now, the person here may not speak quite as good as some others do. Senators. He is also a greedy device, and then people must also be ready to cope with the consequences of using him as the means to find the price on something like this. Then there are other opinions, such as whether the person who pays the best, even everything he wants to buy, and what does that mean? So we just leave it to the market? How, then, will compression and so forth be accomplished? Of course it can be guided to some extent, and I have been open to ideas about going e.g. the reconstituted route to these substances. In a way, the bills we proposed back then were. We were going to try to establish an active government - state trade, and as soon as that market had gone deep enough, we'd get a very helpful message from the article on the true value of the resource. It might well be possible to think that some aspects of the reading they would get through would be useful to some extent, that would be very informative. True, the need to keep in mind the extra expenses and what men can pay for any supplement without additional investments, etc. I'm not going to be happy if people add to the understanding that, unfortunately, most of my reading from the bill is that it has just disappeared from all the thought of building this on the idea of a resource resource and a fee for access to a limited, shared resource. I'm not leaving the ideologies that it's the most natural and best approach. Looking for this through the taxation of each company is a faulty procedure for the problems they arise; they look for all the ways in their accounts and tax returns to avoid the payment by showing as little money as possible, so it's not the solution, it's the answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's like being reasonable and content talk, I'll tell you, on the bill, in the report. These include, by permission of the president, the possession of crops in Iceland, the country of Iceland, has the right to fair payment from those who have access to the crops of the sea. And also this: The current resource source, the Icelandic nation, has a right to a fair remuneration for sources which provide access to the marine resource. Hv. In the past few years, the body was very well covered and that it has been great. Some have talked about extremes in this article. I want to ask you why. A senator on what basis such reasonable and content talk, as I allow to talk about here, is built when there is no value to the resource. If the resource is not valued, how can we know that it is paying a fair price? And what fairness is it then that you pinch a little bit of profit and let it flow to the nation, but that the most large part goes directly to those with a cheap special license to exploit the nation's resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u168	Mr. President. It may be reasonable to say, however, that even the fiercest opponents of hunting fees and those with the highest interest during the last term are now giving a bill that assumes an estimated $1,5,11 billion worth of hunting fees. I'm not sure that this could have been determined by their 2011 case. Some success, though, has been achieved, I think. But instead of hunting costs, which were just another joke, almost none, in years before, there's already a population of income that's much to remember. But I'm the same conviction as before and the survival of the seabed and the strong situation as it is today, the seventh year expected with a completely abnormal supply of 2014 and an excellent year to walk around now, in the light of good furturbatives and fine trades, etc., I believe that a currency of the size of 1,5 Sources plus a moderate payback, the story is very effective, especially if we made a reasonable discount for the memory. There is no single question in my mind that this article could do its part. And, yes, I don't think it's fair that a few people, owners of the largest fishing industry mostly, can shave into their vast wealth on the fact that they are in a position to use this common resource of the nation. It is fair that much, much larger, will be involved with the owner of the nation. We have need for it, as if we have to rebuild our energy supply and many more to ensure natural gains from the resources we do not receive today, especially from the items used for electricity production in falling water and earth's heat. [[The president calls.]] There, too, the nation could be getting tens of millions of resources if properly given.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u169	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come into this thing for a minute. Once again, we are dealing with a bill to correct the change in hunting costs, which we have probably done too often with this government. Although it has been said here that it may have taken something, since it was collected around 10 billion of the fishing costs, most of what this government right controls has not submitted according to our left green policy. I'd like to say, like others, that this bill is all too late, like most larger bills that seem to be coming in with the government, and in fact, it's unacceptable to cover a controversial case like this in such a short period of time. This is not only a controversial matter at a council but also a social issue. This is normal, I think, because the sea route is a basic work product and has a direct and indirect effect on most people. Much of our settlements have been shaped in one way or another through the fishing route, especially during the later part of the wedding. Sad to say, we have had experiences that we've been tracking at a council, where money companies either buy dinners, which have so few hands, and the people who had their livelihoods from the fishing grounds, or as happened last year when the company of Visar decided to shut down their work in the Deepvogur, Húsavík, and Greece. In fact, some settlements have been able to keep up - to - date and ensure other activities or new projects in their area, but this is not a real option everywhere. It doesn't change that I think people in the country think it's right and fair that people who use the resource will pay a fair amount of money. One thing about the current fishing laws is to ensure that the nation is to share in the gains produced by sea resources. Therefore, the purpose of the original law was clear, i.e. The link between the resource resources of the fishing industry and the fishing fees. They mostly discussed how much of the nation's owner funded the EBT's profits and how much of it would gain on top of all the business costs and natural profits it made. As previously traced, this relationship was interrupted, and there is no connection between the purpose of this law and the decision to hunt costs. The purpose of staging the country's resources into our constitution is to ensure that the land's access to them, including the land's various kinds, is established. Intimidation, management and use, which we hope to be more assured of living in the whole country. With the law on fishing at the factory, our joint funds get an increase in our profits from the nation's fish stocks. Sadly, though, the right government has decided that it took over tens of billions of incomes, including the social infrastructure. An investment plan of the last government gave evidence of this, for it was often referred to as unsaidable, even as it was said. in there. Now we're stuck with the insides of society crumbling, and there's no money left in them. When it comes to the lack of fair fishing fees, that they are high or in the weight of small and medium-sized companies, that the fishing costs simply go under, or that they lie down mainly in the country, impairing seamen's salary or what they were now, even in the way of newinvestment and renewal, I know that the public in this country does not buy that kind of language. We've seen it with signatures, etc. But there are very few objective opinions in the bill's report on how the fishing costs are going to be for the future, the countable premise. It is a figure of speech, but it does not exactly shed light on the final outcome. Whether we look at the energy sector or the tourism industry or anything that is based on Icelandic nature, we need and could do so much better and have more resources in it. That is why articles such as the fishing route, which both use and build their resources to a large extent on the nation's resources, paid a fair resource price. Then, of course, we can exchange opinions on what we think is fair and it has managed in this room. It is often like us that demand this connection, the resource connection, wants to bring down this sector. Not so, but we want those enterprises that have the unique permission to use the resource to pay for that price. What we left greens have put in place is not for the economy but for the purpose that they pay a fraction of their excess when the cost of operating has been dropped and what is needed for continued investments. Then we can discuss what was stated earlier on the matter of reconciliation and see in the report. I don't fully understand how the Minister might think of suggesting that there's some agreement here between the nation and the people, or who is now. If that were the case, we would expect to put into the constitution in some way what has been called. Then we were afraid to allow the nation to participate in this decision, and we would listen when they have spoken with all kinds of signatures. It does not seem that the person who handles the cards on behalf of the nation was concerned only with the construction and not with the nation's resources. The report highlights one of the main reasons for having crops in Iceland, Iceland, to have the right to fair payment from those who have access to the crops of the sea. As a result, the owner of the resource, the Icelandic nation, has a fair remuneration for sources that give access to the sea resources. There's a hollow sound in this, we can say, at least I don't think the value of national property is a real factor in the bill, and neither is the value of the resource nor is there any other evidence. What is it that the minister believes he has agreed? It will be interesting to hear the discussion later on. How does he intend to settle the fair and natural fishing fees when it is obvious that the attitudes are enormously different, not only at the council, but also in the community, because we speak for ourselves not only as here but for those who chose us and consider this big matter. It looks a little bit like it needs to fit the fishing companies and as their management interests are above the national resource, as if everyone is being cut off, despite this fishing resource use or resource use. There is a lot of technical speculation in the report, and the problem has been claimed to be building a complex tax returns that should be handled. It'll be interesting to see when it shows up, if it works out well. We talk about profit in the fishing industry, as we noted earlier in the years after the collapse specifically, and it is of course well - known that the economy went well and made a lot of money, of course, we want to make it that way. However, if we think about it, it has risen by tens of billions, but that in itself is not a major change in aggressiveness. There is not something else that explains the increase, the main thing that has been going on, which, of course, will be for good but we know by ourselves that we have had to pay for it at the time of a gang crash. I think there's always a need to look for the cost of hunting to affect all of us financially. The exchange of money is one of today's major justice issues. It needs to be better understood both economic and financial based on this structure and put out better information than it should, in my opinion. The laws set up in their time for hunting charges were presented not only as sources of government funds but as resource policies. As I said before, the Constitution work made it clear that the resource was actually owned by the nation. Unfortunately, I consider what has happened since, and I'm not happening now to be a failure to strengthen it, since the fishing costs are no longer to be connected to the resource industry. What is to be guided is the nation's claim to profit from the fishing resource. The Ark is the rightful property of the nation and never has and must never become the private property of the few. The fees are not tax returns, they are a product of the nation's property, the fish markets, and we collected them to secure their money from their own resources. As for the 10% that's supposed to give money to the nation, I say, like one good man: It's like throwing bones at dogs or pieces of bread for little birds. Those who do this should explain to the nation what they mean by making declarations that the resource is national property.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u170	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion this afternoon for the coming three years. I'm going to respond to some of the questions presented in the Senate case, the occasional questions, the things I feel that do not exist, or the need to explain. Hv. The last speaker spoke a lot of peace, who she was, and what she was like, that the ideas presented here were not in the spirit of her council, and that there is a point in that. I cannot agree with much on the senator's case, but I quite agree with the senator that it is a price for the use of national resources. We've been molding it, and I hear a positive sound of senators toward the technical changes we're making here, e.g. to pick up locals, which I think is very necessary. Depending on whether changing from general currency to a specific price, the only price that has been fixed inside the floor is comparable. I believe that this is for simplicity and that it is easier to collect and handle, but it still ensures the same thought that was in those two previous fees. It has also been concluded that the bill to take control of fish for a long time, the policy of making arrangements, as part of it as fishing costs, the ideas presented to members of the Parliament about it were somewhat different. It is only natural, therefore, that this bill, available for the next three years, is somewhat different. This results from the changes presented here. For example, it is true that the night passed. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, said that this is where the methodology was presented in II. the section of the law, suggested here to be canceled. As I said here, in contrast to the earlier debate, most economist economist economist economist economists and experts are excluded from calculating resources in the stocks we've had for 30 years and have walked here to buy and sell. On the other hand, everyone agrees on that, I think, that in the macro, which is entering a new one, there is a true resource resource value present. That is why it is charged with additional fees. Naturally, no suggestions on how to find the additional fee, listed at 10 K, would be better. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir asked what the arrangement was like in our neighboring countries. In Greenland, people take 0.95, or 95 Danish pennies, less than a penny of Danish, for a pound of mackerel. There, however, there is nothing to be said about her efforts to launch experimental fishing on her, and the environment is far different from that of this country. In the Faeroe Islands, the price is about $1, U.S., and then the deliveries have an additional tax on income tax, an additional tax score. That's it, the corporate tax, 18% and I think it's about 7% additional tax. If we are going to compare our currency in Iceland and in our neighboring countries, we also need to compare the cost of making. The movers have taken the initiative in the Norwegian field to compare the pay cost to the cost of seamen in a somewhat different way. We know that, in comparison to the green industry, the cost of making it is somewhat higher, which, among other things, earns into a government fund from a fine seamen's salary - and I hope that everyone is happy that they have a good salary. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller pondered the change in debt, why it was planned here at 50%. In fact, when these plans were set up for five years, they became six years old because of the sound of the text that now amounted to two years left of that period. Based on their planned fishing fees, they set out to be in the range of 201⁄225 billion today. The strain, because it's index assured, has fallen to over 4 billion. But when there are 10.9 billion fishing fees and we have this standard payment - that's why there's also a debt drop every month so that you can't take advantage of it just in the first few months and then no more, it's a 50% chance that the total reduction will be to 2.2 billion, if I recall correctly, but according to the Ministry of Justice, the total reduction in the hunting fee will be about 1.5 billion. In addition to the holiday market, or it's inside, that means that the fishing costs are 9.4 billion, and then there's an additional cost in the macroil, which, based on the same quantity next year, is 1.5 billion. In effect, this route has just disappeared because it is considered normal and reasonable to agree with the sum of the fishing costs and is the same ratio as that of humans. Of course, if the fishing costs were well over 20 billion, it would not be necessary to have a 50% reduction in these teams. I hope this explains why it's this way. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask and others came only to the holiday goal, which I had discussed earlier. Senators. The purpose was that this would be exactly the same as the Ministry of Experts believed it to be. We have covered this in these last days, and we have become convinced that we are not. I think it's quite normal for the committee to review it. That was the whole point of this 250 yous. K. The average average average of free income in the current year would be maintained. In fact, there is some change when you suggest that this value is primarily for those paying 1 million or less and therefore the total amount decreases. Whether those who pay more than they are supposed to enjoy this vacation share should be all the way for everyone, so that all are reduced to one another, but it will be as useful to those who may need it most. I think that's normal, and I trust that the Ministry will be provided with good information to inform the committee on how it will be implemented so that it will become real. This may explain the terms of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which are underprivileged so that they only enjoy the pay of 1 million or less, that is, fewer members. But the idea was that it should be the same as it was supposed, but I think it's right to go over it. Other than that, I thank you for this fine discussion and trusted the committee to handle the matter well. I reiterate that this is the same arrangement - the arrangement last year was not written into the law but published a tablet and reported calculations. Here's a bill that explains it, and the reason is that we're going to use this to set the cost of fishing for the next three years, so we're going to have to explain the methodology in the bill. But that is exactly the same basis and the same calculation that lays the basis as before. The observations made by a professional health board last year at Economic Institute and other values in these situations have only changed the proportions of their recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u171	A respectable president. I must express my concern with these high hunting costs. I'd like to ask the highest. To what does a minister explain this dramatic rise, this 30% increase, and up to 50% of some species, from year to year, when fish prices have not increased but at most 10% at the same time? I guess that part of the explanation -- I don't think it's entirely -- is that there's an industrial tax. The bill says: Come on, full profits in the EBT as well as the EBT ii. 20% of the following: full profit (EBT) in salts and warfare and fresh fish industry and 78% of pure profit (EBT) in cryo-consuming. It's the highest. There's no fear that he is promoting an even greater compression, and this shrapnel of the only fishermen with these high fishing costs? According to this, these ships and their dictators seem to be paying taxes for their processing. Does he fear that this will further demoralization?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u172	A respectable president. It is proper to be careful about fishing in order not to influence the behavior of an enterprise. If we agreed on this last year, with the current fishing costs, that they were moderate and would not interfere with the behavior of an enterprise, then hunting costs for the next three years will not do so but because they are calculated in exactly the same way as in the current year. It is true that here, fishing costs are estimated as profit in hunting and then as part of a profit from work. This is because we have not yet been able to find a solution to the price of fish that is likely in at least three ways today. It might be a good job to use the next two years that we have, because our hunting fees will run for three years, to set up a team that would go over it once and for all, whether we could find a way to handle this so that future fishing costs, as we have discussed, that would be desirable and reasonable, which would be mainly taken at tables, would have solved the problem called the ◯tax facccccccing, or the exchange of profits from harvesting in progress. That's why we went that way last year. If we agree that last year's fishing costs have not affected the behavior of our companies, we should not fear that this will happen over the next three years. One of the reasons that there is such a rise in human activity was that last year it was a agreement to use this as EBT, which, of course, means that gang swings and supply positions could affect this. Last year, men enjoyed the development of gang development, and in teleportation, hunting costs were slightly lower. [[The president calls.]] Today, progress is being made in the other direction, and the stocks are sold that are responsible for making a profit report on the cost of fishing and thus increasing in production, so it needs to be paid for the price of fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u173	A respectable president. It's not just the processing tax paid by the dictators, it's also the success difference between these big enterprises which are making a lot of money, that may explain the difference. It's the industrial tax, part of it, and a gang difference. V.E.G. According to a minister, we have agreed on the fact that this has not had a significant effect last year. But to the only catcher, when the price is only rising by 10% but the catch cost goes up by 30%, it can't be the same as last year. Start a team and work for three years to collect data and figure out and find - we don't need to be picking up the bike. I'd like to ask you, wasn't it examined? We have official fish prices. We have a fish market, a public fish market, which has enough volume, which is referred to in the bill that if you use it in all the time, it can be used. We have official price of fish, wasn't it considered just having a certain percentage of it? Prices of fish markets tell the price. It's the same with the rest of the way. All this complex order, collecting and calculating data for a few years, we also have public figures to use there. In a fishing lab's web, we can see this contribution, it's simply a matter of how people switch from fish to cod. The figures are very clear. You can take one month, you can take a year. So it doesn't have to be a complicated matter. I would like to ask: Was the use of those figures not viewed? [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to ask the highest. Minister if he's not concerned about what it says here on the bill can have any negative effects over the long term. [[The president calls.]] Don't ring any alarm bells?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-16-90.u174	A respectable president. Much has been considered in finding the right way. As I have mentioned several times today, we are developing these paths gradually. I don't think this is any complicated calculus developed by a hunting board. I believe they were very sensible, to find these results. I think that's a very reasonable way to share the fee. However, everyone agrees that it is defective, unfortunate, to use old data. We need to do the next two years while we get the right information from corporate tax returns, and we can use it directly, with the latest information on income and expenses. I think it'll be a great improvement when we get to that place. I reiterate that this method presented for the next three years is exactly the same as in the current year. If people were reasonably at the council they agreed with last year, they should not be particularly concerned over the next three years. Thanks for the discussion.
