ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u1	The president wants to draw attention to that time. This evening at 19.50, political debates, or kitchen - day talks, take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u2	Mr. President. Now that Congress has come to an end, we are still facing the very serious situation of the Land Hospital. We are still confronted with the failure to negotiate with BHM, and as a result, strike action is still under way and interviews have been delayed until August 4. Getting people back to work has not been very successful, i.e. radiologists or others who quit work in the middle of the last month, and the hospital director feels that the situation is extremely serious. Of course, when it comes to the government, we're going to the vacation, to the health clinics' summer vacations, to say that the situation is so serious as it really is. This does not mean boasting about having invested much money in Land Hospital and Health Center when it comes to people, educated people working in a country that is free of charge. We must respond, and a health minister needs to answer in what way he will arrange for these matters. The hospital is funded; there is no budget to add until the end of the period, around 2018 or 2020, so something is to be done about it, i.e. some design and drawings should be available, but there is no vision of it before a new hospital is built that equipment will be added, on top of the fact that people do not have enough benefits. A respectable president. I'm the highest. A health minister I hope will answer tomorrow to tell us something about how he intends to react to this serious situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u3	A respectable president. When dealing with this type of pay policy, it refers primarily to the equal pay of men and women. Little or no discussion has taken place about the same pay policy after work, responsibility, and education. In itself, there has been no debate as to how this difference should be and why. BHM requirements for remuneration are general requirements for promotion of academics without rational support for why and how. Is the lawyer supposed to be paid more than a driver? Also, there has been no talk of pay between university students. Should a lawyer from the state pay more than an Icelandic teacher in high school? Why do some twins who are women who graduated from the university, one as a lawyer, and the other as a midwife, not equal to the government's salary? The Habitat's biography study reveals that those who have only completed primary education in Iceland have a higher proportion of academic donations than in any other European country or 87.7% in 2012. In that year, the median amount of provisions was 345 you have. K. from the university, 316 you're here. K. in people with job and professional education and 303 you have. K. in primary school education. A respectable president. The head of VR, Ólafía B. Rafnsdóttir, said that the basis for the contracts of VR was a decrease in the number of tax steps to two, because these changes provide significant benefits for members of the intermediate group VR. So I ask. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir: The members of the United States have talked about the same pay policy, but the equation is no bigger than in Iceland. You want to pay in accordance with education, and count against tax reforms that bring considerable benefits to the laymen. How does the United States find that there is a greater equalizing in pay markets? Does the United States agree to BHM's claim that education will be paid? Does the Union disagree with the president of the VR and against tax declines in order to improve the interest of the intermediate traders?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u4	A respectable president. The last government was in what was then called an equally paid campaign in an effort to achieve a higher pay rate in large groups of women. It was a targeted attempt to pull them up. I don't think that this project is going well enough for a new government, and I hope it now attracts itself and continues to work on that policy, because many aspects of publicism have been maintained. Of course, in education and pay, we are to assess the level of pay and that is a reasonable requirement. The big women's classes, like the medical and educational classes, must be raised in the public sector, that's just the way it is. We have supported it and shown it in action, e.g. by launching with the equally paid effort, but unfortunately, the effort failed to be followed properly. I have to say about the tax system that we've been talking for a step-by-step tax system because the tax system is to be used for income relief. It is recommended that OECD be taken up by a number of international organisations in an effort to reduce the income range and obtain taxes in a fair way. A respectable president. As we look at the intermediate groups, which often have an enormous burden, the young people, and the children, we are to use tools such as child support and compensation to meet these groups during the heavy period of life in terms of expenses. This government is now working on 1/3 of the growth reforms paid at the most. [[The president calls.]] I am concerned about the indifference of the government, therefore, by using the tools used in using the tax system to lighten the burden of the heavy load.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u5	A respectable president. It is now about a month since I first took my first place at the council, and that tells me more experienced members of the council that the last four weeks do not provide the correct picture of the general Senate work. I really hope that they are right, for I have to admit that what I did was rather strange to me. The last time I spoke up about the Senate's activities, I criticized the tactics, shredded the cloth, as one of my associates put it. I'd like to suggest that reform, one small suggestion of how to improve the work of the council, make it better. I'm pretty sure we can get it out if we have the will. This calls for a little exercise, a lot of practice for someone, but I believe it's quite possible and maybe it's not that difficult. I suggest that rather than interrupt or cry out to members of the council while they are in Pontu, we pray for the word and use the Senate symposium to criticize or explain their position. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I've been discussing this with members of my team, and now I'm serving this here, for the entire body of Congress. Here are three good reasons why members of the Parliament should stop shouting and acting. The speaker's comments and viewpoints can be made much better. It is also possible to speak to the whole nation and to the assembly, for shouts and pleas are rarely received through broadcasts and have absolutely nothing to do with them. [[The president calls.]] I encourage all of us to use the pylons rather and to risk careers in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u6	V.E.G. President. Lately, reports on prices are coming from suppliers and retail companies. It's a lot of thought and research in itself, since the main bills are now about 3% weaker to a dollar than they were a year ago, I mean the euro and the northern coins, in the ones that the next loss has not been given back a buck's scholarship up to 10◯12%. It also seems that the store has not yet fully produced the reduction in sugary products determined at the General Assembly at the end of the New Year's Eve. It appears to be in the consumer and ASI prices surveys. This morning's paper says the head of the Department of Economics for the All-American Union of Iceland, with permission of presidents: If commercial power did not increase in February next year, the new agreements are smiling. That's serious news. I think it must be so that now storekeepers have to take care of themselves, and I also think consumers in this country need to think about things. Happily, people are more willing than before to express their views. It has been obvious repeatedly outside this house. Now it may be time for the Icelandic consumers to respond in a similar way and make a real effort to choose with their feet and to ignore the most recent ups and downs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u7	A respectable president. Recently, the Rackham Committee returned a number of opinions, and it can be said that it was not a matter of conversation, but of whether Reykjavík's airport will remain in Watermam or anywhere else. It is disappointing that the committee did not consider the benefits of continuing the airport in the Watermelon and that the international flight would be taken to Keflavík. Clearly, the city authorities do not want to permanent Reykjavík's airport to the long future in the Waterstain, and they want to organize big increases. Of course, it does not have to be said that an airport will not be moved, that it will be devastated. I ask, can we afford to destroy 20 billion? It is not wise to build a new airport closer to Keflavour Airport or in Whalenun, sacrificing another construction site for the modern city of London's airport. In fact, there is a gap in the arctic airport, and it does not start off from expanding the airport. Tourist areas along the southwest corner are inflation and transport systems are in effect as well. More than half the bodyfish industry is an hour drive from Reykjavík. So I ask if it's not time to build up a real international airport on the other side of the country. By doing so, we spread the stream of travel across the country, protecting sensitive natural bulbs that are exposed to depravity. In this way, we develop fish farming in the region, where the landscape will be better equipped to increase the value of marine resources and to build a powerful core of land in many lands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u8	Mr. President. News reports recently made it possible to read that the Justice General's Council is now regrouping with the Seljalands Falls, one of the possibilities to consider a currency to the falls. The fact is, we still have the issue of whether or not they can take over the natural spheres of the country from people who pass through it. After the bill's highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs for Nature Cares has not fallen from our grip on the council. There is now, and it was shown in the debate over the matter at the council, that it was generally possible to detect the willingness to review the uptake of services within travel services as well as to examine the possibility of looking at tourism as any other sector that uses the resources of the country, i.e. Nature, the unmoved nature, the beauty of nature, and the tourism are natural to pay for it just as we expect those who use the fish in the sea to pay for that fair price. Nothing has, however, gone on in that matter. Mr. President, we're still in some wild West where landowners, rural governments, and others can do their part in a random payment at tourist locations, and in reality, there is nothing that can be done. I have a question that this is going to last for the protection laws of nature that are in effect. We've asked many questions about it at the council and found that it is not, but nothing is done and there is no advice. Mr. President. Based on how long this council has been working, longer than any council this year, which is not electioned since 1985, I find absolutely unbelievable. The government has not yet been able to control the matters of knowledge, we are watching it in the fall that the exact same cases will be on the table as they were here in the last autumn. [[The president calls.]] It's not just a resolution, it feels like we're going backwards than the other one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u9	A respectable president. I want to come up here and say the word. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's beak, who has expressed concern for the health status of the health system. I feel uncomfortable, I must admit that I am going to a summer permit, which is supposed to be soon taken by Congress, without knowing what kind of action they're going to take on that position. Today, at least 200 nurses, all of whom are more and less specialized in certain areas, have quit their jobs as well as other health care professionals within the BHM hospital, who have also quit their jobs, so it is up to a third hundred people. This is the demand for staff who have the potential to work around the world, highly qualified health care professionals. I am so worried, and we in the United States have it. I have to say just as it is that I don't think it's okay that the Allied Council has not yet received some report or statement from the highest level. Minister of Health, let alone the special discussion that has been requested on this matter by Pirata. The concern, therefore, is parapolitic. I wanted to be asked by the President that we could have a discussion about this because it's not only that so large groups quit their jobs, but it's also a list of waitings that have been due to strikes and farms in these groups. It's a big deal, it's gonna cost a lot of money to make it up. A budget does not expect a large increase in pay from government employees, so the situation is in a lot of turmoil. [[The president calls.]] We need to look at this seriously because it is a serious situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u10	V.E.G. President. In this brief discourse, I intend to be in a similar position to that of a man. paritaprevir And Sæmundsson's partner. There is good reason to be concerned about the development of climate growth. It's amazing to read that in a short period of time, certain stores have raised prices of over 4%, and you also read reports that supply is further rising in the months to come. This happens in spite of what happened. paritaprevir Sæmundsson noted that during a period of time, the dollar has been growing by about 10 to 12 percent. The sales have not been fully returned to consumers called sugar tax, and consumers have not felt that this reduction took place. However, many stores, many of them, will not quickly be returned to consumers if there is an increase in markets. You read that it's Haust and Iceland that have increased most, as shown in recent surveys. For one thing, these are stores that are open 24 hours a day. The price to pay is clear that it is the consumers who carry that time of opening. A consumer's interests are wondered if such a long opening period is necessary, for it produces a higher price that affects various indicators. There is good reason to be concerned about this because of the forbidden agreements made in certain agreements that if financial resources do not stay strong and that certain agreements are not threatened. I hope that the suppliers and stores that have been raising prices for the past few months will revise their decisions and try to bring down the reductions into prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u11	President. I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate the decision of the province of Reykjavík in the matter of Snædís Hjartardóttir yesterday against the State of Iceland or the National Social Network of the Deaf and Hearing Impressed. It appealed to her because the center denied her of nonprofit interpretation services because the interpretation fund was empty, as it has been observed, but has now been temporarily replaced, i.e. in the current year, and hopefully next year. This is an enormously important turning point. There will likely be many others, dozens of deaf people who have experienced sign - language services in everyday life. The Court of the District Court states that the State violated the Constitutional rights Snædís Senedisus to minimal service, higher legal rights. This, of course, is an enormously important text in a conclusion. Among other things, a lawyer in the United States of Snædís seriously claimed that it was permitted to obtain human rights by this young woman with the justification that human rights did not fit within the budget - human rights did not fit in. The lawyer says it's just as smart as saying that women don't get to vote in next election because the campaign funding has been cut down. Then we could be talking about a lot more constitutions rights, such as the right to education and right to health care and the right to obtain the life of a pensioner, and you wonder what cases could follow by explaining that human rights will never be covered by financial law. I believe this is on our level an enormous and important subject of coverage due to the judgment of the district and not merely to the freedom of expression by the deaf and sign language of the people but to a much larger solution that awaits us in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u12	V.E.G. President. For the past two years, the person standing here has severely criticized Iceland's Secret Bank because of the direction of interest every time and still did so about two weeks ago. This time, several stakeholders in the financial system have taken up the thick for the Federal Bank, accusing the person here on fiscalism in criticism of Iceland's Secret Bank and pointing out that the Navy has only one means to keep back inflation and to stand for a money policy and that is a management interest plan. This is not at all the right thing to do. In view of what it says here, Iceland's United States Council has not been used for quite some time, to the extent that he has the authority and ability to, commitment to business banks in Iceland, I'm especially referring to regulations 11 and 12. Act on Iceland's Secret Bank. It ensures that the SERVANT can apply increased binding responsibilities to certain bank loans, etc. This is the front bank in the palm of the song. I believe that there is good reason to impress the bank's money policy board and his management with this because I am absolutely convinced that in these circumstances, when we see the release of a problem, the last rise in the World Bank will increase the risk that there will be an influx of funds, as happened in a subsequent collapse with known consequences. That's why I still challenge Iceland's Penitentiary and its managers to dress up and use whatever resources they can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u13	A respectable president. The Rackham Committee returned the other day and excluded many options that have been held up during the discussion that could replace Reykjavík's airport. I've seen that there's not much more to talk about, and there won't be more of a deal for moving the airport to Wash. I would like to direct those who believe that it is possible to move him to Cheflavík to see that much of the international flights are likely to fall by, simply because there is far too little difference between driving away to form Isafjordur and Akureyri and taking flights and cars or using other means of transportation. What I thought came out of this was that Reykjavík, the airport where he is today, is really the best solution. It wasn't specifically investigated, but somehow I think it lies between the lines of the report and in fact, it's very obvious. The mayor's Dagur Eggertsson Elegtsson declared that he wanted others to come out of the pits and discuss this matter. I will also direct it to him, whether he is not willing to do the same. For example, he has not been prepared to discuss whether it is simply best for land and nation that the airport stays in the Hydromosis. I encourage him in that discussion. I would also like to encourage him to stop projects in the Hostage area, all aimed at the disappearance of the emergency track, actually reading it out of the report in an incomprehensible way that it would indicate that they were to be carried out. I'd also like to direct it to him until he wants to build another airport or move it from the Hydromese, he takes the evacuation field from the main organization, but the north/southways are to be removed in 2020 and disposed of at the airport permanently in 2024. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope this message comes to the mayor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u14	A respectable president. I want to begin by celebrating the judgment of the province of Reykjavík yesterday, where human rights were defeated. They also recently won the United States Supreme Court, which is a cause for joy. I'd like to make it a subject of the same subject as the other. Employees have done here, i.e. Reykjavík Airfield. I'm a member of the Reykjavík District of the North, and I call myself a 101-town rat and I don't want to be anywhere except downtown in Reykjavík. On the other hand, I often feel that my discussion about the airport in Reykjavík begins at the wrong end. People in the country often tell me how important the city's airport is, and I understand that. But before we begin to think of the permanent location of the airport, I feel that we are more likely to begin at the other end, which we wonder at the interiors of the country, whether or not we should strengthen the interior parts of the country, begin there, accept the service in the country, even transport organizations there if there is a legal basis. [[Export institutions.]] I believe that there is often a very grammatical argument to support health care and even to consider very seriously the ideas that have been shown to make a second international airport in Iceland elsewhere in the country, both to spread the current across the country better, in order to make it easier to distribute these infrastructures, and most importantly, to build up places in the country because they may have built up here in Reykjavík, to a large extent because the airport is here. I think we should look into this whole thing in a much larger context, take a much deeper discussion on how to make peace between the country and its capitals on this matter, because when I consider this as a proud downtown rat, I feel that we share more than we need. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u15	Mr. President. There's more to it than what. Candidates noticed that the store does not appear to have dropped prices in terms of, for example, the price of goods. Swamp products in line with the dramatic decrease in the sugar tax or the demolition of the product at the end of the year. Why, though, is this surprising? Why are you w-w-w-w-w-Why are you w-w-w-w. The senators were surprised by this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u16	We're not surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u17	On this point, there was a series of references and experiences that it was a serious risk of exactly what would happen, yet it was a matter of supporting them, members of the House of forward. [[Up front.]] So when they come here, I don't have an overwhelming sympathy for them, crying that now what they were warned, this would probably not turn to consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u18	Empathy with consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u19	Otherwise, I was going to agree with what I needed. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter about the sad state of the situation, the sad fact that we are sailing into the third summer in a row under the leadership of this government, with an absolute confusional situation in the tourist places and its reforms, not to mention the pressures of a random exchange where private people intend to go to mate by selling into areas where the State has even put money in the building or taking a walk and other steps in that way. It must be said, as it is understandable Icelandic, Mr President, that the government has so precariously prejudicial to these matters that it is quite ugliness. As a result of her abuse, she threw out investments and funds for building shelters in the tourist trades that had begun with significant funds through tourist attractions and on the basis of the previous government investment plans, some natural rights were to be adopted or something else. None of it's ever made it. The government is trying to save itself with some extra funds year after year and the highest. Industrial and tourism ministers are home shit -- they're all fucked up in the next three years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u20	President. First of all, I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Eldar son of Ástþórsson that people promote themselves here. Of course, the frontal call will never be taken away, and sometimes it can be fun, but most often, unfortunately, it is boring and disturbing to a speaker. So I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir Eldar son of Ástþórsson, that we should try to get the most out of that custom or habit, or whatever it is now called. I would also like to mention what two candidates have mentioned here. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon also came into it, i.e. the increases observed in shops and the lack of loss of the sugar tax have not been achieved. But as we have seen here, it's nothing new. It's just that it's always been this way. It's always been that the store is quickly up when it comes down, or when the price comes in, but unfortunately, it always draws its legs to lower and lower - I'm just gonna never say what the raise is. At the same time, I'd like to say "I'm totally opposed to the fact that the council begins to decide whether a camp was open at night or not. " It is consumers who choose them with their feet, and they do not shop in stores that are so expensive because of long opening hours. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u21	A respectable president. On behalf of the Environment and Transport Committee, I hereby recommend an aluminium study with a modification proposal for a synonym to reduce the use of plastic bags. The draft proposal is to hide environmental and resource ministers in order to find ways to reduce the use of plastic bags in this country. There are other European countries in which the use of plastic bags has been progressively reduced. It is then recommended in the synonym that a plan of action be published prior to 1st March 2015. Since that date has now passed, the committee proposes a change to be made instead by November 1. We have discussed the matter and have been contacted by some of our guests as well as some good comments on the subject. The use of plastics and plastics is extremely high in our community, where plastics are used in many products, which cover goods, resulting in an enormous amount of plastic in a plastic bag. Plastics and plastics are damaging to the environment as it is appropriate to reduce and try to find ways to work. However, it is also important to focus, not on a single factor, but on the overall environmental impact of a product, i.e. from the time a product is manufactured and discarded. A search must be made to ensure that the environmental impacts remain minimal throughout the product's life cycle. It also requires that plastic bags vary in thickness and weight, which is responsible for the environmental impact of their transport. The duration of a plastic bag is very good, however, and this is the extent of its environmental impact, which decays very slowly in the environment. Thus, environmentally friendly use of a different kind of bag or a separate type of bag or plastic that breaks down easily and uses it more often than once, but one of the main causes of the plastic bag usage is how rarely they are used in relation to their extension. The Commission stated that the Agency has taken the initiative in a project that is in line with the proposal to reduce the use of plastic bags. The task was to identify the situation in this country and to put together key measures in other countries and to provide suggestions for action. A project program was made that would be easy to work on and emphasized that potential action would be done in cooperation with stakeholders, that it would be settled and that a good presentation would be made on the project. According to the Committee, the contents of this project agree well with the Parliament's resolution proposal, and we feel that there is one overall project on the basis of which these two projects are put together in one handsome format. At that time, the Commission was also presented with proposals for changing the European Commission directive, which is now being discussed in the European Parliament. There is clear debate in Europe and elsewhere on reducing plastic bags, and the Commission agrees with the EEA that now is the right time for policy development and action on the part of the state to greatly reduce the use of plastic bags, the environment and the community. I'd also like to mention that there are rural areas here in the country that have taken big steps in this regard. No other comment can be made on this matter than the mention of Stykisholm, who has an interesting job going on trying to make this town out of plastic bags and other rural areas have considered this. This matter was first presented to 143, the legislature of Gauja Gauju Magnúsdóttir, a deputy council member, and is now reassigned by a group of members of Congress. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter in the head. It is a pleasure to see this issue come true because it is a major issue, even if it does not contribute, because of the impact of plastic bags in the environment. Under this committee, all the environmental and transport committees will be written, why. paritaprevir The head of the committee, Þórhallsson's son, is the one standing here who is the spokesman for the case. Councilmen Einarsson, Birgir the Ármannsson of Aarna, Elín Hirst, Róbert Marshall, Þór of SvandísÓlafsson the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur of Árnason, who was absent from the case. As I previously reported, we make one adjustment, instead of ◯1. March 1, 2015, arrives: November 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u22	Mr. President. First, I want to express my joy and appreciation. The environment and transport committees for bringing the situation here and taking care of it today. This is a very important thing. We use plastics very wide, plastics are everywhere. We will not stop using plastic, but we must bear in mind that the plastic is badly broken down and over many dozens of years, it is turned down to small particles, e.g. In the sea. There it enters the marine food chain, and as animals are on top of the food chain, the adverse effects and adverse effects of these plastic particles in the ocean are much more pronounced. There is really reason to influence this, for it has been shown to affect our health and, especially, our hormonal farming of humans. With Icelanders, we base our image of purity, clean water, and we sell our fish with exactly that image in mind. Of course, we are to take a good example, and we are now to do so by agreeing to this synonym. We are ahead of the European Union, which will bring an order, which, of course, is to be that way. When we go shopping, we notice that we use a lot of bandages when we take our products home, not just a plastic bag, but a lot of plastic bags everywhere and some people talk about Iceland being in a plastic store daily. We can handle it ourselves, each one of us, but I'm glad that the government is now going to step in order to work on this council plan, which has been well treated at the council. As noted earlier, Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir, a deputy council member of the United States, proposed a Senate resolution to investigate the practicality of extracting plastic bags. Following the discussion that that that council resolution proposal was granted, even though it was not decommissioned, it was decided to go further, and I as well as other controversies and whatnot. The members of all political parties decided to make this council resolution, which I once again rejoice to have come here for release.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u23	A respectable president. Here's a good suggestion, and I'm glad she's back at the council and approved. I just wanted to say that this is very much the spirit they are currently working at the Environment and Resource Ministry. We want to reduce the amount of plastic use and waste. We ourselves know that we use packaging too much, as too much plastic proves. I have sometimes told you that several years ago, I was traveling through the Valley in Sweden, and what impressed me most was that there were plastic bags for the spindle. They used the plastic bags, washed them, and hung them out to bear. I think there's a lot we can learn from people around us and that we can handle this because, as we have seen in this discussion, it's the least thing about our most important resource, the ocean, that more and more studies will reveal that plastic has a negative impact on the entire environment there. So one thought that cornbags might be the solution to us Icelandic housewives, but then I read a fine report on the corn bags, so they may not be better with various aspects of the environment than with the plastic. There are other factors that weigh there, so it is sometimes difficult to deal with these issues. Use cloth bags as much as possible to recycle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u24	President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a motion-changing proposal for interpretation of the practicality of train transport. The proposal is made by members of four classes, the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, the daughter of Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunns, the Ottti Proppér, the son of Karl Garðarsson, and the Harðardóttir of Oddný G.. The nominee with a new proposal says: The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Ólafur Bjarnason from Reykjavíkurburg, Jónas Snæbjörnsson from Vega, and Hrafnkell Proppér, from the Company Association in the capital area. The committee received reviews from various sources. The interpretation proposal is, in fact, twofold. On the one hand it is suggested that the Minister of the Internal Affairs (I.A.) ask the local branch members to investigate the practicality of train transport between the Cheflavor airport and Reykjavík, and the cost of reading systems within the capital area. The benefits and defects of this process and the possible ways to get it to work will be examined. The costs and benefits of society and economic, environmental and organizational factors will be mainly directed to the eyes. The results of the study are available in the middle of 2015, as the proposal suggests, but in the adjustment form it is expected that the year will be replaced: 2016, the nature of the case. At a meeting of the Committee, it was noted that during the last loss, a new regional structure for the capital area was being established, but all rural areas are being placed in the capital area. Cooperation between rural communities in the capital area has been rapid and increasing after new organizational laws adopted in 2010, where regional planning is being done even higher. It may rightly be said that the cooperation of the rural communities in the capital area was very successful and that it was not merely a matter of routine planning, but also of cooperation with waste management, public transportation, and other factors. In the currently developed regional structure, special attention is being given to the development of the entire region and the transport system that connects rural areas and then connects the capital area to the region. The city line is a new efficient public transport system designed to become the spine in the development of transportation and structure based on the capital area. But it is clear that in the coming decades, the population of the city and its capital area will need to be taken into account. I've sometimes said we have to be careful to discuss not just the end of Iceland but the fact that more and more people move here to urban areas. We need to be careful how urban areas respond to that change. According to mob forecasts, as indicated by the Hagroom, this is going to be about 300 thousand people in 25 years. The capital area does not have this increased number if there is no change in capitalism; it is to ensure more equality between travel practices, not to disappear from the opportunities of those who want to use a private car, but to the advantage of those who want to make use of other benefits, both those who want to walk and cycle, as well as those who want to use public transportation. There is a need for community support, so our largest means of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is direct on transport and transport emissions of greenhouse gases. So there is, in fact, a chain reaction that leads to our greatest potential in reducing emissions and contributing to international levels of climate targets. It is necessary to increase the share of public transportation in the whole capital area, but it is of course useful to those who continue to use a private car, where it will be more convenient for those it chooses, without a very significant expense to the animal transport workers for their transport. Of course, the urban planning needs to be looked at, but this is being considered separately in the regional structure and also in the main sector of the rural organisations, as well as in the condensation and sustainable terms, as well as the increased potential for public transport. Of course, this is a long - term project, and all of us realize that it is a long - term work that is both expensive and takes very long. But we can see in countries around us and in cities that are similar to the population that this is a task started by the cities, and then there are plans for extending lines that cover many decades of being added every three or five years to stop stations on long lines and that have given tremendous opportunity. As a result, it is important to get started at the survey. In this case, the State's involvement as a stakeholder and support for the activities available to the rural community was found to be recently signed between the European Union in the capital area and the Vega's cooperation in the development of transport systems in the capital area. So some of the work has actually begun. The design of the social transport and sustainable transport strategy in the capital area is reversed as a whole, and this proposal is very effective in providing support for that work. The proposal itself says that the Minister of Internal Affairs is committed in cooperation with the partners of local communities and institutions to have the provision of train transport between the Keflavour airport and Reykjavík on the other hand and a lightest system in the capital area. It shows that the benefits of transportation and defects and possible means will be explored. The costs and benefits of society and economic, environmental and organizational factors will be mainly directed to the eyes. For this purpose, experts will be consulted within the country and outside. So this is a proposal for the future, a proposal to keep an eye on the future prospects in the organization, on transportation, and particularly in the development of the country, including the capital area. I expect the proposal presented by a transverse group to be supported by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u25	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir is a member of Parliamentary affairs presented by members of four political parties. While a review on the Committee is correct, it should be noted that there are opinions on various aspects of this matter, while this matter is agreed on in that it was agreed that it was among the issues that would be established in the field of the council during this spring. In view of my share of environmental and transport committees, which I am involved with. The members of Haraldur Einarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason, in themselves, find a positive attitude that rural areas in the capital area have met together to shape a vision of organizational matters, I refer to the study of train transport in the capital area and to the Cheflavík proposed. We believe that the rural communities will be responsible for the development of the situation at this stage. It has to do with our speculations about how it is best to arrange a business exchange between state and rural society in this respect, but we are in a position to see that the project is huge, that it needs to be examined, and it is clear that there would be a huge charge of the projects referred to here. In view of the circumstances and the discussion of the matter, we agree that under this committee view, we do not consider ourselves to be a basis for taking a materialistic view of the matter, and we will sit next in the council for its payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u26	A respectable president. It is in itself positive that rural areas in the capital area convened to explore the methods of transportation under consideration, especially in the light readings. I have been a great supporter of transportation, and I am speaking to you about whether anything that happens to Smoke. On the other hand, there is some kind of train transport to Keflavík. The problem with both of these suggestions is that they are completely incomplete. There was one meeting on this matter on the Environment Committee, or a violation of a meeting, it was not among the Committee's priorities, and it was not acceptable to the Committee, the government had emphasized a different matter, but this is the Pirat case. In view of the recent approval of the regional organization, however, the intention of the opposition was that this would be a priority for the negotiations conducted between the administration parties, and I don't even comment on it. But I'd like to point one out. It is very difficult to start some kind of practical study when there is no way in which the distribution is a light - reading system and a train link between Keflavík and Hafnarfjords. This brief meeting was arranged for some sort of tunnel to the center of Reykjavík, but if it becomes available, it may be only in the easy - to - read system, which is naturally just a train in the capital area, it should be costing from the number of 40 in the billions. We are now far away from what we spend in the Hospital every year, such are the sums of money. I point out that the margin of error on its own is the total amount of money we spend on all transport in the country, not for a year, not for two years, but perhaps three or four years. To me, then, it is completely unrealistic to go through some kind of practical research while your rural society has not developed this work better. It must also be established whether one thinks of some kind of speed train and whether it is a willingness to perform it. Then I'd like to point out that there's been talk of something and something else about the self - determination rights of a community. I have believed that it can be limited when national and national interests are others. But it must be sobering to think that the message is that all the people of the country should participate in building such a system within the capital area while the State does not have a bearing on public transportation in other parts of the country, i.e. within a single corporation, other than here in the capital. I think that men are in quite a contradiction to themselves when they do not want to discuss that the representatives of all the country are to make a decision about the future of the city's Central Airport, which is, of course, one of the world's most important means of transportation, but they immediately call on it, as soon as they agree to take some step towards a light - reading system that it is the state that knows and is expected to come up to some kind of funding of a dozen, if not hundreds of billions of dollars. There are other vital tasks. They've been called for a new hospital. This process is very expensive. It will probably be the most expensive act of Iceland, it will run at up to 100 billion dollars. I want men to know only the sizes in this area. I'd like to point out something else, too. The agreement between state and capital was made that the state would finance public transportation in the capital area. This was done on the condition that this area would not have major projects for ten years. Then you wonder: " If this is going to happen for 50 billion, do people want to take a major job at that time? Are they ready? I would point out that this case does not seem to have been thought at all, and I'm sorry that there was no more emphasis on it, that we haven't had the time or the schedule to discuss it more on a transport committee. So I agree largely with those who here write under the minority opinion and will not vote for this proposal of mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u27	A respectable president. I have noticed that on transportation there seems to be always a bit of tension between people, more or less of a place to live, about where money should end in the pursuit of transportation. Some people now think it's very special that I, as a member of the city of Reykjavík, am very proselytizing in the way of transportation, including the tunnel and the body of the country, but I always hear that we in Reykjavík should not be paying for some tunnel in the country. I really think it's best to tell the off talk, but I hear the same tone in the speech of the dog. A senator though I give him the fact that this was a very serious speech he gave, and he talks about very large amounts of money, surely these are very large amounts of money. But isn't this something that all of us are supposed to join together as Icelanders to have everything for us, regardless of our home?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u28	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u29	A respectable president. I've been calling for the entire country's airport to decide whether or not it will remain in the Watermur. I've heard that piranha would be willing to handle the case for a national fee, but I would like to point out that they are involved in the hard work within the mayor's section to dispose of it. It's not about national or capital, it's just a question as to whether the state should survive the development of public transport within individual rural communities. It's not customary, it hasn't been used here for decades. True, I mentioned the only exception we have, i.e. The public transportation. This was done under conditions that would not take large measures for ten years. That's the way it was. The state does not run or pay for free bus trips in Akureyri. It is the city of Akureyri, which is a source of it, not all the people of the country. I raised that question and also ask why. A senator because I know that he, especially here, has a feeling, wants the quality of practice, if it wasn't right for the rural communities themselves to develop these ideas better. I don't understand this different from that it's only taking all the early steps, and there must be some way in which this easy-reading system is thought, where it's to come, of what size, whether it's supposed to be completely replaced by a bus or in part. I understand that only part of the bus should be replaced. Somewhere, I could hear it coming only to these largest institutions. These items must be placed before I can agree with it in my place that the state will begin with a practical consideration that is more likely to be considered at home in a country society that has, in fact, called quite strong after its own self - determination rights are holy and that it will be considered more highly respected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u30	A respectable president. It is important to know exactly how to make the best use of transportation for the entire country. Then I am referring not only to specific areas but, for example, transportation between Keflavík and Reykjavík, how to use people in the country, and how to use the Chefavík airport to distribute tourists to land or to establish international airports elsewhere in the country, such as Akureyri, which I find very interesting to think of. I would love to make an economic consideration of it, if I should say exactly what it is. In my opinion, transportation is largely a concern for all the people of the country, perhaps not a bus in Akureyri City, since it is in Akureyritown. The same is true of bus management within the capital area. However, all rural areas are involved in the bus work in the capital area, there are many rural areas, normally, because transportation, the nature of the situation, according to many areas, apart from some rural communities. But when it comes to national pay, I'd like to make it clear that I'm completely interested in them, provided that they can make an informed decision on the subject at any time. I think the Rackham Committee is one step in that direction, but recognizes me completely in favour of people's decisions involving their lives, and that is, in fact, Porita's basic policy. It is part of self - determination. Hv. A senator certainly has my sympathy and understanding in this regard, although the question of organizational authority is also a matter of self - determination. I realize it's not easy to do, it's not necessarily simple. But I wondered if, for example, we were going to a national pay on a certain tunnel in a country, I could not see the point of setting it up in a national law until we were clear on how we are going to keep the whole of our transportation on the land. Only then would we have to agree that we are simply going to have the best of transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u31	A respectable president. Just so it's clear; it's the people of the whole country who make a decision to build a funeral anywhere in the country. All the people have their representatives at the table when making such big decisions, for they have national interests. I have felt that after hearing from company organisations in tourism and nature protection organizations, it is very important to distribute tourists around the country. This is really necessary because it is the compression here on the southwest corner that the traveller's experience might be negative, and everyone will be damaged. There are members here in Reykjavík who have pointed this out. Sadly, there are important and beautiful spheres of nature that have not had the same number of tourists as others have. Therefore, in view of this, would it not be best for us to concentrate on building the two international airports outside of Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Eunice? Don't you think it's a priority? We're talking about a nature protection organization that's thinking about the interests of the whole country. We're talking about the largest national street today, the tourist industry. There are these things I'm pointing at. To me, it is absolutely clear regarding the right of self - determination that it is Generalis to decide by general law, according to the 78th chapter. That's where the Constitution stands, what accounts for this self - determination right. That's very clear. But national interests must come to that end. In this matter it is simply being asked the State to come to an economic consideration of something that I think would need to be developed better before one discussion. That's my opinion. Farmers need to develop this case further, come up with a clearer line on what is involved. [[The president calls.]] Only then would I want to discuss the matter solely as to whether the State should be involved in such projects. [[The president calls.]] I wouldn't agree to it alone, two and bingo for my part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here briefly to celebrate this matter and be glad we're going to accept it. The case has been resolved, although we are unable to complete the case at this council, i.e. A transport plan or proposal to consecrate transport plans. It suggests that the State is involved in this project that the rurals are working on in the capital area with money immediately because this is the way we must go, of course. I can't help but see what's wrong with going into the economics to see if transportation can be improved in the capital area and if transportation can also be supported by parts of the country like Southnes and others. I think it's a good idea, and I think it's entirely possible in the future that there might be a train transport to the urban core near the capital area, to Selephos, Cityness, Ak Aranes, and other places, but it's only natural to look at Cheflavík's end up with millions who travel there and there. This has nothing to do with Reykjavík's airport. I don't understand how people are mixing up discussions about the city of Reykjavík unless they have so much need to talk about it and to promote their views on the matter that they decide to seize every opportunity. Visiting train transports between Reykjavík and Cheflavík has nothing to do with Reykjavík's airport. However, it has to do with an enormous traffic flow between the capital area and that area. This has to do with the possible addition of the ministry to foreign tourists and also to Icelandic citizens, to live outside of the city's and capital area, and to the opportunity to serve there anyway. This is only to strengthen the capital area and close society as one industry and to give people greater opportunities to live and work in that area without having to be in the same spot. I am so happy with what is being done in these matters for all my rural areas in the capital area. I am pleased with what they presented here yesterday, with good ideas about how they envisioned the capital area. It is long time for the rural communities to work together, looking at the capital area as one organizational unit. This is certainly an important step in that situation. As a resident in this area, I have tremendous expectations for this. The area and the capital area are widely distributed, and this can enable us to become even better capital city and even better capital area. This can only make it better to live here and that we are not dependent on the way we are today that large families most likely have two cars for the distance and because we don't have that good public transportation in the capital area. Of course, it depends on where people live and how they can use the bus and whether they are good for it or not. For example, in my case, it doesn't help much. I think it's quite different by where people live whether the bus is suitable. It is also a matter of entering the 21st century. We're getting an enormous number of tourists here. Happily, we are one of the growing nations. We are seeing to it that our community will grow and grow stronger. I think it's an exciting opinion, and of course, the State is to be a part of it. I also see that the state should look forward to perhaps having such a system in many parts of the country. It is normal to look first at the capital area, and for example, we are many here hoping that the construction of Bakka can cause the entire northern region to grow stronger. That could be the chance of a train link between the Akureyris and the towns around it if we look at Siglusund, Dalvík, Húsavík, but this could only be the beginning of the scene here. I think it's really exciting. Such a powerful train could only strengthen that area, east as well, where rural communities work very well together, and there could be a possibility in the future. But somewhere, we have to start. We need to do a practical consideration that includes water costs, so that people can do this with open eyes knowing what these will cost and will then be able to do some planning, and then the benefits of society, economic, environmental, and organizational. This is only absolutely necessary for every community to do, take an observation like this, so we know what we have. This is what politics is all about, i.e. having to look longer, not just for today. We need to look longer. It's part of it, and I'm really happy about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u33	Mr. President. In fact, this fourth suggestion is presented at the council, which was previously transferred from the former Árni. paritaprevir Þór, son of Sigurðsson. It may not be surprising, then, that we have stressed the suggestion here for release. It has been recommended four times, and it was distributed in September during this assembly, although it has not been established on the program until February 18, and you wonder why it takes six months to get members of Congress on the program. A month later the proposal was sent out for review. Meanwhile, very much has happened, since the first motion, and that is what happened. Councilmen have studied in their speeches, a new regional organization of the capital area. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there seems to be something here that breaks all traditional class lines in view of the proposal that there are carriers down. The four panels, the left movement, the green supply, the Conspiracies, the Bright Future, and the Propulsion Party, and under the view of the greater part that supports the issue here are members of the Left Green, Conspiracies, Self - Opportunity, Marty, and Beart's Future. Thus, this matter is supported by all categories. At least I hear that there seems to be some doubt, at least From some categories, and this surprises me, in view of the fact that here, after this regional organization was adopted by the rural areas in the capital area, the entire political spectrum is also seen. In fact, the Independence Party is in the greater part, in the majority of the rural communities, so I expect this case to be supported from there, i.e. if there is. Councilmen in the capital area support their local government who are dealing with these issues. In short, I'd like to say that this has been discussed for quite some time and not as if it were unrefuseable. It has been observed repeatedly in recent years that the public transportation system in the capital area will explode, and it must not take years before any other system is used. That's what rural communities in the capital area are getting together in cooperation with the road generation, which is, of course, part of the public. Then it is either a motor - train system or some kind of speed - moving system. It is clear that the cost is considerable, but there is also a substantial expense in continuing to improve the road system in the capital area. We know, for example, that one misdirected model costs billions of dollars. Thus, costs will always be involved. The question is, What will be the course of transportation? The thought behind this suggestion is to look at the financial and economic, environmental and organizational benefits of society, i.e. how this affects the planning of the capital area, how this affects the environment. We know it's the highest. Environment Minister was presenting a very ambitious climate goal. I can only imagine that much of fulfilling that goal must be considered in Iceland's transport. There, especially in urban areas, we are expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, where public transport can be used to a greater extent than in the country where land is more populated. So should we not look at how we can achieve that effect? This study is primarily suggested. The rural areas in the capital area have already done considerable work, as is shown by an established regional organization in which all classes come in one way or another. But it is important that the State come to that too. The government is, of course, a partner through the Road Building, but I think it's very important that the Allied Parliament is concerned with these policies, since we are also involved in the transport systems of the entire population. Then I am witnessing to the foundation of the capital area and, on the other hand, to the survey proposed here, i.e. looking at the practical routes between Keflavík and Reykjavík. As suggested in the motion - making report, we are also looking at a vast increase in tourist currents, where we have not been able to expand our airport to receive them or to get them around. This was a brief reminder that this is not the first time that this matter is being discussed. There's been plenty of time to discuss the matter. We're actually looking at the state level of government, with its coverage on these matters. At least I think it is important that the European Parliament and our executives on environment and transport are active participants in how we are going to develop a future transport process, whether land or the capital area. Of course, we need to look at the context of the climate targets as well as the organization. I think it's normal for the General to take this step and be involved with our rural society, but don't sit by like some passaholic party to the way we're going to shape the future transport policy. I'm glad that this matter is on the agenda, and I expect it to receive extensive support from all groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u34	A respectable president. I decided to take this opportunity to thank you. A senator for taking this case up at the council and bringing it in. I'd like to ask her honestly if I didn't deserve a discussion on the city city airway. This issue is about the development of transport in the capital area, linking with surrounding settlements, linking with the largest international airport, etc. I think we should be able to accept such practical care without going to run into some foxholes off the airport in Reykjavík, as was done here in a talk by the head of the Environment and Transport Committee. [[Up front.]] I think it's extremely important that we do this on the right terms and, of course, the right ground is built here, and the connection and sponsorship of the capital area of everything is one job area. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. There's some discomfort in this room next to you. Senator. I just want him to come up here in a speech, and I hope he does, because he seems to have something to say about it. I hope he does. But I hope he's not against this case because it's quite important to the capital area as I came into my case earlier. To get caught up in some lowlife that this must be a plot to get rid of Reykjavík's airport is just bullshit. I must say exactly as it is for those who claim to do so to think more of the situation. The Cheflavor airport today cannot take over the domestic flights as much as this. It's been discussed over and over again. You'd have to go there on a huge scale if your internal flight was to be done there. Let's have an open mind. Let us look to the tremendous positive effect this could have. [[The president calls.]] Those who live south with seawater should especially rejoice in this, for this can mean tremendous strength in that area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u35	Mr. President. I'm just going to hope that's what. Councilmen do not view this case as a matter that distinguishes the capital area and the country. I am a great spokesman for international transportation, as well as in the capital area, my evaluation, and can be seen by the way I have voted here at the council in the eight years I've been here. However, I know that the extent to which we are looking in a country where there are widely distributed areas or in the capital area, where we have just the opportunity to promote public transportation, is different. But we need to watch things with a little more eyeglasses as we look at more scattered areas. It's certainly not about the difference. All of us in here must always keep the interests of the whole country in place when we discuss these matters. Of course, this doesn't have anything to do with Reykjavík. If this had something to do with the city airport, it would be in the report on the case. Of course, in recent years there is a very careful consideration of the fact that the traffic through Keflavík Airport has increased dramatically, far beyond the predictions previously produced by men. It is only natural, therefore, that we look at transport between the capital area and the Keflavour Airport. During the course of 2003,2012, the number of passengers who traveled through the Cheflavík Airport grew by 40%, exceeding 1 million in the first time in 2012. In 2013 there was a record increase in the number of international tourists in the region, or 20.7% the first year, when 781 thousand foreign tourists crossed the Cheflavour Airport. As I arrived earlier in my speech, this has been evident, among other things, in the expansion of South American Air Station, Leifs son of Erik, and we also see a huge lump in the development of Southnes. This is primarily about how we can better connect if it is considered practical. Of course, construction is not being proposed, but it is now being suggested that the official will see how we can best address the development of tourists. I don't believe in anything but what. Congress officials consider it a responsibility to ensure that this will be done as well as done, i.e. • ensuring transport from the Keflavík International Airport. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u36	A respectable president. I want as many people today to celebrate this case. I consider this long-term study of transport, which is of great importance to all the people in the country so that we can live here with sustainable, long-term transport. It's not that small. It's important for Southnes. It's a cold area that's been on the line for years and decades. By connecting Southnes by means of train transportation to Reykjavík, they become part of the area where they work in Reykjavík. I understand why. paritaprevir That damn expensive idea is to Þórhallsson's head. A lot of transport benefits are involved. There's a tunnel that's running into the 10 to 20 billion pieces. I don't cry that money if he helps people to keep their country in, if he helps people live where they want to live, and if that money helps people live well. I want to say something. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, the daughter of her dreams, likely in a faraway future, said that trains would link more settlements, Selephos, urbannes, and even more. It is all about tying part of the country and breaking down the wall that some see between capital and national. We're on one land. We're few, and we can't afford to act like we're on a killing stake between the country and its capital. I suppose since I'm standing here on my third day in this hall, it's time for me to comment on the subject, as it were. I would especially like to point out this matter as an example of the fine tactics of the council. In the preceding discussion, I heard that a certain senator had some doubts about the matter, but this matter must be looked forward to by four members, including the senators of the forward party. Here, government and government opposition are agreed on to present a case of transportation, all of which matter to us, whether we live in the capital or in the country, whether we are candidates or left - green and whether we are alive or after our children. We're talking about sustainable, long-term transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u37	A respectable president. I would like to correct a few things, and again I noticed that I said that I was positive about the fact that my rural communities had reached this agreement, in order to maintain it. I said it very clearly. I'm imagining what's happened. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, listened to my speech and listened to my words. I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to declare my disappointments about the kind of shit I had to endure. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. It's not the first time. I wasn't mixing Reykjavíkur airports into the discussion unless I mentioned it on the name, if they had listened, that when they discuss their own private rights, they'd talk as if it's only smoke, capitalists, or representatives of the capital, who have been completely self-involved about whether the airport is going or going. However, when it comes to organizing a small - reading system that will become part of the public transport system in Reykjavík, it is all right for residents in Western, northern, and Eastern lands to pay not only for economic consideration but also for the structure at its time. I think it's worth considering. It was in that context that I mentioned the discussion of the city city area of Reykjavík. Otherwise, I didn't mention Reykjavíkur Airport in connection with this case. I regret that this is a long speech in which it was suggested that I said something that I have not said at all with all kinds of coverts and false stories. I just agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and I'm glad that there's a wide rift of convergence and members of all classes on the case, I like that. I hope he agrees with me about half of a meeting, few reviews, and almost no discussion in a committee that doesn't count as a good practice. Then I'd like to come to one thing. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I agree with her. That is exactly what we should think about transportation. That is what I have done and have talked about it and, in fact, did it in my first speech. But when we talk about tunnels and when we talk e.g. about land or otherwise, we can't help discussing the cost. It seemed to me that the government was completely unscheduled by the use of numbers. It was certainly noted that the cost would be high, but we're not talking about, like, a hundred and twenty billion or something, we're talking about the figures in between 40 to 6 billion, and then we're talking about a train or some kind of speed train between Cheflavour and Hafrafjörður would cost 35 billion, that's what I'm talking about. Then we will discuss the tunnel that will come to the capital area and be called on the committee, who will likely run at tens of billions of dollars. I'm just pointing out, and hoping that men don't understand it any different, that I think the rurals need to develop their work further. That's the main thing in this matter. Developing more work, agreeing on where to lead, how to visualize, and first to discuss whether to use practical care. I have to say, just as it is, when people talk about trains all over the country, to Seleucos, and up on Acdérin and other things, I used to roll over the environmental factors. I'm not saying we have trains all over the country. I think it's unrealistic in the light of human birth. We're a small country. These have been cited as an example of light - reading systems in one or two cities. I'm sure there are more cities that are just as small to consider. I think if we take all of Europe as a whole, maybe it's just these two cities to think about it, and all the other guys don't think about it because people have to be responsible when they talk about financial resources. Here it was claimed that this case was before addressed, upcoming in the last government. I would like to know why the last government didn't agree with a similar case. I don't know exactly when it was first submitted, but I understand that it was. I wondered, then, if they haven't looked at the money. I think it's irresponsible to talk about a dozen dollars, even hundreds of billions of dollars without tore it in any way from where they should come from, from where to collect their income. If they are not going to get income or something like that, what team will they take from them? We're spending a lot of money on health care, and it's been a priority for this government. I think responsible men need to talk. Other than that, I want to reiterate what I said earlier. I have a positive view that the rural community wants to begin this journey. If it is the will of the local community in the capital area, I will support it, but I cannot support it at this point in my affairs that a state is being made to pay for economic care and strongly oppose the efforts of the entire country's inhabitants to pay for building up some dozen or hundreds of billions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u38	A respectable president. I don't like being any kind of a member of the Parliament about doing a shit attack. I thought I was discussing the matter objectively and materially and clearly. A senator accuses me of a shit attack and says there's something I'm doing here and he's used to it from this senator. I want to go. A senator would argue with references to my words. It may well have been that I repeated his talk about his opposition to this matter, that she was concerned about the fear that the city's airport would be inside the picture, and they were going to take advantage of the trip and set him up as a cat - nosed man, and I'd be glad to ask for credit if I've associated it with one another for shame. But to be good for a shitstorm and that I'm doing it shall be reasoned by examples, in other things, I don't sit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u39	A respectable president. I'll take your apologies, of course. I thought it was a shitstorm in a word. A senator when I was asked to say things other than what I had said. I also pray for respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u40	Mr. President. I am kind and obliged to make some comments to a talk. paritaprevir Fear of Höskuldur, son of Þórhallsson. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u41	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u42	As mentioned in my talk, this proposal has been previously proposed. It was for the filming of the 2007,228th convention. A senator asked. She has been moved at intervals several times and has had a few coverages. I'd like to say, for what? A senator feels irresponsible to be discussing this case because it will cost something, that I agree that this will cost something. I made that clear in my speech. But I think it's a responsibility that we try to get those numbers straight and go on a practical basis to assess the cost, so that the discussion is not about one saying that maybe it costs billions and others say the other. Should this not be our goal? This is not the private community in the capital area, for I clearly missed that the public is involved in the transport system in the capital area through the fundamentals. For this, all the inhabitants of the country pay just like all the people in the country pay for their roads across the country. Right away. A senator says that he does not feel that it is the role of the State to establish such a system in the capital area, I say: It is not a matter of the capital area's private interest in the finance of its fundamentals. Don't think so. Senator that, I can't believe it was a meaning of why. Senator. We in the capital area are happy to pay for international transportation. We senators in this hall must be thinking about the interests of the whole country, and the same must apply to the capital area for the foundation system. When we're looking at the root system in the capital area, of course it takes to maintain it. I reviewed it in my case. For example, it costs to build a misdirectioned mold on the foundation, which is paid for by the road model. The same can be said of this. I must have misunderstood. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u43	A respectable president. I could honestly believe that the senator had misunderstood me. First of all, I want to say something about basics. It is true that they are paid from the common fund of the whole country, but it is also the representatives of all the people of the country who make the decision to establish funding in the construction of these foundations, that is not just done in the capital area, that is, around the country. I'm pointing up, and I'd like to hear why. A senator does not support me in not representing the entire country that determines the fate of Reykjavík airport. Therefore, when my community in the capital area or in the country of Reykjavík makes it seem unnatural to me that it is the privateity of Smoking to see whether this major transport will go or happen, but then it adds to the other side that all the people of the country are paying for building on a public transport system that I can't better see than at home in individual rural communities, just as public transportation is at home around the country. That's what I'm pointing at. Of course, it is absolutely irresponsible to come here, and that was what I mentioned, saying that there must be some vision of the future for a 300 thousand people who will likely increase in the number of trains around the country or for the major urbanity, probably with an extra tunnel under the Halfland tunnel. I feel that when people say such ideas, they also have to say that they realize that it costs not just tens of billions but hundreds of billions and that they can also give evidence of how they're going to get their income, increase their financial income, and hold the cost, even if this would not be in the near future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u44	Mr. President. I feel irresponsible not to discuss the suggestion under here. I feel irresponsible not to discuss the fact that this is a suggestion for economic research on a public transport system that is about how we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport, which is the main source of greenhouse gas emissions. I was here referring to the ambitious climate goals of the highest. Environment Minister. I think the General should be discussing these matters. I don't think it's part of the local community how they plan transportation. I think it's a cooperation project. That's what's being suggested here. The rural areas in the capital area are very positive about seeing this as a cooperative project, for the very part of the transport system of the capital area is involved, whether or not we will continue to build up a foundation in the same way as we have been, or whether we are going to go somewhere else. In order to meet the goals established by the government itself, to form in climates, to take action on environmental factors, and to respond to changing emphasis on the organization that is being viewed on a more densely populated and each cost. It has been discussed in detail here on this matter at the Assembly Hall. I don't know the Commission coverage. Hv. A senator leads her work, of course, to his responsibility for what she has been like. [[Up front.]] It is absolutely clear, Mr. President, that very many cities and urban areas of our size are taking up such systems just to meet environmental issues, organizational goals and economic goals. These include Odinsvé and Álaborg, Denmark, Bergen, Norway, Le Mans, France, areas of similar size and area. I just don't see how anyone could object that we're investigating this option in cooperation with the State and the local community because that's what this is all about. No one here is making a hundred billion investment, not any human. This is where the State is suggesting that this work be done by the local community. I can only believe that someone is opposed to such an examination so that the discussion at the council can become more informed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u45	A respectable president. It is perfectly normal for the road to come up with some ideas within the individual rural community. It's done around the country. It's so different whether the State should be supplying a flow of practicality with the same magnitude as this one. It has been published in a practical study of various organizational factors, how to improve the level of employment and other activities, without the paying of the State. In fact, rural areas on the north and out of the island have agreed to investigate how to increase flights and flights. The government hasn't paid for these studies. I'm just pointing out, more dignified President, that if they're going to pay for this, at least there's one way or another that these ideas have been developed. Let's just get into the climate. My opinion is that greenhouse gas emissions can be conserved by such light - reading systems. I assume the trains are going to go for electricity, right? There's a place where the power needs to come. We've been arguing in the country about the continuum transfunctioners, the geothermals, etc. Hv. A senator has not been pleased with the fact that I have been found. Other than that, I find that a train is not a particularly beautiful means of transportation, so I just say it clean, especially above Hellishek, to Acdines, or over beautiful lava. I wondered, " Is it any further to me?'And if it wasn't more realistic that the country's electricity system, if it wasn't closer? [[The president calls.]] I don't agree with what. Senator. I think it's possible to achieve all the goals in climates that she mentioned before but only in a different way than the ones she's headed for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u46	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the Committee to conduct a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes (targets, management and general regulations), from a majority of the health committees. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought in a number of visitors. At the same time, there were reviews from a number of defenders. With the permission of the president, I'm going to review the committee opinion of the greater part. The bill is part of a global review of social security laws, No. 100/2007. It is presented concomitantly with the bill to legalize social security insurance and take into account a bill on the social ruling committee. It is therefore aimed at making social security laws clearer and accessible and adaptable. There are proposals to change the protocol of social security on the Committee as Minister of Social Services in November 2013. It is determined that this committee will produce results later in the summer. Two. c-arms 2. g. The bill states that on the act of the law and the operation of the insurance agency, funds are being used in the most practical way. The greater part suggests that the law will be canceled, for it is by default that public funds should be used as the most economic means and that there should be special recommendations in the social security laws. I'm going back to that check on the location of the U.S. National Insurance Agency. Many members and members of the Committee criticized the proposed secretary's authority to determine the location of the Insurance Agency and its Service Centre on Article 2. The bill, and it felt more desirable that it was under law. For one thing, they reasoned that making a decision about the location could be better ensured by a professional basis and a good access to the services of an insurance agency. It should be noted that following the presentation of the greater number of welfare committees, the following amendment was made on the bill, which is up to d-joints 2.g. Cut off, which is about the location of the National Insurance Agency and Service Centre, so it will remain unchanged from the current social security legislation. Communicating will improve pension insurance and accident insurance. The majority suggest that we add references to the health insurance laws in Article 3. ... anda teamniner. The bill complies with Iceland's Medical Insurance tips. For the same reason, the majority suggest that the last part of Section 4 of the 9th chapter. The bill goes away, but in addition to a new material on the basis of biofuels already paid a pension according to the Social Security Act, it should be taken into account by the calculation of microenergy money for the same period. Prisons, custody, and other facilities. The 1st matter. 56. g. The law on social security now states that if a person is sentenced to prison or in other ways ruled as a resident in some institution, any compensation to him after four months of continuous imprisonment or stay should be brought to nothing. A-a-team 16. The bill is planned to recommend that the penalties of penalties be punished, protected, or otherwise determined to stay in an institution should all benefits be lost to him. Social security spending is primarily aimed at meeting costs in the implementation of those whose social security laws include and need for it. Hence, it is only natural for him to take into consideration those who remain in institutions where the public pays the full or part of their living arrangements. Yet, if pension payments disappear as soon as an institution begins, it may be difficult for them to meet their financial obligations. This is especially true when saving begins suddenly and unexpectedly, such as in the case of protective custody. This may be an incompetent act against individuals who are considered innocent until proven guilty. So the majority suggests a change in a- team 16. the bill, which includes maintaining a person in custody or in another way being decided to stay in an institution, but not by punishment, retain the four-month extension for which it is currently appropriate. Dosing during the period of the period should take into account the protective pensioner's specific improvements in accordance with the regulations of the fourth act of the joint. The majority of the items suggest a 25th degree. the bill will be reviewed on January 1, 2016, instead of January 1, 2015, which has already been carried out. The U.S. Department of Insurance has emphasized that contributions and rights work are being used for years. As a result of the implementation of January 1, 2016, the Commission's legislation on the social decision-making committee is also being adopted in accordance with the Commission's legislation on the social judgment committee. Social security and pension funds stocking with disability companies. Rules in agreement with Article 24. And the b-compence of the second number, and the third number twenty-three. The bill was established by law on the change in social security laws, social assistance laws, and commitment insurance laws and the operation of pension funds, No. 137/2014. So the majority suggest that these regulations of the bill be removed. 2nd matter of 25th par. The bill is mistakenly referred to Article 23. And b- men the second number, and the third number, twenty-five. Instead of 24. And b- men the second number, and the third number 26. gr. Where the majority suggest that 24th. And b-aide to number two, and number three to number 26. If he goes away, he also proposes the 2nd sentence of the 25th parr. ... they'llgetaway. Ordinary adjustments. The Committee gave many suggestions for changing the bill, which included material changes to the current social security regulations beyond what the bill expects. Among the suggestions were to be discussed about working performance assessments and forwardpoints, that the period in which individuals maintain insurance protection in spite of foreign studies, such as E- team 1. The bill, an extension, would be extended to prosecuting the basis, condition, or sum of funds according to the law, as 2 mg. g-huts 2. The bill would be extended to provide compensation for nonpayers or candidates, such as Article 11. The bill, like 1st, would be taken away by the beginning of the reform rights. 13th par. the bill, generalised by application day, was that improvement was done afterwards rather than in advance, as 2 mgr. 13th par. The bill, on the authority of treaties, compare with Article 20. the bill, would be changed, and that a insurance agency would be authorized to reimburse rural financial support that they have provided to individuals who were waiting for their fees on the basis of social security legislation. The committee has overstepped suggestions and gives valid reasons for many of them. However, the majority feel that they will be treated more highly with a physical review of social security laws rather than with an existing bill, which is mainly in the form and format of the law. So the majority of the items do not provide suggestions for changing the bill in relation to these factors. The majority suggest that the bill will be approved by the adjustment made in a special Senate document, and I'm going to briefly review it now. The modifications are as follows: 1st 2 mg. c-arms 2. g. (10. g.) ... goout. 2. At Section 3. A new joint will be added, as follows: After these words, the statutes of these and the fourth verses follow. it comes to: the laws on social security accidents. 3. A team 9. Put it this way: 1,◯4. mg phrases like: No one at the same time can use more than one type of paid improvements under these laws and the social security laws due to the same incident or for the same period unless there are specifically some. Yet, a pensioner, along with pension payments, can be improved and funded that is intended to meet the calculated cost of the same incident. If a payer has the right to more types of benefits than one by the laws of these or the social security laws that cannot be met, he should be paid higher or highest. If an individual improvements according to other laws for the same period of compensation are paid according to these laws, they should be considered to be the calculation of income-related improvements according to the details of these laws. If a pensioner has already received a pension in accordance with the social insurance licenses, it should be taken into account in the calculation of the microenergy pension due to the general disability of the same period. 4. Case one and two. ...men at 16. Puts it this way: Now the penitentiary serves the penitentiary in prison or will deliberately avoid serving punishment and then fall to him any compensation, such as 53. g. The seat of pensionary custody, or if he is otherwise sentenced to stay in an institution, shall be reduced to him after four months of continuous custody or stay. 5. 24th par. ... goout. 6th 25. Put it this way: This law translates into force on January 1, 2016. 7. B-duty number 2. and number 3. Twenty-six. ... goout. Under these adjustments, the majority of the segment and, under the view of a greater part of the welfare committee, are the following: Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bridar Níelsson, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, and Páll Pálsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u47	A respectable president. I recommend here for the Committee to conduct my part of the welfare committee. A smaller proportion of the Committee agree with the main objective of the bill to make the social security laws clearer and accessible, and to repair nodiers, but to counter changes proposed in the bill. At the time of the committee's review, it was two remarks made by the lesser part, but since then it has been suggested that a minister have automate on the location of the insurance agency fall down, so that these comments in my committee party run over. It remains that the A- force is on the 16th floor. The bill is suggested that pensioners, who suffer punishment in prison, receive custody, or otherwise be ruled to stay in an institution, fall immediately down rather than after a four-month stay, as now stated in the 1st issue. 56. g. pricing on social security The smaller portion of the bill feels that it is a blow to the point that a major material change in the rights of the people in the bill is aimed at restricting the rights of a group of people who are bent on perpetuity. In particular, in the case of the keepers, it is unnatural, for they are considered innocent until their guilt is proved. A position to impair the rights of microenergy pensioners who are under custody or are sentenced to prison needs to give more evidence than do a paper with the bill and provide a general overview of prison rights for work or money. The minority requested more detailed information about this proper prisoner, but they feel that they have not received a clear picture that justifies the impairment of their rights to the disability pay during the first four months of imprisonment. It would be more appropriate to refer this provision to a committee who is now working on a global review of social security laws. This second law, which opposed or later conversion of prisoners' rights, has made several changes in the activities of the greater part, as explained, but the smaller portion still feels that it is a significant change of subject to a population that is in the community and not in accordance with the primary objective of the bill. So the lesser part will not support the bill. Under these publications. Councilmen Sigríður Ingadóttir, chairman and spokesman, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Árnadóttir Þóra Auradótir, and the one standing here, will be the deputy of Steinunn Þóra.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u48	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Commission's alumnuity and the economic and business filing proposals for a bill to legalize the financial law, no. 161/2002. You can find the aforementioned opinion on this subject. One hundred fifty-nine and the rest of the motion on deck. 1510. I will now swerve the main points of the committee's opinion in very short terms. The bill suggests that there are changes in legal requirements for financial enterprises in terms of work permit, risk monitoring systems, active holdings, management and staff of financial companies, internal management practices, financial document policies and financial resources remuneration, high-risk commitments, auto-authorities, permission for Ministers to adopt Regulation (EU) No 37/2010. 575/2013 in Icelandic rights, permission for Ministers and UNECE to implement technical initiatives and technical monitoring standards of the European Commission as well as the changes to the legal framework in harmony with the above changes. The committee received 21 reviews. A number of material observations were made, which the committee thoroughly reviewed to a number of meetings with representatives of the commission and the Ministry. There were some opinions in the outworking of the case with the committee, including Tips that it is normal to be more demanding for large financial companies in terms of risk management, limitation of their variable remuneration and value of personal funds because of the systematic importance of these enterprises and the damage that society can experience in case of problems with such enterprises. It has been observed that credit services in the country depend directly on the payment of the depositors and therefore there is reason to place strict demands on loans in terms of the payment of variable worksheets. There were also doubts about the right to allow bonuses to be paid for the staff of financial security companies. In view of the facts and the work of the Committee, there are several changes to the bill, as further discussed in a committee study. First, the section of the bill for work policy and a variable profession is thought to need changes, and reviews about the bill contained very different opinions on the rules of variable employment. There were also different opinions on possible implementation but there are agreements that there should be no risk factors for employees in financial companies and particularly not in regard to systematic relevant enterprises or institutions. The Commission feels that the articles dealing with work policy and variable remuneration will not be submitted at this time, but they suggest that they can improve the current financial policies of the Commission on the buying system will be supported. Most other changes proposed by the Committee take into account comments related to the clarity of wording, legal aspects and according to EU Directive No. 36/2013. However, 3 mg. Twenty-niner. The bill is a separation of the fact that the manager and executives have completed a university test that was useful in their work. The Commission, however, believes that people can have useful knowledge, education, and experience that can be used in the management of financial companies, even though they have not completed university studies. The Commission points out that at any given time, the SEC can still take a special look at the management board and the executives. So the committee suggests that the requirements of the bill for the completion of a university test are the condition of the Commission and the management board. In this way, there is a greater wide range of combinations of financial companies without compromising the demands for the fit of the executives. The bill proposes new rules on four new automortems, which add 8% of the law's private capital, and the Commission's claim on higher financial resources. Budgets are designed to reduce system risk and support financial stability, but such devices have gained greater importance in international markets after major financial markets during the past few years. The Committee gave the opinion that it is advisable to introduce your personal funds earlier than expected in the bill. It was noted that the automatons have already been introduced in the other northern parts of the world. Then big banks have their own position strong now, and it is advisable to maintain that position in the light of the planned decomposition of capital abduction. The committee agrees with the controversial viewpoints and proposes that the renovation of the individual funds will be hurried. The Commission also stresses that for the induction of your financial assets, you will be careful to distinguish between large system-wide important enterprises and smaller financial institutions, so that there will be no more financial allowances than necessary. A respectable president. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment proposed in Article 1510. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, an officer on the committee, supports the hearing. It's under the heading "Why." Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman and spokesman, Akni Páll Árnason, Brabbur Níelsson, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir J. Sigfússon, Miss Konráðsdóttir Konsá, Vilmur Bjarnason, and Willum Þórsson Tursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u49	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize the Iceland Board of Directors, with subsequent changes, from a greater part of the Commission and Control Committee. The committee has discussed the matter again after the second issue. and especially 1st. The bill allowing Ministers to determine the residence of the institutions, unless it is otherwise recommended by law. This law has been disputed, but the greater part believes that this document is a normal part of the minister's administrative authority in general. There is not much difference between institutions or other aspects of the organization, so a minister would normally have this authority. To meet the current viewpoints, mainly on how this may affect the number of people making such decisions, it is considered correct that prior to making such a decision, the General secretary of the Council gives a report on the proposed transport, providing what a controversial view lies behind the move and how the selection of a new organisation should be prepared. Such a report is expected to be given to the council before any decision is made. So the majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following change: 1st We're on 1st. Add a new case, as follows: Before the decision to move to the centre of the Agency, the secretary should provide a report to the General of the Council on the planned transport. 2. Count 9. put it this way: This law has already been valid. But the latter shall be Article 1. not valid until September 1st, 2015. Under count of more of the Committee, i.e. Andersen, and Hauksdóttir, the daughter of Garðarsson, and Willum Þór, the Karl of Þórsson,
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u50	V.E.G. President. As noted by the President, I recommend my section of the Board of Directors and Observers, but he orders in addition to me, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and Manda Hjörvar. After 2nd. This assembly was decided to take it back into the committee on two grounds, to establish its wishes, and to predict that a change in motion was predictable. The minority counts this as an adjustment to the major part, and with the backup form of the committee at the same time. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, be improved, but the change assumes that a minister cannot bring an institution into his own interest, so he must have submitted a report to the council where there is evidence for the move. This law could still be violated in our opinion by making approval of the Generals as conditions for the transfer of the Agency. This would be normal and improve. However, the important thing is to ensure that there is a material assessment and that there is a grammatical debate about the possibility of transport before the procedure would take place. I am stressing that this is a moving motion that will benefit us, although it might have gone further, is very much for our judgment. I recommend the approved change of motion. Nevertheless, the smaller portion wants to reiterate opposition to the bill and points to its members at Article 3. The bill on legalization of certain Ministers committees and considers such a change to be made without a thorough review and careful debate over the political significance of such changes. The members of the smaller section have given detailed evidence of this need in the discussion of the matter, both on the committee and also in a discussion of the matter here at the council Hall. Six. The bill suggests that a minister will be permitted to set up ◯ special labour units and the Ministry Office, as it is called in the bill, the profession as part of the Ministry, by his own will, and without the approval of the General Assembly. The minority feels that this law is unclear and that it is very unambiguous. It would be more fortunate to have this proposal for a law - changed opinion and further discussion. This leads to the memory of a union envelope and a rapid argument in a conference discussion against the approved bill's sources to transfer employees between recruitment and institutions. The minority is strongly opposed to the 8th paragraph. The bill, which includes the establishment of a harmonisation committee on moral standards for the administrations, and that the Ministry of the Presidency will, instead, be granted authority regarding the interpretation of ethical rules when looking for it... The minority feels that the intention to direct this work at the Presidency Department is treacherous and very reprehensible. I read up those members of the council who have their names under this committee party, but I'd like to find out specifically that Brynhildur St Pétursdóttir's daughter, an officer of the Board and Control Committee, is willing to accept this. In short, the new proposal reported from the greater part of the management and monitoring committee is a great improvement, and for my part, I will accept it. But I will vote against the bill when it is completed in its entirety because it contains a very thoughtless factor that is dangerous to legalize.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u51	Mr. President. This is a vote for the measures taken by the fish in so - called small pots, social, social, and job arrangements of resources. We left greens indicate that the next year's fish market, 3,000 tons running into this part of fishing, will be arranged to be added to 1,000 tons in coastal fishing and added to the construction level to make it 5,400 tons and increase nearly 2,000 tons. We feel very strongly about increasing these two factors that have produced the most widely distributed sea settlements in urban development. We also suggest that these measures be considered only for one year, where these things are being considered, and that we reexamine them for the next fishing year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u52	V.E.G. President. We believe that the proportion of emissions of total daily volumes is 5.3%, too low. We believe that it needs to increase the proportion and reorganize how it is arranged to make the most of it. However, at the stand of the government, we have attended several meetings in which the switch is taking place. These matters should be evaluated and considered better during the winter, and I have hoped that there will be an even more powerful approach to the government, taking into account its willingness to do so. This is of vital importance and is not a personal matter for the greater part of the time. So I encourage the administrative part to include the administrative memory for the work and the progress of the previous year's review of this section. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u53	A respectable president. We in the United States will support this proposal. We've agreed to the evidence that has been presented for the transfer of Indominization to a novelty party. It is a great victory for what we have built with the laws in this country for the protection and use of natural prices, which include the loss of the administrative sector to reinvent changes that it attempted to address across legal processes, incursion of the past winter. It is vital that we continue to maintain the good laws and maintain a solidarity among the people on the use and protection of our natural resources. Let us hope that during the following winter and winter, we will be able to uphold these principles for our benefit all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u54	Mr. President. In this matter, there are two basic aspects of intertime politics, the treatment of resources, how we interact with nature, the environment, and how we use this same nature and environment, and how we want to see the structure of employment. In the left movement, we want to see a wide variety of employment structure based on a wide range of support and to be very careful about our dealings with the resources of this country, since we do not view it as our private affairs, which live here, how we use to form the water supply in this country. Already, we've activated half the power of water. We feel that it is important to keep the interests of future generations in mind when we make such decisions. In this regard, we want them to have the doubt and to weigh the perplexing arguments that have been tore up in this discussion about wild salmon, which, of course, is a resource that cannot be estimated for financial gain. [[The president calls.]] So we will resist this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u55	A respectable president. How disappointing it is that the outcome of the matter is the way it is seen and the double - skindness that has marked the discussion in remarkable terms and has no precedent in the council! It is reflected in votes or when discussing the votes of those who have already spoken. It's the double-skin-ish thing by the dog. A foreman of the left green, talking about nature enjoying the doubt. They support the implementation of hydrocarbon, geochemists in order to generate energy on the Backwater industry, which pollutes seven times more on the produced tons than on aluminium - and this is their case, at the same time as left greens, prevents normal structures from taking place in the south of the country by activating in the lower part of Forest wounds, with the least of the environmental impact occurring, as seen in all views of other activations in the country. I'm sorry that the debate is in this way, i.e. So indistinguishable, indeed. [[The president calls.]] But as I said in my speech yesterday, "The first half has come to an end. It is now halftime, and the second half will begin, and it will begin in style."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u56	A respectable president. I believe that when a project management comes up, it should produce a list of activations. It has been stated, and in accordance with the law, that the task management is to deal with large numbers of activation ideas and to sort them into different categories. So I disagree with the methodology used here, where one priming option is taken out. This proposal, however, has been an improvement in the fact that project management has recommended the transfer of this provision from a waiting category to use. Nevertheless, I personally believe that there is no reason to shift between classes of whale activation. I base my view on the conviction that the consequences of this amendment of ecosystems and life's wounds have not yet been demonstrated. I also believe that the concept of activation can be based simply on the simple view that you want to have a landscape the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u57	President. Then, at last this matter has come into its final operation at the General Assembly after a major conflict with the changes made from a professional committee. I have to say, I don't feel comfortable with the box as it is, but this is the only way to get some professional activity around these difficult matters is by what to activate and what to protect. The task management recommended these activation options, so I find it difficult to say no, for in that case I must be in some way contradicting the process. This is the only frame we have, I want to respect that frame. Besides, I can't say yes, so I'm going to sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u58	Mr. President. It is in this kind of conflict that needs strength. There need to be guidelines to ensure that long-term policy development can be carried out on issues related to protecting nature and using natural resources. They are successful because they have set values. When it is handled, there must be a basis for the game. What I am so happy about is that we were able to make sure that the frames that were created during the last term were not exceeded. We didn't go outside the box. Right away. The head of the Professional Road Committee, Jón Gunnarsson, says it's only a half game now and then the game begins again in the fall, I hope that everyone can move on within the box, that they don't start taking the ball off and so try to cheat. I hope we can stay in the playground at this game.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u59	Mr. President. All of this has been the strangest thing since they came into this council with a minister's proposal for Hagming. A professional health - care committee has played many intermediate games in the country's mess with environmentalists. I don't think there's anything we can do to try on a certain major project in our water spills. It's just not available. It's an old-fashioned thought that Iceland and I are better off. [[Up front.]] I believe we should respect all procedures. I am glad that this issue has come to the place it is, but I am also very critical. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has taken so few advantages and, in fact, forced a project regime to suggest a one who would have been better accepted into a larger stream for observation. It is my opinion that this option should take a comprehensive view where he will receive a professional classification. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u60	Mr. President. Of course, I especially rejoice that a majority of the employment committees at the front. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son has been broken backwards. However, there are several phases in the national environmental struggle. Hv. True, a senator, despite the downtrodden, proclaims an ongoing war like this in the escape of other politicians who think he is the source. That's his problem. As for the suggestion to induce Hagmic activation into a novelty party, the obvious fault is that a single series of activation is being proposed, one option. It would be minimal for Idolation to continue with the second activation option in the lower part of During the Year and in general and then be reorganized as part of a larger population. When it comes to taking a stand on the fortress in the lower part of the Red Sea, the person here feels that it is not justified and will never be justified. One of the largest wild salmon stocks in the North Atlantic, ocean-burning, and more fish and the whole environment, and the environment should enjoy the doubt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I disagree completely with the proposal for both formal and material reasons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u61	A respectable president. I'm sorry that those who have promoted democracy do not respect it more than in the memory of their efforts to prevent more part of the employment committee and the greater part of the Council to create jobs and expand the nation's exports, to use the resources of the country to create a better standard of living for the people of the country. I'm sorry. I thought at those times, when there's been a great deal of pay lately and living conditions compared with neighboring countries, that someone in here did not think that we needed to use all the resources to create the highest standard of living and comparable living values for the people of the country and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u62	A respectable president. You can read about the horse purchases in this case in a book or two. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. During the winter of this council, for almost five days the President's conference board has been spoken. I've called it a minor abuse, and that's the right thing to say. This time the government of the left green and the United States conquered, but this is a defeat for their professional life in the country and the prosperity of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u63	A respectable president. Now we've reached the end point in this frame plan. It's been a long, hard journey. I'm especially glad to hear it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson drew back to the sound of the war proposal that made this project repetitious during the winter. I hope the majority of the material learned from it. I'd like to say in addition to what has already been said about the content and content of the proposal under discussion, and the one here is opposed to my being at the highest level. Environment Minister - underneath it will hear a frame plan, extramarital, and management framework - in order to provide especially the protection part of a framework, which has been completely placed and funded both by the Environment Ministry itself and by the EEA. I expect the Minister to bring us together to glorify the reservation with handsome financial contributions in the budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u64	V.E.G. President. Implementation plans for the EEA have been described as a race for how fast we are able to destroy our country in the big business, how fast the government and the government are able to destroy Iceland for the sake of a major industry. [[The high-temperature?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u65	It's a VG present.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u66	We've talked a lot about frame planning and individual activations without real debate over energy needs. What for? A few years ago, members of the left movement were walking along the Major, where we now saw the projections from land induction that knew it would be activated, and they had enough help at the General Assembly. Now it's becoming reality, unfortunately. I will not share in this joy. I'm gonna stand with Senator. I'll say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u67	A respectable president. I'm glad that the situation ended. I will vote with this case. I view the box as a compromise between those who want to activate everything and don't want to activate, and I respect what comes from the project management. So I'll be on the green button.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u68	A respectable president. I don't think it's a good idea to take one of the tiles out of the frame and enter a special vote for it, then we're back at the same place as before the national protection and energy-efficient programme went into effect. Besides, I don't think the environmental evidence recommends this activation. I believe it's time for the people who live below to enjoy peace, for decades now, that this small community has been infuriated. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u69	A respectable president. The State Department continues its campaign to reduce the income of all of our joint resources, reduce the price of hunting costs, and, when all is understood today, after this last event, as members of the Parliament boast themselves at the General Hall, they will have managed to lighten their annual fishing fees to a total of 9 billion. This money may be the means by which we are using important transportation to restore our health system so that we can be proud of it and that it works. We could be building a nursing home. We could be ensuring that equipment for those who are ill and who are in requests in hospitals, unable to get to a nursing room, etc. It continues on a journey that the Conspiracy cannot support, which is to desolate us, the people of the country, from common resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u70	Mr. President. We're paying a vote for hunting fees or the bill that's set here. One more trip to hunting costs is being guided from the time that this greater proportion began. The methodology clearly does not work as you considered and does not reflect the contribution of the enterprises, but there is no information available for which companies are looking for tax reports, but it is requested. This application is much more like taxation, and the fishing costs continue to decrease. It is the most unremarkable, and firms in the bullfish and upfront sector, the big companies, making money on the toe and finger, and making money that they are well qualified to pay higher than it does. But the majority continue to guide this, even though there is a great profit there. [[The president calls.]] I think, and we green, that the more part is responsible for the hunting fees, the price has to be set, but we disagree completely with their implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u71	A respectable president. Once again, the song will begin with you. The head of the United States for abduction of income, for which employment can be further reduced, should be used to build a strong health system and a powerful welfare system. We're doing that, while we're reducing the law on people in our country, while cutting down the job in our country, we're putting more money on the health system than we've ever done. And we are strengthening our welfare system and will continue in that course. What is of interest in this discussion is: Where are the suggestions for the rise in fishing costs? We haven't seen them on a professional committee, they haven't seen the day, they haven't even seen light in the council. How will people go up to 20 and some billion in hunting costs, how will they handle it? [[Up front.]] Where are these suggestions, and how will they be used? And who's going to pay for it? [[Up front.]] The main problem we now face on approach to this issue has been to take an increased view of small and medium-sized enterprises in the fishing industry. [[The president calls.]] This is what we have done by going beyond anything we have ever done. [[The president calls.]] And we're taking more fishing in this time than was ever done during the last term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u72	A respectable president. It is true that seas flourish all over the land, and investments are never before performed. The call around the country, with 80% of the fishing road outside the capital area, going very well. This is because the government at present says that it is natural for humans to pay a natural price for access to the nation's resources. During this ideal period, resource expenditures, fishing costs, the expense of companies are being applied to a resource of which the nation has, higher than they have ever been. When this election season is over, they will be top in one terms period, higher than they have ever been. And when men came up here for four years and tried to build a resource charge that was supposed to take up up to 27◯28 billion in 2016 or 2017 of that resource and destroy it, when they come out and say we're having something to do with the nation when they're all together building up around the country, they should think what they were doing and compare it with what they've been doing today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u73	Mr. President. One can tell a half story this way: It is true that the health system has never been put in more detail, but the dollar just doesn't buy what she bought. Thus, the health system is not as valuable or as vigorous as it has been. That's the truth. According to all health officials in Iceland, the last budget was $3 billion, and the budget was still at a low level of 3.4 billion. That is not priorities in first - grade health care. Today, nurses and other health care professionals who were involved in a medical event are being referred to. This could have been avoided by setting medical priorities. That was the loss of several billion people and, at least, much less than has been canceled during this time in the fishing field, perhaps more has been taken away in a dollar, another half truth. The real truth is that he's never done better than he is now, so, of course, even if you take a smaller percentage, you can be getting more on the dollar. [[The president calls.]] No, first-class health care is not setting priorities, it's not being done. [[The president calls.]] The priority order is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u74	Mr. President. Here's a smaller part of the pro board, the one standing here and what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, to suggest that hunting costs be taken and used for 500 million, and that it is primarily useful to smaller and medium-sized outputs, not flat, but meet these smaller projections, which certainly are not as practical as the major structure. We believe this approach is very approach to the smaller and medium-sized structures and will do so better than a suggestion of the majority of the segment. While the majority contributes to this factor, we contribute 300 million to their export, all over the world. I think, based on the discussion, they've talked so they're willing to meet the smaller and medium-sized project so that there won't be a lot of compression in this article, very important to agree with this change proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u75	A respectable president. I'm afraid I'm going to say, "Hear the endemity." Two minutes ago, representatives of two opposing parties came up and demanded that hunting be higher. Then a representative of the second category comes up and asks that the fishing costs be decreased more, that is, an overlay in the management part, and the suggestion is to go further in lowering the fishing costs on so-called smaller and medium-sized productions. How's the export? It ends with a certain group, not the least of the players, not the beach fishing, but a certain group getting quite more discount than the next group just above. To be honest, I'm not going to say anything, but this is like the metropolis metropolizeable talk that has been here on hunting expenses. It did not take two minutes for men to request higher fishing costs until they dropped more. And the export is that it does not guarantee the benefit of the smallest ones better than that of certain parties. [[The president calls.]] And here we've been talking about special interests and fair friends and I don't know what or what. How far to go? [[The president calls.]] I suggest that the administrative body agree with the proposal that he has and has made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u76	V.E.G. President. This is a major cut-off for smaller and medium-sized productions, using 300 million for that purpose. The loss of the last loss for the majority has been determined that the reduction in fishing costs was to be achieved by smaller and medium-sized outputs, which have been hidden behind it. Since then, the cost has been reduced, which has helped with the big companies in the country with a bullfish quite as well as other companies. They're lowering the hunting costs at the Samherja and the Reconnaissance Station and Granda. Our expansion of the left green and convergence is just what we want to do to capture these smaller and medium-sized enterprises that have been decorated with the discussion, and we want them to be met. This is a major part of showing some color, some step in that direction, but the 300 million verses of 500 million for us are far less useful for medium-sized production. [[The president calls.]] There's a flat ahead up to Granda and co.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u77	Mr. President. With the highest. I think that I must be allowed to say that I am seriously embarrassed by the ambiguous, unfair, and inexplicableness of the occasion. A seafaring minister was here in his attack on the changes in the memory of the part. I'm wondering if it's the highest. For breakfast, a seafaring minister had a persistent mackerel that's had something to do with it. The majority have used the difficulties of smaller and medium-sized productions to carry fishing costs as a reason to increase the whole article in terms of the situation in which European seas have enjoyed unique benefits for eight years and the future, the budget of this article is expected to be at the ninth of tens of billions of dollars per year, of which about half of the resource uses. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] There is, therefore, no way to say that if the load was distributed in a fair way, it would overpower the legal capacity of the article that it would contribute more in behalf of the nation. [[The president calls.]] It's obvious to anyone who looks at numbers. And it's like everybody else's bullshit. þm. Jón Gunnarson said it was overrun. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u78	Mr. President. I may be on the wrong side, and it's obvious to me, but I'm still going to stick to my speech. There is a change in the price of hunting fees and a delay that the first due date will be February 1, 2016. In view of my solidarity, I think I'll vote with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u79	A respectable president. This suggests that it will be one of the crazyst articles found in the Icelandic code in my opinion and in many others. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that this is not an issue of hatred. The law of general penalties involving hatred propaganda is 233rd c. a. It's not a big deal here. This is 125 st. a general penal law, as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ Any who publicly admire or reproach religious doctrines or worship a legal society in this country will be guilty or imprisoned for up to 3 months. A case should not be appealed, except for the prosecuting of the prosecutor. I think it's important to keep it in place that people's rights are not being banned. This law has only been used and can only be used to prevent light eruptions, which yes, is forbidden by current legislation. It's ridiculous, but I just wanted to keep this up so that there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u80	A respectable president. I am especially happy about this matter, and I look forward to sitting with the companions of the Úlfar of Þormóðsson, who was in his day sentenced to the forbidden blade that made fun of the fact that bar mosaics and barbarking may have been unnecessaryly expensive. There was enough blasphemy for that magazine to be excommunicated, I guess I can't have it, and I guess it's not to be shown on TV or what it is until this fine bill becomes a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u81	A respectable president. I think this case is a very insignificant and hardly a reason to speak it. This is part of the nation's ritualization. Most of the word is allowed, for example, to be found in the networks of the so - called Internet services. For example, it would be acceptable to send a telegram to the members of Congress that the next time the person is going to meet the senator on the street, he will spit on him. These are the telegrams I've been given, and I think it's the same thing. It seems to me that there's no better way to be opposed, so I'm not going to ask more questions, I have no more strength to sit by. And I'm just saying, enjoy yourself. [[Foreground: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u82	V.E.G. President. The case comes from a top-of-the-art Board of Education, with reviews on the subject of most positive matters. It is the church itself, the Bishop's office, and the district attorney who wishes the matter to be agreed here at the council. Freedom of speech is important, we are to respect it, and it is beautiful to live in a society where Congress officials are allowed to receive mail like a dog. A senator traced the above, without our penalties. In such a community, I want to live, and hopefully we will take further steps toward increasing awareness that we are to respect human rights, whether this results in unpleasant consequences for us some of the people here or not. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u83	A respectable president. The issue is presented by the circumstances. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir is about promoting long - term health care. Since the matter has been well agreed and the entire welfare committee is on the committee's mind, we pray for good weather and support for this very good and positive progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u84	A respectable president. I'm going to sit by on this vote. How strange it is that there is always a cry for more and more money in the health - care system we have in the country today. As everyone knows, it is difficult to meet the demands asked. In good days, as today's government offers more funding, saying that the government groups are not good enough for the health of the health system, although this government has been responsible for the never - to - be - so - greater financial investment of the health sector. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. It's completely untimely to present this case, it's very good to be irresponsible in the matter of Congress. All the funding behind these ideas is missing. As I said before, a respectable president, I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u85	V.E.G. President. As representative of the General Assembly of the Icelanders... of the Northern Council welfare committee, I welcome this matter. We've worked very hard on this case at the National Council, and it's just showing that the Icelanders are interested in this category too. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u86	A respectable president. How happy we are that this change is due to a final payment at the council and to show support for it! This is the case that we in the United States have made a great contribution to a proposal we made in the fall, to support SMEs. It is clear that the source will be used by knowledge companies. Much has been called upon on on their part that sources will be made available in this respect, and at a technical and mental body council has been repeatedly declared support for such ideas. How happy, then, that this is about to become a reality! I'd like to thank the head of the Economic and Business Committee, too. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, a 1st traveller who has been able to cope with the treatment of this committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u87	A respectable president. I want to thank the council and the Commission for our good work on this matter. As shown in the vote for what? paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason is here on the authority for pension funds to put 5% of his assets into investing in those enterprises which meet stricter requirements than partner law, meeting the requirements for enterprises in the market market of financing. It is a very big step that the Icelandic pension funds that cover all our savings, the entire nation, can now invest in non-profit enterprises, they can now invest in the growing industry, which are so important for the future, economic growth and standard of living in this country. So I greatly thank the council for their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u88	A respectable president. We here vote for a bill that is proposed for a change in penalties to deal with the disaster in our society called domestic violence. I thank the representatives of all classes for their solidarity in this case, and I wholeheartedly work to that end all the time. It's a pleasure to know that the whole of the General and Education Committee is on the case. In the handling of the case, it was found that the State Department has also taken the matter very seriously and has entrusted the judicial committee with making arrangements for domestic violence. That's why we're disposing 1 st. The bill, but keep 2 o'clock. g., covering a restraining order allowing non-scrap tolerance itself to report a violation of the restraining order. This is very important in the struggle we are in today, and it is a happy day at the council today when we are on this issue together. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u89	V.E.G. President. A General Board of Education and Education has discussed the meeting of domestic violence throughout this term and has called on the Ministry to see if there is no reason to include specific laws for domestic violence into the general penalties. What a joy it is that this work is now ending in a judicial committee! I assume that the bill will appear in the fall and hope that the reaction to it in the Senate will be similar to that of this part of the case that we now agree with. Family violence is one who cares about all of us. Despite the fact that it was accepted here so that what happens at home doesn't concern others, it just isn't like that. Hence, we feel that it is important to get a new bill forward and look forward to coping in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u90	A respectable president. I'm glad this matter is now going through the council. Hv. paritaprevir Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir, deputy council member of the United States, submitted this matter to a council last year, i.e. 2013◯2014, and now it is becoming reality under the lead. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. This is an important and important matter to reduce the use of plastic bags in our country, but plastic bags in our environment have a tremendous impact on natural and animal life. How important it is that we walk in harm's way in reducing the use of plastic bags! This proposal deals well with the ideas and jobs that have taken place within the EEA, and this proposal, along with the work, can become a powerful tool that we are currently putting on the foundation for today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u91	Mr. President. I'm very glad we're going to agree now to hide the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister should find ways to reduce plastic bags use in this country and should submit a protocol prior to November 1. As mentioned before we voted, for what? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, the proposal has made a fine pregnancy for the council. Taking into account a discussion about her during the last assembly, she was submitted here again. Transporters are down. Councilmen from all categories. Iceland has a lot to do with a positive environmental image, and that's why I'm glad we're taking this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u92	Mr. President. We here vote to engage in a practicality check on a train tunnel in the capital area and between Reykjavík and Keflavík. I'm aware that there are differing opinions on this matter, but I've also noticed that they have the support of representatives from all categories and are in good shape with a new local organization that all rural areas in the capital area have joined together, that this option will be explored in a practical way. I think it is very important that the State and the State come to that work and play an active part in it, since this may also be an important introduction, if considered practical, to minimise the undesirable environmental impacts of transport, which must be our objective, especially after most of the time. The Environment Minister introduced ambitious climate goals yesterday. So, of course, I hope that as many members of the council will vote for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u93	A respectable president. This suggestion is an important step toward urban development that is more important to us. And since we have at one table pointed to a city in the capital area, it is important to us that this city evolve. There is no different opposition to other areas of the country, on the contrary, to urban areas, and to rural areas. Depending on the suggestion, a review of the practicality of any particular changes should be made. I think we'd better take a look at things before we make those decisions, before we'd have a final look at them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u94	A respectable president. I have had a positive view of all kinds of transportation improvements, and it's good that there's an agreement between my rural society in the capital area. On the other hand, I fear for the example here being set. Farmers around the country have taken a wide range of surveys on issues involved with the rural communities themselves, they have paid expenses without the State coming in. I think it's unnatural, and I'm afraid of the example they set for me. Other than that, I believe that the matter is totally unpublished. You're taking your first step. It's really an idea. There is no way to develop this, where the lines should come, whether to build a tunnel from Hafnarfnarfjörður into the center of Reykjavík, but all these ideas cost a lot of money. We are not talking about the billions, even tens of billions. I fear that if we leave now with the situation as neglected as we can see, it will be more likely to work against its goals as well as the other. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I won't vote with the proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u95	A respectable president. I'm sorry that this council proposal is being discussed, because this is taking another step toward the city's North Pole airport. There's a lot of seismic activity on Smokeynes right now. I've been a spokesman for the Sunway, which would be a good way to lighten the city tour, and it would also create more exits from the Great Reygúsvívík. All ideas about trains and trains to Cheflavík and others are to be translated only one honorary president: first, set an airport in Hassahuun, and then to set up Reykjavík's airport in front of the cat's nose, and then to work on this plan. [[The president calls.]] So, I'm totally opposed and will vote against this council agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u96	Mr. President. If this proposal is adopted, to check the practicality of train transport between the Chefavirenz airport and Reykjavík, and the easy - reading system in the capital area, I hope that those who do this work will also take into account the changes that are taking place. The tea truck is already 90% self-controlled, Ford's bringing us this car 2018, etc. Once this technology has gone into effect, the cars form and form like a train and drive evenly, so it will not be the same as when you stop and start at once. This has to be taken into the picture. It's all right to look at this option, but we have to take this technological development into account, and it doesn't always seem to be done here. [[The president calls.]] No, it wasn't about commercial passenger transport. They just said, " No, we didn't take into account the environment - because they didn't start out properly when we went to work six years ago. ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u97	A respectable president. The government has previously reached public transportation in the capital area in cooperation with a local community in the capital area and the State, and public transportation has been financed rather than taking strong roads in this area. The regional structure of the capital area was recently approved. There, local societies in the capital area offer these factors. This is a study of the subject. It will likely reveal what, whether or how this will be. In view of this, I will vote with this proposal, but I also want to let it be mentioned because of the words that have fallen here, a respectable president, that I am very much at the airfield in Watermam.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u98	A respectable president. I can't speak for all the piazza, but the person standing here is certainly in favor of the Watermur airport at this time. I view this proposal as one of the important steps in order to fully investigate the long - term methods of transportation. I believe that economic consideration on these grounds, i.e. from Keflavík to Reykjavík, and then within Reykjavík, it will be well available in the future for practical attention in train transportation in the country later on, so I support this good issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u99	A respectable president. This is indicated in this suggestion, specifically considering the number of studies and assessments that have been performed on this matter. Please refer to the conclusions made by all in one way. After all, this council proposal is proposed. I would also like to point out that after this council resolution proposal was submitted, news has been received that both local and private societies in the capital area are starting a survey of the same type as this is about to vote. I wondered, " Is this part of the country not being put in front of the communities and the privates? ' It may even be asked, " Is this some kind of disguised state strength to the company starting a specific journey in this matter? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u100	A respectable president. I support this reasonable proposal for transport analysis. It is very special to hear the presentation of some senators as they go so far as to dig into holes because of the location of the watermy airport that they want to ban transport benefits between the capital area and the Cheflavor airport. [[Up front.]] It's kind of amazing to hear how much people want to stay in the holes in this case. During my last trip abroad, it was now that if everything is included, the waiting on the bus and the trip down to the BSI, it took an hour and 45 minutes. This period of travel can be greatly improved. There is good reason to examine all the possibilities for improving this transport. It is very important in the circumstances that we now see in the rural areas of the capital to take their hand out and cooperate with them in transport reforming. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u101	A respectable president. Sadly, this discussion shows that the political presence of some politicians falls by maintaining some conflicts to form the battles about the airport in Watermur. If there is some kind of reasonable conclusion about that matter, people will be afraid and think that all other matters are about the airport in Watermam, including the airfield. Things that aren't at all about the Watermelon airport. [[Up front.]] It's going to miss you. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son and why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. They believe that this matter is disguised and is actually about the airport in the Hydromosis. [[Up front.]] It's not. This is a matter supported by all rural areas in the capital area, which is specifically supported by the regional organization, and it emphasizes that the effort to gain support for it is to be made. I thought now, without me going to sing here from a punk, a nice line from a text that can be read like this, with President's permission: [[Foreground on: Yes,...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u102	A respectable president. We will discuss whether or not to investigate the practical routes of train in Reykjavík and in the capital area and as far as Chefavík. If I recall, the cost of this sort of project has been heard in the range of 30 to90 billion. No doubt it has become less expensive today, and I welcome a full survey of it. It would have to be said, if this is done, as a guide to the Minister, that for the same amount of money there can be bought to the country by the same amount of electricity and thus to reduce fuel disposal in Iceland. I would like to agree with the views that were overlooked. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson says that there is also a serious view of the possibilities that are opening up with the electric accelerator, which is very good for us and may be much more practical. It is an assignment that we can perform at a lower government cost. These vehicles are becoming self - absorbed and are driving themselves elsewhere, which makes them public transportation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is a complete change in the possibilities ahead. I want a check, too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u103	Mr. President. I think it's time and urgent to have a thorough inspection, a thorough investigation of the ability to connect capital area to Southnes and perhaps some time into the long future of the A yearborg and West by a practical and environmentally friendly train system. With a growing nation that may count 450 thousand people after several decades and 2/3 to 3/4 of them living in this area, it may well be a sensitive and exciting advantage. Regarding the dangerous example that the State will bring its rural society to an opinion of such a vast transport, I've never heard such nonsense. I know why. paritaprevir Isn't Þórhallsson at the State's expense, and does the largest transportation system also run in the capital area, the footways? It is a great deal of interest to the state, which in addition supports public transportation, if there was a good solution to the need for animal projects for private cars, pollution, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, a respectable president, I support this suggestion, even though I would like to have Reykjavíkur Airport alone for a while. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u104	A respectable president. It's my wish that we senators would be able to talk here before the cars start to do that. I think the key to this case has become a even more speculative observation, has it not? Are we not checking the cost of transport? And does the director of the Allied Transport Committee object? Is it? It's completely ridiculous. He agrees that the state is involved in transporting materials to airports in Akureyri, that's for sure, just a huge process of transportation. But now what? What does what? A senator that will cost you? Is it not a matter of trying to figure out whether money can be saved? Are they so afraid that the result could lead to a reality or that it would be practical to establish such a system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u105	A respectable president. In all this discussion, I have pointed out that it is the representatives of the whole nation who make decisions on the basis of the needs and many means of transportation. In fact, I've wanted to go a little further, and I've joined up in Reykjavík. I have to say, though, that in all this discussion, I was not discussing the area of Reykjavík. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir said things like that. Svandís Svavarsdóttir claims now. She apologized, and I insist on it. A senator will, too, do so because she has not listened to the discussions that were discussed earlier, and I am so sorry. Of course, that's the way the road comes to matters that are fundamental to something else. What I've just pointed out and stood by is that if you're going to pay for all kinds of practical observations, and now they're quite a few of them that your communities have gone into and cost a lot, we're opening up here an example that can be very difficult to turn around. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u106	V.E.G. President. To a degree, accepting this proposal would be a big mistake. First, we naturally decide to activate, and then we talk about what we're going to do with our energy. First, we decide to build a train or not to do that, or to operate on transportation, trains in the capital area, or not to do so. It's like the rule of work here. This suggests that the benefits are being considered. I have considered some suggestions that have previously been made on trains at the Cheflavík Airport. I haven't been convinced of that. Then the technology and circumstances change, and we will examine the aspects and solutions that we make use of in harmony with these changes. This suggestion has nothing to do with anything but to consider them. In fact, to me this is about much more when it comes to transportation in the capital area, i.e. whether we're going to be Houston North with 20 lanes for cars or move into the 21st century through modern environmental transportation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why it's going through this thing, taking a look at the pros.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u107	A respectable president. I look forward to seeing this report when she finally comes out, because some senators might think it was one of the most dangerous documents ever written in Icelandic. I also look forward to reading it because I am quite convinced that it will show that sustainable future transport is something that is truly practical and very practical. So I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u108	V.E.G. President. I am quite pleased with this suggestion because it is in itself in line with the long - term trends of the parishion Party in studying the practicality of train transportation. I'd like to remind you that 25 years ago, the former city council officer made a suggestion in this spirit, Þorsteinsson, and it's not the first time he saw far above anyone else. So I'm very happy with this suggestion and I'm going to vote for her, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u109	A respectable president. I would like to give this comment on forethought, and that the country is being proposed to be investigated before further implementation is carried out, I read it in magazines, in a news report during the first day, that the capital planning director confirmed a new development of a new organization established by the responsible authorities in which a trolley, a light train, as it is called, or a speed-car system. As far as I can see, the rural areas in the capital area, including Reykjavík, have already decided to place this tea, it has already been done without the inspection of this case. I must say that I feel that the obsession of left men in the capital area for sports cars has reached a certain new level with this matter and that it was made a special agreement on the end of the council, this case, the opinion of traces. [[Up front.]] In that light, I don't vote with the case, but I prefer them not to vote against it, as if I had all the equal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u110	A respectable president. It is similar in these votes that ridicule is heard in a plagion hall from the U.S. government body if someone comes up here in a vote and disagrees with them. A respectable president. I don't support this case and vote against it, because this is exactly a suggestion that the state-motivated concept of the left people's ideas in these easy-to-be matters, that's perfectly clear, more dignified President. This is similar to what happened when left greens went to mayor's elections saying that all children should have free nursery space from birth, but their representative appeared in the news just a few days ago and said that it was impossible to do so unless the government arrived. It's a totally comparable case. The government is to be paid, taxpayers, the public is to pay for all of the ideas left greens and controversies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u111	A respectable president. I'm very much in favor of research and transportation research to see how to make them environmentally more stable, safer, and more efficient. There are many ways to do this, and that makes me feel more specific than just having one method of transportation in such a study of what is most practical, safe, and effective. Worse still, private workers have taken in the search for the practicality of trains between Southnesia and the capital. Will the State simply take over their jobs and pay for the cost? I don't understand such priorities. The rural areas in the capital area should do more work before we start working and costing. That's why I'm on the side of this case, but in general, I'm following all the tests and surveys in this case. I would also like to point out that by setting a 10 - to 16 - year - long - old street interface in the capital area, the early surveys can reduce the emissions of cars. [[The president calls.]] It costs about 20 billion or about half as little as a light train.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u112	A respectable president. One of the most important aspects of this matter is that the signing of candidates will be banned, and this is in line with the comments received by the committee. We, in our memory, feel that there should not be a single disease, as 1 Corinthians 15: 58. ... because it is very important that human rights be guaranteed as well as equal rights and support for all, whether those with developmental impairment, sensibility, or mental illness. We believe it's a violation of human rights to deprive any legal rights on the grounds of delinquency. It is vital that the police be asymptomatic when entering a home in order to make an appointment. We also believe that the progress in the development of a social team is very important. However, it does not change that in this matter it is very important that an overall review of these laws and what is being done here should be revised within two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u113	A respectable president. I'm not going to write down what was previously said, but I'd like to make a special statement that if it wasn't for a complete review of this case, I couldn't vote with this case because I don't feel that there's much going too far. Although I believe this is definitely a step in the right direction, it's a justice, and so I will support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u114	Mr. President. This is a big, serious problem, both between the peasant class and with experts in infectious diseases. On the left of the green, the issue is to be authorized for the import of genetics. Although a change in how the original proposal looked and now referred to an embryo, the import of frozen sperm is also authorized and we believe that this could pose a serious risk to livestock diseases, which could lead to unforeseen consequences. The interests of all farmers are below, not merely the interests of the cattle producers, but the genetic possession of the land in this way. We feel that this discussion will grow much better among the local community and that it will be decided thereafter. [[The president calls.]] We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u115	A respectable president. A minority of the welfare committee made two comments to the bill. On the one hand, regarding the self-imposed position of the Iceland Insurance Institute, this change was drawn back by a greater proportion of welfare committees and is well established. However, regarding the fact that the only change in rights in the bill is to reduce the rights of prisoners. That is the change that a minority of the Committee cannot accept, so we will not support the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u116	A respectable president. In this bill, we are already enforcing the principles that financial companies will need to implement in the coming years because of new regulations for the financial market due to the European Economic Area. I strongly emphasize that in the approval of this one on our part there is no conflict that the budget discussed by the secretary of finance of the European Union and the other EFTA state of financial market surveillance is worthy of our consent or that we believe it is in line with Iceland's Constitution. That arrangement will bring about an independent decision for the Council, probably next winter, but we will agree with these rules. Then, it is a special pleasure that we get together on the committee to break down the ideas of the highest level. The secretary of the budget to further clear financial companies into favoring proposals and replace them with a change in proposals that support existing restrictions imposed by the FEC for successful financial pay paids in the financial system. This is a very important success, and I hope that the government's share won't be coming back here in the fall with a new attempt to increase the success of due payment and benefits in banks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u117	A respectable president. I'm happy that we have been here on a more serious discussion, unfortunately, which took way too much time in the winter halls to convince the administrative body that it is out of accordance with good government practices and would not be in line with the lesson in the infamous fishing business to give the minister the unnecessary permission to determine the location of public institutions. [[The point is, why not?]] Here we call out: Why not? Well, because the emissary of the Generals has felt that such is not in harmony with Icelandic law. He has emphasized the need for preparation for such a decision, material preparation. Hence, it is happy that we have received the administrative part in order to accept the change that this will be the case at the General Assembly before such a decision is made. The bill continues to contain some things that are critical. We have special comments about the laying down of the ethics committees in the administrations and therefore will not support the whole issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u118	V.E.G. President. A smaller part of the Council of Government and Observation Committee on this matter, as well as mine. The members of Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Helgi Hjörvar, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, have said that we believe that the changes in the government's proposal for Article 1 have been made. The bill is a great thing to do. It assumes that a minister cannot bring an institution into his own interest, for he must previously have submitted a report to the council that gives evidence of plans for moving. However, we have criticized other laws of this bill, e.g. legalize certain Ministerial Committees without adequate discussion over the administrative significance of such adjustments. We have criticized that a minister should be authorized to set up special operations and government agencies without the approval of the General, without the approval of the legislator and the financial authority. We've accepted criticism from our unions about saving employees. Most importantly, the highest. Mr. President, we strongly object to the regulations of the bill that the co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administration will be submitted and that the prime minister will be replaced with authority in the interpretation of the existing rules of ethics, as stated in the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why the adjustment is made to Article 1. Good, but the bill's bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u119	V.E.G. President. This bill has been controversial, especially 1st par. It is. I believe it is very important that the minister has the normal management privileges, including those given. in determining the residence of the sub-clonals. However, it is also important that we make decisions that will help many people and that the preparation is complete. That's why I'm supporting a very modified proposal on Article 1. to ensure that there will be more careful action, that a report will be given to the council before a decision is made. That's why I'm on the side of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u120	Mr. President. It's just that this case is really bad. This increases the power of ministers at the same time and reduces the maintenance and monitoring of their ability to exercise the authority entrusted to them. It's just a really bad management thing. What to do there is let the counsellors decide on their own, and then there's something added; okay, we need to report to the council, okay? Of course it's a reform, but a reform from an overly evil matter doesn't make it good. It remains that the independent members who are to assess the failure of ministers with the authority they have in the nation's commission no longer exist, regardless of the no longer exist. The review board, which was to be in all sorts of roles such as dealing with information, research, and research, making sure that there is a consistent conflict in the indications, cooperating with partners and organizations abroad against corruption in the public sector, providing annual reports and proposals to the government on how to reduce the risk of corruption and problem better work - this is gone. It's not a good thing. It's a bad case, chief. President and Chief. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u121	A respectable president. I'm happy that this case is here and will be replaced, for it must be supported by a minister's authority in making a decision to move organizations. I feel that the debate on this council has been directed in Reykjavík, U.S.R., and certain members of Congress have been on guard that no organization is to be moved from here by the Great Reygúsvegur to the country. The discussion only changed when I took an example of the situation as well as the establishments in a country that should be moved to the capital area, and then I felt that the atmosphere toward this bill was slightly improved. I totally support the political adjustment proposed here, but there is really no need to be taking this report before the council, for the distrust of politics cannot take the professional opinion that any minister has of moving an institution, whether out of the country, in the capital area or vice versa. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u122	A respectable president. I think that when ministers decide to move institutions to and fro, they usually are, as has been shown in this bill's case, not very professional, although they should not destroy words in reply. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. I say that the adjustment in the greater part greatly improved Article 1, and that's why I'm not used to supporting it. But I say like what? Jónasson I'm going to vote against the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u123	A respectable president. I think it's right to explain my vote on this matter. I believe the 1969 Constitution, which went into effect on January 1, 1970, was almost complete, but since then there have been some losses. I think a lot of things in this bill are adding to the flexibility in the control ship, but it was created by the bill in a way that the beginning was to be carried by the Marine Institute from Hafnarfjörður, and as it turned out, it was almost like an attack on the self - esteem of a fish lab. I don't like it, and I hope that the way people treat the staff is going to get involved with something, so I'm doing it, and I hope that the Fish Room will be spared in this matter. I support this case with that argument, and I hope that most of it will be fine. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-141.u124	Mr. President. Actually, there are two distinct cases here. It is, on the one hand, to increase the authority of a minister to transport organizations. A person may have some opinions about this, but if one member is brought along, even if a report is given to the General, he will be able to discuss it, there is one person in charge. And there's a lot of good work to do. What happens when one person is frequently hired? Then, because the minister employs and does what he wants, the work is not particularly careful. That's something we've seen very clearly. That is why it takes a much better frame to make a decision, to move more people, that there are others who may come to the decision - making process, and to stop the bad decision. So it's not to be distributed here, but the Minister's only to be hired. Second, we are talking about oversight and maintenance by being effective ministers in administering the authority entrusted to them. They're throwing them off the table. V.E.G. The prime minister who makes this suggestion has to explain why this is his course in the matter. [[The president calls.]] He hasn't.
