ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u1	Mr. President. The law on Congress states 2 mg. 30. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A committee with an approved legal bill or a concierge proposal shall let her print in her opinion a plan for the costs of new laws or assumptions that will lead to a government fund. I am told by the Generals' espionage of information that this law of the law that was instituted in 2011 has not been implemented. It's been four years. I've mentioned this before on the platform, and it seems there isn't any money in it. There is no money in evaluating the financial impact of laws that are approved at the General Assembly, although the committee recommends the cost of it. What I would like to know and ask the president to tell us and the whole nation is when he intends to ensure that these terms in the law, when we accept the law, will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u2	When it comes to government bills, they always follow the financial expenses of the Ministry. A general body has not been able to perform its own independent assessment of the economic impact of the bills after treatment in committees. Like what? However, a senator is aware of this as well as for the changes made by committees to find information on the costs of the changes. More than that, the council has had no place in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u3	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers and marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u4	A respectable president. Yesterday, the Secret Bank Department's money policy board decided to keep operating growth unchanged, although there was a physical rationalization in view of the uncertainty of the outcome of collective agreements that are standing before us. Looking at the scene, you can see from the declarations of the executives of the labour market last week that much of the responsibility for this situation is in the government. Thus, the president of the German Union this morning says that while patients have to pay higher fees and take more part in costs, it is seen that money and resource taxes are not used to meet the worst in society. This is a ruined opportunity to balance the gap and to make more peace in the community. In the past week, the executive director of the Union's Association of Industrial Science is even more deeply involved in a fistula on the website of the organization. He says that the explanation for the situation at work that he calls a serious position in a labour market is to look for pay development on the part of the public public and the government's communications with the labour market. A great imbalance has developed in the labour market, the government has completely disappeared from traditional three - sided cooperation with the labour market partners, has not been involved in business activities or legal projects, has reduced rights to unemployment and so on. He asks what the government is in effect doing to prevent us from facing the end of a rare and long - awaited system of things. I want in the highest. Secretary of finance after the answer to this question: What will the government do when we see that the Council penitentiary does not rely on them to lower the management interest due to the position that has come up? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u5	Mr. President. The decision made yesterday by the bank has been explained by some uncertainty factors. It is only natural that it seems to each of these things, but as far as the labour market is concerned, it does not surprise anyone to be surprised by the declarations that have been recently made that many feel that there is a pretty great deal about whether these contracts are involved in maintaining the level of money gains, and we could call out the buy - power contracts, or whether they're still going to take one in on credit rates and inflation. This is in many ways a strange situation because those who speak the most of what is now are expected to fight - for what? What is the fight for? If I know correctly, the labour market is mainly fighting for the greater purchase power of the wage workers in the country. That's the main fight. How's it going in Iceland today? It works better than in any other place. That's the short answer. During 2014, buying power increased by about 5%. What are the prospects in the future? According to last estimate, inflation this year is expected to be less than 1%. In other words, there are ideal conditions for making responsible agreements that will maintain the success, defend the growth in commercial resources that occurred last year, and that we will continue to build up the standard of living with responsible agreements. You see, there is at present nothing else in the outside that threatens this stability. So in this respect, the matter is entirely in the hands of the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u6	A respectable president. The workforce's attitude is the opposite. They're pointing to the government. V.E.G. Secretary of finance cannot overlook the fact that what has been most fueled by this fire is the actions of the government, as I traced before, the proclamations of the Supreme Court. The prime minister who has said that the contracts that have been made have not increased the lowest wage sufficiently, and the same has the highest. Department of Social Affairs said. V.E.G. In turn, the secretary of finance has made collective agreements and cannot deny their responsibility for those agreements or for those declarations. The fact is, too, that the Navy trusts, not to reduce operating growth and, rather, commercial life and Icelandic homes in the sludge of high - control growth, 4.5%, when inflation is less than 1% due to the failure of the government's policy. I must ask the highest. Financial Minister: Do the labour market members just not understand the government? How does he respond to the comments I made before, the material comments on the increase in tax measures in the government, and the lack of contact with the labour market members established by the labour market authorities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u7	Mr. President. What has the government contributed to creating the conditions that have recently developed with low inflation, more reliable credit ratings, better interest rates for government funds, and lower interest rates? The Sullaby Bank's muscles have dropped. Yeah, we've done a bargain like the general market. They've been in line with the main sign that was formed here in the fall of 2013; over 90% of last year's agreements are within that framework. The development of public workers over the last ten years shows that the public market, especially government employees, is behind the general market. This has been in the case of some form of pay bag. We've dropped taxes, we've attacked the homes' debt status, and the homes are getting better. We're running a government fund without a tilt, with leftovers, so to speak. All of these are key aspects of creating the economic stability here. So I firmly refuse that there is a situation here that should make it particularly difficult for workers in the labour market to negotiate a realistic bargain. That's not true. It is not as if humans are defending themselves from some future inflation. She doesn't have any ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the highest. Health Minister on the reports that have been received by the TiSA talks, but reports were made in the core that evidence had leaked over that discussion. TSA talks are a discussion of international service trade, a conversation that has been largely secreted by various causes, a conversation that has been held outside the International Business Agency for some reason, a conversation involving a large number of international companies. We have at least once, and perhaps more, in the winter, we discussed these talks in this hall. The data that dropped showed that there was a suggestion to make a part of this agreement by health care provider. Now I know that the health-care minister does not take Iceland's contracts in this discussion, but it's quite remarkable, which reveals the suggestion that the data tell us about Turkey that it is about making a market of patients so that they can travel between countries for health care. The experts who have examined this suggestion have noted that it will likely increase the cost of health care paid in developing countries and reduce its quality in developed countries of Europe, North America, Australia, and elsewhere. It was reported today from the State Department's emissary that Iceland would not be interested in participating in medical market discussions in this way. But I would like to ask, because the news reports that this proposal was on the table since September, if by any chance. A health minister has been aware of this, what his position is that health care is under discussion, such as in the field of service. If this suggestion became available, it would be clear that it basically remembered the changes in the structure of the health system. [[The president calls.]] We've been discussing here a different form of chaos, and I think it's very important to get a minister's stand on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u9	A respectable president. It comes to me in the same way as it did. Captain, I hadn't heard anything about this until yesterday's news. There is no staff of the Ministry of Health involved in any discussion in these matters. It's been enlightened, like a rough one. A senator said that the State Department has expressed himself on this subject. According to the information we've received, the State Department has not participated in these talks and has concluded that the proposal there is no place in the TiSA deal. For this reason the Ministry of State has not participated in discussions about this part of the matter, as I am informed. The only thing to be done in my current Ministry is the implementation of a national health care directive that is to be implemented at the end of January of this year, and has been prior to the arrival of the Icelanders for many years. That's what's done, and I expect a bill to be submitted here at the spring Summit. How it comes to working and how it works by looking, I can't express myself at this point, but I hope it explains within a month when the bill is ready and can be submitted to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. But I find it quite news indeed. Ministers have read about it in the news, as if I were to propose a health service during Tiz's negotiations of free service transactions, and that the State Department has declared Iceland's position on the matter - I agree with that, I say so. But I think it's a lot of news. A health minister has not even been informed that Iceland is not going to be involved, there is some news here, a respectable president. But that points to something else, and it's just weird how strange it is that Iceland has a business to do for service, which is so secretly on top of the world's highest level. Ministers of the government do not know that they are being discussed within the discussion. The public has very little information on what is going on and the answers received from the State Department are mainly the fact that there will be a complete cover-up until the contract is signed. [[The president calls.]] To be honest, I find this really interesting. [[The president calls.]] At last, though, I want to ask the highest. Whether he agrees with the position that the State Department's secretary has presented on behalf of the nation and its members. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u11	A respectable president. There's a lot to be kept in the State Department and foreign affairs, that's quite clear; and, I think, all along, I've always been. I haven't been digging much into this case, I'll quite admit it. In my mind, this is not a priority on health care in this country, a long distance away. I believe that we are, in fact, doing well with our attention to health care across borders by enforcing the laws of the European Economic Area or European Union. I have no basis for expressing myself and taking sides, from this chair, to a case I don't know a threat to. As a result, I can't describe my stand on some proposal that I haven't even beaten my eyes. [[The president calls.]] But basically, I think we have an excellent way of handling health care across the border and just reiterate my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u12	A respectable president. I have read a report on agricultural customs by a team and would like to ask the highest level. Minister a little. The result, as I read it, is that customs protection here is very high. I feel that much of the report is about the opportunity for immigrants. I feel like the consumer enemy is missing, but the letter of command may have been, so it was not expected. I noticed that on page 18. 17 speaks of a two - sided agreement with Norway. We can move out 200 horses, have a tollvota for 200 horses, but in turn we can bring 13 tons of mace cheese and 15 tons of potato chips in from Norway. You wonder, " Who's making this up? ' Are consumers' interests helping to get the potato chips and carpenters? I would do the same on page 19. 39, which is repeatedly spoken of the need to improve the market. It says that governments have sought additional market access to other countries, but it is clear that, among other things, they can be done even better with regard to the European Union. Then you will think: Well, a great way to end the meeting at the same time we're going to try to get better contracts with the European Union when it comes to customs. It also says that there is a need to improve market access to dairy products, especially skis, demand for shelters, and in the United States there is a great opportunity for commercial agricultural products and especially on special occasions. Where are the opportunities for consumers? I ask. Need another report on the market opportunities for consumers and traders? What would that mean if toll protection was taken away or greatly reduced? I'd like to ask a minister if he thinks he needs another report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. The head of the team for raising a report on customs that was mainly to be done; on the one hand, to review the opportunities of Iceland's national policy, which is to increase free trade agreements to as most countries in the world and to review the customs protection available in Iceland, in view of the experience of farm contracts that have been developed for a long time, and to work on new contracts. You're right. A senator points out, however, that mutual agreements on customs are often focused on very peculiar things in which people and countries seek mutual delinquency or toll decreases, and this work is always going on. In part, the report was designed to explain the situation in Iceland because of the proposed free trade agreements with other countries. It may be noted that this weekend I participated in the Western European Summit's theme conference in Greenland, where it was dealing with a vacation store in the Western Council with the Greenlandians and the Faeroes, as we know through the Hoyvík Convention, about the possible possibility of setting up a vacation shop in the Western region, etc. It's very exciting things, but they always revolve around mutual things. You have to open in both directions. Because of what? A senator referred to the European Union then we've been in discussions with the European Union on two-to-the-to-to-to-do and down customs, but unfortunately, the European Union has deferred them now in two ways that were to be carried out in the autumn, including in the fall of elections for the Commission, but possibly also because of some other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I just want to come into the tollcancana, which I've been discussing before at the council. I don't think it's easy to discuss them in the report, and it's difficult to share these limited quality, whether with an invitation, by throwing lots, or by some mixed way. I thought it might have been more of a story in the report. In fact, I find it contradictory in what is said here by permission of a president: ▪...e.g. is the principle of chronologicality in the European Union or in the first place, first to arrive. So says the following page: ▪ In the opinion of experts OECD, tollocates are considered to be the most efficient way to distribute these limited quality. Then you might reason: " Here is where you can confirm that the route you take is the best. Then, when I read the report and what is quoted, it is not about agricultural products. The report makes it clear that agricultural products are taken away because they are so special. I would like to make some more comments about customs. Surely all of us agree that they must serve their purpose, which is reducing the price to consumers and to increase competition. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u15	A respectable president. It is true that the debate on customs and their arrangements is somewhat peculiar, and in the past the management has requested proposals from stakeholders. They have not been received, but the suggestions are so contradictory and different sources. As a result, humans have traveled different paths. The person here has declared that he is willing to examine it at any time in a more reasonable way than is done today and to see if it can somehow be ensured that there is more equal value than it really is today. The route that has gone and OECD considers the most efficient where capital is important may have consequences, as we saw last year, that customs have gone up as a result of the expense that those who buy them later place on the product when they arrive in the country. From where I'm sitting, it's probably a matter of reexamination. They have also been thrown over to interest stakeholders, but they have not provided clear answers to what seems to be the most reasonable way of doing because of their very different interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the proposed global reexamination of the fishing system. We went to a meeting at the Ministry a while ago where we were introduced to the bill, at least. as it was then. It would be good for the United States to know where this bill is. Is it ready? If it's not ready, when are you likely to run out? If it's ready, where's the coast? Is it on the way into the council? It would be good to have clear answers about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u17	A respectable president. There is no secret that this has been accomplished for quite a while. The beginning can be traced back to 2010 when the former government set up a meeting site, the Synod Committee. The Treaty then speaks of implementing the form of negotiations that are agreed on there. They did not agree on all things, but they agreed on basics. That is the way it is spoken of in the government covenant, and it has been my record ever since. It is the primary objective of trying to achieve extensive peace, and it is of course special to see that I feel that I have managed to keep up the conversation with different stakeholders inside the output, including employers and employee alike, within that class, and that we are working in the right direction to the solution of the three factors that lead to the resource, to the development of enough vision and stability for long periods, and that fishing costs are part of this triennial. There is no secret, however, that political parties differ from interests. This became evident when I introduced the matter to the government and, of course, to the group of fellow workers. One of the reasons why the matter has not yet been brought in is that we are looking for greater reconciliation to solve these three problems, the task that we have been facing on the basis of the reconciliation committee, as a result. It is a challenge for us politicians to see if we are ready to participate in such activities, to ensure a certain level of stability and prowess in order to cut down the problems that have turned to the right to use, as well as to ensure the precognition of the fishing fees in corporate management and to take the public from their resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u18	Mr. President. Again, the question of timing. Can we find out what's seen or what's at the highest level? A minister has any idea when he could tell us something about his timing? It is usually possible to do so. For these three factors, yes, invisibility must clearly be present. One minister noted that the way he is working on it is by means of a contract. Contracts of some kind of validation rights are property protection and therefore very strong protection against them and ensure this firm stability and prowess for which a minister calls. Then I'd like to ask the minister: " Don't you have to be a constant deadline for the contracts? Fear was at the time given to certain fishers who had been hunting for three years and said: "It is because we set the quatans, we limit what was catchable, instead we get these rights to hunt, this monopoly from the state, the state's monopoly, to hunt. Is it to end now with a new bill at the highest level. Minister? [[The president calls.]] Then there will be some contracts for a certain time. Is it not necessary to ensure that these contracts automatically fail?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u19	A respectable president. You're wrong. Foreman that those who had been in Iceland for decades or centuries received something given. When the eating system was put on, all who were in that operation normally continued and were allowed to take on the necessary management that then had to be done. No one was willing to do so, and all the fishing grounds were fired by a loss, as we know. Today, we are happy to be on a whole different page with our most powerful profession. [[Up front.]] But in the matter of the question, agents aren't owners, they're just ballers, they have the right to make use of it. It is very important in the bill to explain the rights of the owner, the nation, and these regulations toward the review of agreements and other essential elements of the bill. This is a complete package of work to do the work that has been done for some time. I hope, and I have hoped for quite a long time, that there might be a chance of taking this for an intelligent and material discussion at the council. [[The president calls.]] However, in order for the situation to become widely reconciled, all parties must be prepared to look at what they have been working on for some time and must have the courage to finish the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u20	V.E.G. President. A recent study was published entitled Qualifications of Pension Savings that are funded by the National Department of Pension and the SEC. This is a serious matter, and it is legalized savings, and the study shows that about one third of the pay will not reach the goal of a 56% pension rate of intermediate professional income. A quarter of people between 35 and 63 years of age are not able to reach that. More than half of the public market funds do not achieve this criteria, and men receive 24% higher pensions than women. Remuneration pays 121⁄215.5% of your income in a pension fund all of your working days, and it can't work that the system doesn't meet the legal requirements. In addition, in contrast with the proposed costs for social security, the cost of such an increase in efficiency will result in an increase in expenses for the future. So I want to ask the highest. Economic and financial secretary three questions. I'd like to ask him what will be the review of the pension system that's been in the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the past few years. I'd like to ask him if the current action is a threat to the special delivery system, which is precisely stated in the report that a significant increase in the pension of people, will not have to be revised in the light of this report. I'd like to ask if he believes that sexual differences in pay are acceptable during his pensions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u21	Mr. President. In terms of a review of the biofuel system being conducted in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this is still working and is primarily going to work out how to balance the damage between the systems, so that public rights management in the public sector will be similar to what happens on the general market. This calls for dealing with some underlying problems, first of all, the unfinished part of the commitments of the State. Second, we need to take on a major system change to cut down the pension rights and move on to age - related practices. State responsibilities must be dealt with on the public funds. The unions with which the state has had a conversation with the government also want such changes to be added to the general terms of public employees compared to the general market in case their pension rights become equal. This work has taken a very long time. Whatever the outcome of that work, we cannot wait much longer to take action because of an abundance of commitments. We've been pushing it ahead of us in the fall of the past few years to deal with the problem, and for the B department, we've got to start a fund collection to save this big payday that, otherwise, will wait for us about ten years. In the case of the special property savings, it is a real pleasure to see how much it has done. I can see that the way we have offered, that by saving and laying aside taxes, we will have to extend it to the future to allow people to have housing. [[The president calls.]] But whether it is at the expense of the special delivery system is premature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister responds, but he wants a clearer answer. I realize this job has lasted a long time, and it's complicated, but I think it's a matter of opinion whether the pension system we live in is actually tailored to the labour market we live in today. There must be a counter-referred review of this, since paymen in this country are committed by the law to pay their pay on this system monthly, a system that lost hundreds of billions of dollars in the collapse and a system that is now sealed up in currency capitals that limit its potential for growth and has a very difficult impact on the economy. I would like to repeat the questions as to whether there is no reason to review the specialisation plans and whether it is acceptable to have a sexual difference in pay during the pension period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u23	Mr. President. I can't believe it. A senator expected me to think that it is acceptable, however, as a result of the sex pay paid per working age. He came back in his pension age. This points to a number of defects in the pension system, and it may be a risk of having this collection, which was referred to as losing a lot of money. [[Up front.]] And that your seas are a problem, that's for sure. However, the recent assessment of the International Cash Fund of Iceland's Pension Fund shows that we have one of the best systems available and that the chances that people will enjoy the highest proportion of pay paid on their jobs are high in Iceland compared with other countries. We need to keep developing this system, stopping into its holes. We need to get rid of the oceans in order to place a greater risk on the pension system and equal rights between the public and the general. One of the biggest problems I see in today's systems is that when there's a crisis, we have to cut rights in the general system, but at the same time we have to use tax dollars to live under the responsibility of the government on the public system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u24	V.E.G. President. We'll continue from where we left off yesterday for a discussion on bill to legalize the local community service laws, i.e. on the conditions of financial support. It has been of interest to observe how the discussion of the matter has taken place here in the Senate Hall, but the discussion has given rise to a different fundamental principle. No one has said that as I have heard about the tremendous importance of people's activities, I have heard that there are no disagreements. However, what disagreements are all about is how we keep people or after experiences put people in action. A wording such as the need for a little encouragement to start is an example of what has been said in the discussion and, in my opinion, how important it is that we do not have a criminal system where people are punished for their lack of activity by taking financial help if they do not meet certain conditions that they are given. I think it'd be much better to bring in a positive impulse and one idea as bad. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stilggi was to set a minimum that would be paid to all, and it could possibly be built on top of some impulse. I'm much more impressed with this because I think that we have to ensure a certain minimum improvement in people, and it's because of my belief that if we are going to reduce the numbers of poor people, and accept financial support, we really need strong social systems that help people for better lives, but we don't punish them to more poverty. So I would have preferred to see a bill for the financial support of a community where a set floor would be defined in the financial assistance of the local community, i.e. fit the minimum output applied as the reference height. In fact, 1st parr. about the balance level, but never mentioned the amount of money to be spent. This may be quite different between rural society, so there is something that I would have liked to see as a starting point in this matter, but not starting out by setting effective terms for the financial support I think will likely lead to an even worse economic and social situation. For example, at the SECE conference there was a visitor from Denmark who shared the experience in Denmark, where they have found that when people are taken out of financial support because of the working conditions, they push people even further to the edge of society, and they actually judge it when it comes to participation in such a more socially vulnerable position to view it as punishment rather than a source of encouragement. As a result, I believe that this is a very difficult journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk, and I especially thank her for giving a witness from Denmark. I'm afraid, considering what I've seen, that in general, it's the experience that it's still a further perimeter of poor people. Freeism in recent decades has led communities to become more tamed in calling the poor to account while the rich get richer. This is an example of this. This ideologies has been disguised with positive signs such as activity, participation, and motivation. And who does not want to be involved, who does not want to view encouragement as a positive one, and who does not want to view it as a good thing that individuals take responsibility for themselves? All of us can agree on this, but we are very clear in the matter. In terms of efficacy requirements, we need to be aware that this is not a matter of a very serious change in the financial support system. This will then stretch into other systems. And that's what I want to ask you. A senator for e.g. the status of micro-organization workers: Is there not a risk that understanding people's circumstances will be less and less, and the demand will be higher for those who are also in a position to be handed over to the system for forward and thus be able to defend their rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u26	Mr. President. Yeah, I think this can be exactly what you're doing. I appreciate it. A senator for the question. I think we need to be careful and think about how this can affect other systems. One of the reasons why I've been thinking about the changes in the social security system, but it's been said about the disability assessment for disability, is whether it could lead to negative conditions, right? Of course, the same thing is that we should contribute to a community where they can participate in a workforce, preferably in the same way with others. But we are also not allowed to disseminate people in their perimeter positions, leaving behind the forces of the labour market. The experiences of the past few weeks have proved this, as proved in the bus business or the case of the motion service of disabled people who had a lack of ability were dismissed, and this offered only full - time reimbursement, which had previously been in half a job. I believe and trust that for a system such as professional assessment to be able to work in real poverty, there's a lot in the labour market to change. The workforce of disabled persons' attitudes toward work must change so that disabled people really get work but not just become conditioned by some system to apply for work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. Now we're both sitting on a welfare committee, and this case will come in, and we'll send it out for reviews like any other case. When we discuss social security, we're going to go around the world, including the rest of the world. ... tothePreservationoftheCommunity and the National Association of the Old Citizens. When we discuss unemployment insurance, there are no job groups with an organization, but the labor movement represents them, since they are labour - related rights. When it comes to helping people with financial support, I wondered, " Who really are their advocates? ' Where can we send out a case that has a bearing on the matter? Who are under pressure to speak for them? To what organization do we seek? It's a group that's in a very weak position. It is a very diverse group, and most of it is short of time, some of course more than once, but it is still the people who are often in the most difficult position to protect their rights and positions. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: If the Council is not going to defend the rights of this group, who would be most likely to represent him and speak for him?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. However, a senator is eager for these good questions that I have a little hard to answer, for this certainly is a very difficult situation. To whom can a review be sent? There are no such things that I know of the interest groups of people who, unfortunately, receive financial support, I would like to say, for it is indeed a group that would need to be in a conflict of interest. But the nature of the matter, as it were. A senator noted, people often pause in these adjustments, although the longer - term group seems to be expanding. Another is that these are people who are in a very peripheral position and who may not have been too eager to appear publicly and acknowledge their position in a community. I think we on the committee have to work very closely on where we're going to broadcast the case, so we're going to hear the voice of these people whom the bill comes in to cover directly. However, there are intermediate groups involved in the affairs of people who receive social assistance from rural communities, such as the welfare department, the national church, the motherhood committee, some of these people who know very well about their position. How we hear their voice directly, I can't answer it right now, but I think it's very important that the committees pass it well and see if we can reach them directly in any way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Now we are discussing changes in laws dealing with a fundamental social security network. The 1991 law of the law, the current law, determines that the individual is a source of security and the conditions needed for him to live and thrive naturally in association with others. It's the spirit of that law. Now changes are being made, and certainly under the pretext that things must be harmonized between a country partner, which may be understandable, but they are in the direction that I believe to change the spirits of the law marvelously. I want to ask you why. A senator will be able to agree with me and whether she knows how to prepare this bill and the diagnostics that have been asked for who is most likely to suffer this loss. Now we know the figures from Reykjavíkurburg that show that most people who receive assistance from Reykjavík are young single mothers. If they are affected, they will receive only help that naturally does not work to support a family in any way. We've recently been informed about the numbers of poor children in Iceland, and I'm asking why. A member of the council whether this would increase poverty and whether it is known in this respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u30	V.E.G. President. First, very brief about the spirit of the law. I agree with what. The foreman that this changes their spirit. I don't think I'm in the spirit of being this final safety network that should catch the person once the individual has been compromised by the function and sectoral involvement and community involvement. As for the preparation for the bill, I don't know any more about him than anything you can read in the encores with the bill. That is exactly where I have noticed that this bill is spoken of as having a positive financial impact on the interests of my rural society. This may well be, and it may not be unlikely that some will stop receiving financial support. Similarly, the Office of Economic and Economic Affairs reports that this is merely a matter of the effect of legalization on the financial resources of the state. What I feel is lacking is further analysis and calling for information from our neighboring countries that have taken effect conditions on the social impact of this on the group that for some reason has not wanted to go to efficiency. What will happen to him, and what will be his posts? I think this is a huge deal to me that we can't just throw people out of financial support and then think of it as being the other group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u31	A respectable president. Are these not the major problems with the changes being proposed here? Of course, we need to ask ourselves, " What will happen to those who are not able to help and how to gather information about them? ' Can we use the experience of a local partner who has experimented on this? I've asked about this in Hafnarfjörður, and there's no information about what happened to those people who fell out there. The government and the government have just approved a shorter recovery period for unemployment. So they hung up on very short notice. We know the difference between unemployment and the development of the rural society. The employment compensation is the rights that people have earned, and it has other laws, but there are better compensations or more money that people get through unemployment benefits than the financial support of the local community. Now, in order to save a government fund, save 1 billion, time was cut from three years to two and a half and entered a three - sided agreement, the state broke it, between employers and unions, and the state. In addition, this is being inserted as a form of permission for impairment. The Regulation for some reference height is then to be published but, in itself, rural society will remain free of charge in this regard. I want to ask you why. A senator would not consider this to be a little vivid to the government's actions as she looks at fishing expenditures and money taxes on the other hand and then how to obtain money from the poorest people in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u32	V.E.G. President. I think this is where it's at. paritaprevir Harðardóttir G. A little toughy on the head by drawing out the contrast as the highest. In fact, a government is setting up in society, i.e. On the one hand, relief from all the duties and curses of the more wealthy and those who are in a position to contribute something to the community and, on the other, to press still on to the circumstances of those who live in what is lacking in our society. This is my opinion that the way to run one piece of community is totally wrong, because, of course, those who have the capacity are supposed to be those who suggest and put them on the less farms. Then, in a good world, it would be possible to arrange for the social systems to function so that they could push people up, so that later they could become part of the community. So here is a very difficult way to approach the worst - grade group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u33	President. I'm very pleased with the coverage this case has received. The deeper I discuss, and the consequences, especially the worst of the principles, I want to add at the highest. A minister should open the law of guilt. It is not possible in civilized society to starve people to obedience. That's not possible. I don't think it's acceptable. I don't think it's acceptable that we here say we're in a welfare community and we're meeting an inhuman attempt to get money from the state box by reducing the right to unemployment, rights that people have earned, taking away from three months. Suddenly, people were confronted with Christmas on 10 days'notice that they were not entitled to unemployment. Of course, this has been a problem for the communities. I understand the locals want something in return. It's an excel-politic thing that we don't share here. I don't believe that at the highest. Minister she thinks it's something she's standing up with and falling in love with. I don't believe it. Happily, many members of the council here are waking up to this evil dream. It is clear that this case will require careful treatment on a welfare committee, which will include a report on the health care care department involved in Iceland's poverty. In our small community, the system has become so complicated that too many people are falling into the holes. People do not disappear from poverty by taking away their rights for improvement. It just sinks even deeper. We cannot be known to do this rather than promote measures for the sake of long - term unemployed people. Will we force people to accept employment that they are not prepared to do? There have been insufficient research on the welfare issues in this case. There have, of course, been excellent research at the expense team and what you can save on this. But you don't save in the long run by breaking human rights, you don't. Every person who has ever experienced the long term of having to count every cent for a month and even long before knows in his heart that the suggestion to starve people to obedience is inhuman and shameful. I will do everything I can to encourage the highest. A minister to turn away from this route and to encourage the members of the greater section on the welfare committee to consider these matters very carefully and to address these inhumane regulations and to consider how to encourage and strengthen them. It is known that those who have been unemployed for a long time find it very difficult to get back into the job market. Another situation in many rural areas is unemployment. We need to find other solutions. I pray to the highest. After listening to a panel of senators who are deeply concerned about this matter, particularly the law to eliminate half of their monthly fees, the matter is supported by the matter taken out of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u34	V.E.G. President. I thank Senator Birgitta Jónsdóttir. In this country, many rural communities are in a position to handle their assignments, but most of them provide exemplary services in various ways. In the face of economic difficulties, it has been found that the proportion of people who need financial support is increasing. Then it reduces the percentage again when the situation improves. Now we were affected by the collapse of the financial system, the currency, and the trust in the general community, which has more long - lasting influence. I'd like to ask the senator if she thinks a minister's response is normal. She has read here a list of the communities that require conditions, which are highly questionable and not considered solidly reliable. Then the minister responds by granting them this correction. We saw that the affairs of the motion services of disabled people are in disrepute, and no one who can accept that situation. A minister has called people to his meeting, and there is a great deal of trouble that is normal. Would it not have been natural for a minister to respond to this group of people and to meet the local communities by some means in order to finance financial support instead of granting them conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u35	President. Thank you so much for the inquiry from what. Senator. Of course, it would have been only natural to respond in a different way to terms of financial support. Let us not forget that the financial support people receive from the local community is very low. No one is saying anything because living under poverty is so great. They don't say anything to rurality because when people need support from their community, they're humiliating, it's hard, you have to go through a very tight process. Each one has his own social worker who takes him through things, and in Iceland it's like when you come to the country, you have to become some sort of systems scholar to understand your rights to the Company. It's just that way. In countries where we live, we like to be on days, in the North, e.g. in Denmark, when you get to a community there, you get all the information about your rights. There is the sky and sea between the project and support for those in the difficult situation of having to report to rural areas. But what are we going to do, and what are we going to do about it? No, we're gonna take it down. We can truly introduce and contribute to their limitations. Of course, it should be so that we give time and energy to find resources to help people get out of difficult situations. We know exactly which groups are the ones that can't get a job. Let's face it. We cannot eliminate the problem. We can fix it and support those we're supposed to protect for their interests, but don't make life harder for them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, we agree that going to the countryside for financial help to be needed is a situation that no one wants to be in. In this conditional speech, there is some form of Mexican superiority, that people don't respond to someone, and they need to help them do their job, and the most likely way is to humiliate them further. In this way while the rich are getting richer, does the senator feel that those who have been remembered and have become inferior, less responsible, and more lenient, so that it is necessary to change the law in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u37	President. No, I guess it's rather that those who have the most become lazy, gayer, and we might have to put the focus on each gap between those who have least and those who have the most are always growing. I'm particularly concerned about some particular groups that will experience this change of law. There are groups, such as a single parent and their children. There are older people, people who have their social security number, and it's much harder for them to get a job. It's not because people don't try, they try, they try, and they don't even answer when they've been looking for a job. What I fear, if I may speak perfectly honestly here, is that people will move away from this remedy. There are just so many tools that help people to function. When you're doing social work with a country club, you need to stay on the job search through a workforce. That's how you stay in a network. I fear that many will move to disability because they become depressed and suffer other chronic illnesses because there is no hope when people are forced into overwork, such as to take a job, e.g. Watch - work, with no physical or mental potential. For example, have there been studies of how long people are involved in these forced business arrangements? I don't like this way, and I hope we don't have any good luck. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I share with her worry about what happens to these individuals. No matter how few they are, these are people who get up in the morning and have to lean somewhere after the day and have to eat and get through the days, one day at a time, but have to get through. In fact, I'm told that there is no other language, which is a place where there must be evil, because we have thought in Iceland no matter what the history of people, what their background is, what their attitude is, what it is called in the social service hearings today, without even measures, that they have to have the right to exist. What worries me about this case is how cold my approach is. She's kind of completely cut out this human factor. So I want to ask you why. A senator, because I've been looking at the papers coming from the health care department, which are good: How can a plan together which speaks of the importance of eliminating poverty and at the same time suggest that this group, this poor group, be used under pressure and threats to behave in some way that is acceptable to governments?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u39	President. I thank the senator for his inquiry as well as a very good speech on this matter. Of course it's not going together. It's a little like schizophrenia is headed somehow. I think it's characteristic of a number of policy issues in this series of issues. For example, you have to look at these matters in a very difficult situation in a house - to - house market where it seems that you lack all political motivation to deal with the circumstances and conditions that are present. It's an emergency, and as shown in an antiquated situation. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Inglebjörður Ingadóttir is such that when a society falls into a complete collapse like ours, there is, of course, an enormous unemployment, and there is truly unemployment in the community and in different places. And then it gets smaller, and maybe there'll be some left without a job, and there's a reason. Often, they have nothing to do with anything but what age of people or people can't take any job because they have children, for example. I know that there are other measures that are much more efficient and that are often not limited to efficacy; often you have to get people to work that is not necessarily professional, but that can be training or increasing education. There are some such options available in the Labour Organization, so I don't feel that this way is acceptable. I don't want to live in a society that makes these things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is certainly worth considering that when we come here and are in a recovery process, so to speak, after the biggest financial breakdown in Iceland and, although elsewhere, there are others in the room when the minister of finance comes in the platform and prime minister, talking about recovery in the economy and talking about the right pace now and it's all due to how good and useful this government is and how reasonable the action of her table is. At the same time that this group is being encouraged. You might think, " Wait, yes, now we've got a lot more between our hands, now that there's more light between our hands, and now let's show them that we're even better, more generous, and more reasonable with those who work hard in the community. ' What, then, is done? Then the unemployment relief period is reduced and people are thrown out by a god, with a single pen dash, and suggested that they condition social services from the local community at this time. We are not at the time that we are looking at each column because society collapsed. We are at the time when people say, " We don't have to collect money taxes, we don't have to have all the money it can pay, etc. ' These are so vulnerable to the fact that they are moving the burden to these people, to unemployed people, to sick people, and to people who are members of the community service. Why? It is carrying the load of those who have the most. If there is a matter of Congress somewhere that will well expose the policy of this government, I think it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u41	President. Yes, it is true that the opposite is true. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, and a lot of concern. Of course, this shows a lack of policy in the government, for it was clear to the election that this was not the reality to offer the most vulnerable groups to the voters of the Agency. I feel like I'm just saying it again, I think it's very important. The welfare committee will consider in detail a similar example in other countries, whether it is possible to create a link in the history of each person who needs support. I think that it would be a great waste for us because, as I hear so much of people, as I know many senators do, and for so many people who are aware of their own difficulties, they are subject to the fact that they are elderly, desperate, out of work, lost everything, etc. Their hearts deteriorated in the collapses, since relatively few of the terms had to get worse so little so that they would be much worse. We would be so wasted that we would only give them a group of room instead of getting ahold of him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u42	A respectable president. We're still talking to a bill of the highest order. Social and housing minister for changing local social services laws. I think, now that the end of the discussion is in place, it would be nice to consider the basis for social services legislation. We may even be able to try to look for some sort of social cover - up goals that are not spoken at all, but we have a red thread through the fact that we have to put in writing basics and legal legislation of this class. I would like to claim that it is the common objective of all of us who are in charge here and have legislation and authority to say that our chief objective is a better society, a good society, that is what we want to see happen with these legislation and other laws, i.e. that society should be better, that we should be able to do what is good in society, and bring better things that are not as good. I can't imagine any man would object. In the national social services Act, 40/190, which is being changed by the bill of Social Affairs Ministers, says - and this is also important because we have been discussing here what is the real objective of the bill which is a cold bill, as I mentioned it earlier in response to that. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. In 1st. Your own law says, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of rural social services is to ensure financial and social security and contribute to the well - being of the people on the basis of community support. You should do so by a. to restore the life of those who pass by, b. to ensure the developing condition of young people, c. To provide help that the inhabitants may live as far away as possible from home, and have their jobs, and live as normal lives, d. taking action to prevent social problems It looks like nothing more than the highest. Ministers have lost sight of their own law's aim to submit the bill. I gave you the highest charge. Minister yesterday in his dealings with her in the General's deliveries in not forgetting the important duty she is responsible for in the Iceland Board of Directors. It is a shift for poor people, that is a shift for these goals, the fundamental goals that are to consider for those who are in favor of society. Of course, that's what everyone should do. But the social minister's watch is desperate, she's desperate. It's her job at the Board of Directors to keep her social and social glasses on her nose with all the questions asked. We sometimes talk about wearing glasses, we sometimes talk about looking out for the interests of future generations in all our decisions, and all of us need to try not to lose sight of all the factors in making decisions. But the task of a social minister is number one, two and three to remind all of us at once and if we lose sight that a good society is then, and then only good for everyone, everyone. That's why I wanted here, a respectable president, in this brief second talk at 1st. The point is just to note that it is extremely important not to lose sight of our community primary goals here that all the time need to think about debet and credit and that everything goes well, but first of all, we are creating a society in which everyone can live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u43	President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, and I thank you for the conversation we've had about this matter in the Senate Hall. I will be very closely observing and doing what I can to keep it going, and I will be confident that it will not work out. The senator will do the same as those members of the council who have taken the most important part in the matter. This is exactly what people who write the law do not seem to understand how dramatic the consequences of one letter can be for each person's life and foreordained by the law. This is a rather selective group of people. What can we do to help those who need it most? If I, as a mother, ask another mother to threaten or encourage her child, what would be more effective? Which will result in better results?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u44	A respectable president. It's a little fun to be given the opportunity to exchange good advice and training experience here. But I don't think I need it, we're here with Špedógörgörgótttir, and it's such a fun thing to do, though, that there are some teachers who are involved in this discussion. It may not be a coincidence that the currents and policies of parenting and all the learning that depend on dealing with people are now turning away from a criminal policy to motivate people, looking to what they can but not to what they cannot, looking to where their strengths are, not where they are, but where they are weak, to look for what they can do, but what they cannot do. In all of this, there is a guide, that is the task of helping the local community or the one in life to be improved by local social services, to strengthen their self - image, and to live with dignity. Do you do so by reducing the chance that someone will go to sleep satisfied? Do you do so by reducing the chance of changing clothing? Do you do so by reducing the chance that a person might get a haircut and be able to attend the meeting with his assistant so that he feels like a man meeting a man and not like a receiver who meets a host?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u45	President. Illustrating, positive counsel and positive ways, ways that build you up instead of breaking a person down are the most likely to produce results everywhere, we know that. It was once thought that it would be good to raise children by spanking them. Fortunately, we have disappeared completely from the policy as a civilized society. It's a little bit like that. When I heard of this case, I just didn't say that someone thought it was the way to activate people. Yes, it may well be that some will be more effective, but in the long run, I think that the activity that is created because you can't do anything else is going to end badly. If you take on something that you cannot cause, it will end in disaster. I guess I, as a citizen of this country, don't want to live in a community that's heading that way, I don't want to. I don't want as a senator in this community to participate in allowing such a matter through the General. I promise, and I'm sure I will. A senator agrees with me that I will do whatever I can and use all the equipment available here to stop this journey, because what can we expect if we agree to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u46	A respectable president. I think of some information I received a few years ago regarding the approach that was used in one of Finland's rural communities that was about using creation and culture as social resources, i.e. opening the usual approach to expression and creation as a step toward real confidence and activity. I think it's a good example. I've thought about this a lot since then. They need to work together and connect more closely with culture, activity, and social resources. One of the most important things in this is to secure a community without separation, so they are not resources for these people, but they are about real involvement in society all the way society wants to be, i.e. that we don't have courses, resources, efficiency tools, etc. for these people so that they can, in turn, fulfill the conditions that the rest of us share in our community. This segregation is also a policy that has fallen to the point of killing the initiative. It's complicated. But it's exactly the same ideologies there, like the ideologies I and what I have. A senator argues about immigrants, as far as those with disability and all who are more often than not limited to society. [[The president calls.]] That is the real challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u47	Mr. President. This case has moved on the horizon for quite some time, and I have my belly, because it marks the right course of hell. In fact, I don't think that many who believe in this ideologies are aware of the fundamental changes involved. I don't think it's because people hurt. I have previously stated in this sermon that it is easy to speak for people to be responsible, that people are willing to handle their problems, and so on. I don't think that this case has fallen into the opposite. Iceland had a high unemployment rate in the early '90's. That was when socialism had come to power in Reykjavík. They worked in harmony with the new 1991 social service laws and showed great ambition. Those who found themselves in financial support and who were having difficulty getting into a job market, had fallen out of school for various reasons, and were unable to support themselves, received a very large amount of service. It was not as if people were ignored. So there was a service. You could say the devil in it. All of this was done to move people to develop their sense of identity and to be discouraged from taking steps in life's progress. Such threats would never have been possible. I want to ask you why. A senator of why she considers this policy possible. What is it in our society that calls for this exact course? Where is the problem that we need to overcome?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is called marketism, moneyism, right direction, and sometimes a novelisticism. It's about the fact that society is not really about people, it's about business. This is very related to what was presented here in emphasis. Healthcare secretary for the management of health care programmes; this is very related to this discussion. This is closely related to a number of priorities that all are about to disappear from the community's need for solidarity and that those who have more to pay in general and collective funds and that they enjoy the most. You see, society is a society, it's not a business unit. It is suggested that social viewpoints and strings in the community, labor movements, interest groups, and subsidiary groups, which are guided by these goals, as well as by the political movements that are considered to be of importance to maintain that society is precious and that it takes time to restore vandalism to society. That was the short answer, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Marketingization. Today, the market is all right to resolve things, but it is very dangerous when blind belief in marketing solutions causes serious welfare problems and reduces rights and ideals. I'd like to take an example. Recently, cleaning women were expelled from the Iceland Board of Directors. The medical services were offered, and the terms for the remuneration are inferior. Recently, travel services for disabled persons were invited out. Two disabled women who worked in the ministry lost their jobs. There are low - paying classes in a somewhat delicate position in which governments make decisions that directly deprive people of professional security. There are women from this group who will primarily suffer for this law. I encourage that instead of meeting those in need of community assistance to hold on to authority and then call on those in charge of the labour market so that the labour market does not continue to become less confident and more uncertain. We also provide the rights and security of the remuneration workers rather than give in to the work and then force the people to work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u50	A respectable president. I can say every word you say. Senator. Actually, I'd like to add to the fact that I want to believe in the longest law that there's a nerve in the candidates here, I don't give up, but among many of the group of 19 people who see this isn't working. It is impossible to speak for socialism and social solutions, to flaunt the reports and conclusions of the welfare department, which are about fighting poverty, wherever it appears, in one word, and then to present this bill in the other word. It's not working together. On the other hand, if people are going to take this step to the full, I would like to challenge the government classes to take the step fully and change the Law No. 40/1991, of rural social services, which says that social services aims to ensure financial and social security and to contribute to the well - being of the population on the basis of community assistance to the inhabitants. The above adjustment is not in harmony with the objective of the law. You have to face it. They need to take the step to the full, and they need to meet the rules of social services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u51	A respectable president. The government of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, has been called the government of the rich people. A government government made up of a forwarding party and an independent party has been called the government of the rich party. Some government officials have been a pain in hearing this title, especially those in attendance who still accept the ideal for cooperation and well - being. But when you look at the actions of the government, it is impossible to accept that the title is fair. What has the government done? She dropped the fishing fees, dropped the wealth tax, and much of the correction goes to people who don't need it. We're talking about the development, which has rarely been in the most successful business conditions, and we're talking about the richest people in the country and then a debt correction that goes to a large part of the people who are well up to their commitments. But tenants are left there, which, however, has paid rent according to prices, which is more often than our poorest people. When asked about the correction of debt, why is there not so much to be seen primarily by those who bought at the worst time and where the cost of an apartment was highest and the highest, why not directly there, the answer is to the management: it's because it's done so much for those who had little hands between the last term, now it's time for the rest, for the rich people. Hence, money, support, and discounts run into that part of the community. At the same time, taxes are raised on necessities. A respected supplementation tax on food was increased. True, because of the removal of sugary foods, the cost of purchases was unsolvable, but the necessities were increased. The decline in unemployment reformation period of about six months was at the time of the year, and the average microenergy burden is to be taken off in stages. Then the colleges were closed, high - school supermarkets in high school, where students 25 years old should not be allowed to study books. It's all for savings. It's all done for savings. Those who made money on the fall of the crown, such as forging and exporting branches, get benefits and discounts, which are to come in with economy, get money into the state's budget by shortening time for long - term work. And now, a respectable president, is to do even better and set up laws on the decrease in the financial support of a unit. When the unemployment reform period was cut short, and the state's budget gained a billion dollars during that operation, it was clear that part of the problem would go to the rural community, the number would increase that would then be added to the financial support of rural society. However, the time has only been cut short, but the bill shows that to allow decommissions in the rural areas, and it is probably in order to meet the burdens the State was putting on to the rural communities by reducing the period of unemployment. A respectable president. This is serious news, and it is very important to look at it in this context. The government of rich people goes all the way, it goes all the way. There are billions who go to the richest people in society, and in turn, the poor are confined to the poorest. Not only is it the right course that goes too far but I let myself say that it includes human wickedness and lack of understanding of what it is to be poor and to have to look to society for material advantages. A recent report has been published by economologists OECD discussing the equation and benefits of this if combined. More and more economists come forward and say that what the countries are supposed to do is work on more equations, and at the same time there are many benefits. People feel better, they get healthier, they make things better in society, and there's a lot of money. There was a rift, and inequities had increased over the years before collapse. When all went down, the odds went up. What's going on right now is that the inequities and discrepancies are increasing, and by the actions of the government it will be rapid and certain to occur. This is done in Iceland, where we have just been exasperating ourselves from unbiased situations and should be built up in spirit, which is once again the way it is being handled. In that spirit, it's the bill we're discussing here. Hv. paritaprevir In his speechSigríður Sigurdíbjörg Ingadóttir discussed what this means in sums, and I want to review that part of her speech. She pointed out that in Rhinestown, financial support is at 129,766 k. It is the financial aid available. This bill allows half of that money at a time of two months, and special assistance may be left to you for six months or even for six months. They're talking about people who need assistance in the development of their communities, that's 50 percent less than 130 you're allowed. K. Which, then, means 65 you. K. per month. What are we doing here, a respectable president? Who are the members of the financial aid of a team member? We know the figures from Reykjavík, where most of them are single mothers. We've talked here, both government and management, about how many children live in poverty in Iceland. And we're adding and doing even better in that area. It's a disgrace. In Western countries, financial support is at 145,473 p.m. in the month but in Reykjavík 174,952k, which is the best aid available to the local community. Of course, the way to encourage people is to continue, not threatening them with even greater poverty and even more trouble. A respectable president, let's not forget that we're talking about the foundation security network, we're talking about helping people who can't find anything else. As mentioned earlier in this discussion, the 1991 Social Help Act is designed to provide security and the necessary conditions for a person to live and thrive naturally in association with others. It's the spirit of the law. Hv. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir Savvarsdóttir read some of the principles of the law earlier, and what is proclaimed in this bill is in total opposition to it. So we're talking about changing the 1991 financial law that is not in harmony with their spirit of law. Hv. The welfare committee must consider these matters in that light. A respectable president. Of course, I can say that it is important to contribute more closely to financial support and, of course, to make changes. However, to authorize the decrease and legalisation, and not to set up any rules in the law, but to allow a minister to set in the Regulation some of the rules that, if it seems necessary, should be followed, what is it? The thought of that must be that since the government was cutting down the period that people can be on unemployment benefits and part of the community's cost has to be done something for the communities. They're not thinking in the spirit of the law they're now changing. A respectable president. I suppose that's what it is. The welfare committee will handle these matters well. I understand that rural communities, where financial support has multiplied, look at such laws, and think that such a change will make them easier to run their communities, but that thought cannot be done on top. Instead, rural communities are to be more developed and strengthened to handle the situation, to set up effective measures, and to encourage people in their difficult situation. Nobody's in that position for fun. I myself have run a rural society, and I have watched people take the heavy step of asking for help. This bill can't accept what it is, because it brings in wickedness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u52	Mr. President. It may not always be the big thing or the big things that people feel are the most important or are the most symbolic of what humans are thinking. I was thinking about it here before Christmas when I saw in the news this morning that the rainy women mentioned in the Board of Directors, the Ministry of State and other council members are being re-enacted by the Greek Ministry of Economics. There's a different policy today for the Iceland government and the government of Greece. I guess we can say that one side is the government of rich people and the other side of the public or the people. In fact, I don't think it's a good name, it's not the government of rich people in the general sense of that word, it's a lot more than money, and maybe it's basically rich in other things, good health, child loans, or other things. It's the natural government of the super-rich people, the government of rich people, those who have economic wealth, because when you look at its work, it's the class that it's put together most of all. It is those who have enormous financial assets paid a wealth tax that has now been dropped. These are the 3,000,4,000 richest families in the country. This, of course, is striking when we receive these figures now as to the tremendous amount of material in this country. I wanted to ask you why. A senator, for she referred to her experience as a platoon leader and of running a unit. In fact, many have appealed to their teacher's education, and it is appropriate to inform that the one mentioned here can refer to that group, having a scrotum test in teaching and training. But isn't there some way to imagine that countries and communities are coming together to watch this whole business, the unemployment insurance system, and social assistance? I'm referring to what we've seen right now, that the state reduces the one - sided unemployment process, the rural society weighs its demands that they reduce financial support for fear of perhaps moving expenses into them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u53	A respectable president. I think it's just right that it's very important to look at things in general, watch what the State is doing, and then what happens when their rural communities come into existence. What seems to be lacking is a consultation between the state and the local community. We saw it here, when we were discussing the budget bill, that the cut-off period seemed to surprise the local communities. They protested: "This is going to happen to us, and the state isn't supposed to be saving it, and then the savings will just come down in another government. So I think it's very important to coordinate these actions. At the same time, we need to keep in mind that unemployment insurance is completely different from community service. That is why we should look at it in a different way. On the one hand, human rights are earned, but when it comes to this, the community needs to be viewed differently, and it needs to be viewed differently. What seems to be happening with this bill is somehow putting it together, that it's unemployment, and then social assistance is much worse and heavier than somehow with the same conditions. So, yes, let us see this in context, but remember the difference between these two systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u54	Mr. President. Of course, I realize that the unemployment relief system and that period is different, and I actually came into it, I think, in either of my talks on this subject. This includes a totally different view of the possibilities of pushing people to the jobseeker's file, if they have not taken care of their resources, etc. There are, of course, people who have recently come out of a workforce and are in a position quite different from those of this group who have to rely on the development of their community. Nevertheless, it is this way, and I think I know the examples of other countries, that these divorces are not so sharp, not so sharp, that it is somehow a right which belongs to a labour market that dies and then waits only for financial assistance from a rural society. If I remember correctly, the dance system is in much greater stages, trying to keep people in their arms on the whole way. I think that it should be just that: doesn't this have to be a progressive or progressive process that doesn't bring about this sharp and sad understanding, since it does, of course, make a difference in nature? On the one hand, you have a right to support you if you have lost your job and because you were in a job market and that you have nothing else to wait for, and you have no other resources but to go to the countryside for financial or financial assistance. For example, would it not be possible to have it so that at the end of the age of unemployment, there would be an intersecting situation where things would work and the rest would be pushed further into the future if nothing else were finally offered? Then I'm in and looking to how hard and difficult it is for everyone to take and how they can encourage the danger of giving up, losing hope, and becoming trapped in the position they eventually find themselves in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u55	A respectable president. I just want to agree with it with what. A senator, they are well - known, the difficult side effects of long - term inactivity. There is something that happens inside people, and people need help to get out of their position. It will not be done with threats as expected in this bill. I want to agree with what. A senator said that this system needs to be changed, to be guided, and to have more steps in the process. A respectable president. I'm afraid the Ministers are the highest. A government in charge at this time does not understand the importance of being careful and encouraging and holding people when they have been long out of work. It seems to me that they don't have that understanding. It can't be that they're going into this business just to save money, on the other hand, cut short a billion dollars to save the country's money, and on the other hand, legalizing reduces the financial resources of rural society to save money. That can hardly be the case. I think this is just because they don't understand the situation and are so determined that the bread crumbs theory remains, even though it has been demonstrated worldwide that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker's speech and share with her many speculations and in many respects the vision she has on this subject. Perhaps my main desire is to ask the senator about the politics behind. I agree that this is an example of a repute case because of the clearness of politics. It's not a terrible big issue, but it includes very much political content, which completely agrees with so many other factors established by the government. In fact, I think this clear politics is why the requirement for change in the community is becoming stronger and the support of the government parties is on the decline. The government support is on the decline. Why is that? Yes, it is because they are not authorized to do this. They weren't the kin to do this. They were chained by a certain degree of abuse, which we can have and have all the possible opinions on, but it has been met, which I choose to have within the expense of this steeded-for-the-concerning action that was never mentioned in the campaign. That was never mentioned. The privatization of the health system was never mentioned, and there are other things that are clearly right political and extremely radically right politics, far more radical than one would have believed. But surely not now, and in some ways progress is more powerful in its right politics than the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] I ask, What are the most important tasks? And I think we need to get ready for it. What are the most important tasks in Icelandic society in order to improve the equation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u57	A respectable president. In my speech, I concluded that there are still future candidates who cooperate with the ideals and want to improve their well - being. But, unfortunately, when the candidates and independent members of this government now seem to have their right complements in both groups swollen out and become on top of their policy, and that's very clear, just as it would be. A senator pulled out. The right course is very clear, and it goes all the way. Then they ask why. A senator whatever assignments we must take in order to improve the balance in our community. Then, first of all, we need to put aside the bill we're discussing here and stick to the spirit of the law from 1991. We need to go back with decisions made by the right government, and we need to open the public school system, for example. behind 25 years of age and older students who want to study books, that is one of them. Education is very important for the development of society and for economic growth in society, and it was a strange choice made here as a means of saving the population of higher schools. Then we need to look to a pay policy in order to improve the balance in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. There is one thing that may not have been discussed in this discussion, and we have also not discussed much when talking in general about unemployment reform systems, social assistance, sensibility and disability, etc., the ideologies that violate the status of individuals who have to rely on some kind of social contributions to draw life. In this discussion, there has been a bit of a talk about taking on heavy steps, that it is a serious step to accept compensation. I think it's one of our missions to turn that speech over. I think it's important that we, as part of a community discussion, maintain that it is the community right of every person to live, and the community as a whole is responsible for it. It's not about accepting compensation. It's about getting what's right. At times, it has been said that we should talk about community pay rather than other terms used when discussing the improving system in general. I think it's important, based on the thought that it has to be based on such donations temporarily or on longer periods of time, you can do so without feeling that it is of little value to the community or to you in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u59	A respectable president. In this regard, it may be interesting to watch OECD's report on how important an equation is and how important it is to strengthen the health system so that everyone has access to it regardless of the economy and the same value as the educational system. And as soon as the difference between the poorest and the rich becomes, there will be great disagreements in society and circumstances that are harmful, just harmful. In fact, it is said that circumstances that inequities in communities can cause sickness, physical illness, apart from the mental and the anger that has destructive effects and bad consequences on society. So we are to do all we can to increase the equation as we in our government situation must use us against the rich right policy reflected here in one after another from the highest degree. Government. The sooner these things go away, the sooner the government of the progressive and independent is removed, the better. We have many years of experience with government work like this, but the combination has never been worse than right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u60	V.E.G. President. Unfortunately, I couldn't be here yesterday when the discussion began on this matter, or couldn't, and I'm sorry. Thank you. Councilmen who have discussed the matter today for their speeches. As the years go by, you learn. I was in the Township of Grindavik. That was just a lot of discussion there. I wondered why these laws are being passed, why they are being installed, why they are behind it. It's not new, I don't think it was coming in right now. This has been part of the discussion for a long time. You see the motivation for making a law like this is that the system is being abused. There are an amazing number of people who abuse this system. For example, there are plenty of people who live together but who are not registered to live together in order to obtain money from community assistance. Then you wonder why it is. This may be because in our good country, we are talking about as one of the best countries in the world, there is a low pay policy and a low salary. In the wake of the collapse, unemployment, which resulted in a tremendous increase in unemployment rates. In my own home area, on Smokeytown and elsewhere, the situation was particularly terrifying. You start to wonder why we are always getting into situations like this that we are not ready to deal with. The society is not prepared to cope with such traumas, such as the talk about elderly ones today, how much they increase, and so forth. I think it's about that too, as shown in the speeches. Senators, what kind of community we want to build in Iceland. Which way is the community in Iceland? That's an amazing big question to me. What kind of community do we want to build up here? I have previously reported in my talks that my children have studied in the United States. I went there twice. There have been tremendous marketism and right - to - face for decades, e.g. ... California. In some way, we need to find solutions to which we can get people to the workforce, which is very discreet. We do this by taking it now. If we go along to meet the worst in the community, I think we'll get a community like Hollywood Boulevard in Los Angeles where there's no way for poor people who have no place to go anywhere, there's an outing everywhere. It'll happen here if it goes on like this. I want Icelanders, 330,000 people, to live in such a society that is so rich in resources, so I'll say it again, right here, topv. Mr President, in a speech chair? This is no place for poverty. Yet, it was recently found that over six thousand people live in so much poverty in this country. What kind of witness is that about us, the governing system, and other things? It has also been observed that at the same time, this is a relief from the billions of people who own the money in the country. I have to tell you one story about when I was in town government in Grindavik. At that time, five young people were helping with the town's financial support. They were unable to do anything in their affairs. We agreed on that, the workplace I was working on, and the social worker, to do something dramatic to see if we could help them more. Then it was decided to tell them that if they would not take their job, they would have to be cut off. That cruel thing made them say yes and come. I took up two youths, 18 and 19, at my job. When I first asked them how they felt, how they were doing, it was the older boy's answer: "I feel like sour milk. Both were completely broken, without self - respect, self - esteem, or self - confidence, living in terrible social conditions. Today, three years later, they have completed both their two - year course and are in the job market. Last week, I met the 18 - year - old girl, who embraced me and thanked me for what I had done for her. We gave her life. We gave them both lives with this. This may have been because they were threatened, as pathetic as it is. We need to find ways to solve these problems. We agree, as did the Treaty of Human Rights, and in the 76th Constitution, it is so clear that we must not violate these people. Our community is about the fact that no matter how difficult it is, everyone's right to life is guaranteed. I've often said so here in the public discourse that we should aim all our laws and all our rules, our changes, our bills, and other things to improve the interests of the worst. Those who accept financial and social assistance from rural society are the worst members of the community. I can also say that I took up one little boy for a single mother who accepts assistance from my community. Just taking this boy into my life completely changed this family's life, self - respect, self - esteem, satisfaction, and happiness. I don't feel like sharing and sharing in Icelandic society today. How do we want to live, talk about one another, think about one another, and support those who are in a hurry? There are a lot of people in Iceland who are in a state of distress. I myself worked for 30 years, worked in fish, and I'm not gonna tell you how hard it was to make ends meet. My wife's a nursery teacher. Today, I am a senator with a fine salary, although some may not feel that it is high enough. She's a director, and she's fine. We've set up our rivers properly. But I don't understand how people who work in the fishing grounds between darkness start living today. During the New Year's season, for example, food was raised in worthy tax. I'll talk to these people every day, my friends I worked with the darkness between the weekends, at any time, in the country, in cunning. These people can't even afford to take vacations. Maybe that's why we have people in financial assistance, the lowest salary is so low. There is no need for anyone to go to the job market. It is better to be on unemployment, which is tragic. We must never put any laws that humiliate people or make them feel like they are, I'm telling them straight out, you losers. We must never make such rules. There must be some way we can do this better. The government has spoken of homes as the driving force of society and community projects in which we must care for those less fortunate. For example, cutting unemployment was a absurd operation for six months, to me, which still increased the cost of our rural communities. Why are our communities doing this? It's done in cooperation with them, it's definitely done. It makes me think that the country and the government and others should start looking at the taxes and what they are. It is very interesting to review each autumn brochure on taxes as each city, i.e. The stress notes in each country society. It's a very interesting reading, the highest. President, because it's where you see people rich, wealthy, run businesses, live in fancy houses, have cool cars, and don't pay money to the community on income taxes. There are hundreds of thousands back from the tax and the state in the form of child reforms and interest reforms. This is the big problem. Not everyone pays to society as they should. Farmers are expected to be on hand with those whose feet are bent. We're supposed to be thinking about them all the time. We should always be ready to stand behind them. When problems arise, grab in right away. Early intervention. It's been reported in debates. How important it is to step into, help, and point out what you see involved! As a teacher - we've been doing a lot of teachers here -- sees a man with social problems and who's having problems, it's just you can see. No one can hide it. These people too often find themselves left out, being harassed. As for this bill, I hope that there will be a change. Many of my talks here, they don't have a landmark speech, but I've encouraged almost every speech that the government is improving its consultation with everyone in the community on long - term goals. How do we want to build up this community? It's been reported in debates. Councilmen say it's a small government of rich people and rich people in society. It's kind of like that. Although I'm not easy to say, that's just the way it is. I'm really sorry. They're gonna slap their chest and talk about it as soon as butter go down on every straw. It's not like that. A lot of people in the community are having a very difficult, extremely difficult time. Rather, we should be talking about a bill that was about to help them better than to limit financial assistance. I think it's based on local experience. There are a lot of people who have abused this. You know it yourself. There are people who refuse to look to their options. It's so elaborate, complicated, and difficult because no one wants it. Deep down, no one wants to be in favor of his community or what they used to call a poltergeist as pathetic a word as it is. The rural communities were originally formed to care for people who were having difficulty. This has been in Iceland for the rest of our lives to our lasting shame. I think in the near future, it's gonna be a very difficult dress fight. You can tell people that they've had enough. That's part of it, too. It's all mutual. It's this project. The first time we were discussing this when I was in the country, I didn't agree with this -- we just cut financial help with this team, we slaved it out of houses. But we cannot do so, especially when we have a constitution that forbids it and we are members of the United Nations Convention of Human Rights, where everyone has the right to life. We are to protect and do all we can to protect those who are wicked in life. There's always talk about cost and cost. What effect does it have on someone if we are talking about reducing the cost in society, coming out of the house, or onto the street, or whatever? What happens to these people? It has been found, as in Hafnarfjörður, that there is no control over what happens to people who come out of the system. That's very serious. There's got to be some options. I don't think in a community like Iceland we should be discussing this kind of thing. Unfortunately, we are. It is a testimony to the way this has been directed in recent decades and throughout history. There's just been a couple of songs coming out of the law, an idiot, and a cripple and a law from 1827. I believe that already there is. The head of the welfare committee, if I know her correctly, will have this case not approved. Rather, we will try to find the point to do it as well as in the same way as possible and offer much more help right away when people are falling out of unemployment and initiating the situation so that no one will lose dignity. The most important thing for each person is to maintain dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u61	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to start off by saying one thing because he was here talking about the horse stomach. Although I feel relatively young, I am still brought up at the beginning of my childhood in a block, where I well recall an old man who had been a lot of people. It's not that long ago, that period. I've been over exactly what songs since 1991 changed my appearance. I thank you for sharing in his experiences as a platoon leader, and I agree with him that the system we have in the community to ensure the well - being of all of us must have trust. We need to look for ways and do all we can to prevent abuse. Then the question is, How do we want to do that? Do we, as he spoke, want 6,200 people to live in a state of poverty - often among them? Are we going to change the law so we can shoot an ant with a cannon? Or are we going to try not to harm those who really need help, which is, of course, more of the people? Hv. A senator gave us an illustration of young men whom the school and society had failed, so they had come to this place, and their families could not give them the attention they needed to develop. Maybe it wasn't the threats from the local community, but maybe it was favor, which, for example, was cognizable. A senator showed them. If people live in a community, they must feel that someone believes in them and sees their potential. And don't the Senator agree with me that this means that we have social advisers, psychologists, and other professionals who educate for years to do so? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u62	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I totally agree. That's what a senator does. We all have these options. That's why our situation is so remarkable. We run a powerful social network and something else. What I may think might be most missing is how difficult it is to show love and concern for one another. I can honestly say that with the two youths I took in my time, the key to their success was that they disabled it and felt love for them. I didn't care about them, and I gave it a lot of thought that I didn't care about them and that we were doing this to help them. It turns out that these two youths were full of abilities that they could not master, but they found it after a little while with me in which we worked together every day to build them up, especially self - confidence and self - respect, which is not a small task when youths or people in general have just lived under bad circumstances for a long time, it is difficult to build confidence and self - respect. I speak from my own experience too, but that's another matter. We've got a lot of options. We just need to be ready to deal with problems as soon as such things happen and encourage people. It also states that the goal is to strengthen people for self - help. Sadly, you hear the discussion in society that some people want to be tough in these matters, but they don't see the situation. Perhaps that is why the discussion is negative. They're talking about these people being just losers who just don't want to work and shouldn't be fine. But we have the resources, and we need to make use of them. I feel that everything in the Icelandic community is missing and cared for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u63	Mr. President. A Sigurður of Guðmundsson once said that everything we take care of and take care of would be beautiful. The same is true of human teachers. We need to feel that we are important and that we are important to others. It is easy to stir up a grudge against those who receive help or compensation, especially when people live independently, have a full - time job, have a low - level job, and feel that they are using the tax money they pay into the state fund or country society in some dishonest way. It is so easy to arouse a hatred for such systems, although the vast majority of those who have rights or who need help are truly in need of them and are not using them in any way that they can, and would like to be in full control of a job market if possible. I wanted to mention one of those things. A senator came in on taxes. It is of interest that on the very last budget bill, contributions were to be made for a special effort to prevent tax fraud. It was for the insistence of the government opposition that money was reimbursed, but less than a reason, based on the income that came back. We have another example here, information about tax cover. There seems to be big states small, it's expensive, I don't know how such a business works, but bigger countries don't have any problem trying to get in on some means to buy that information. It seems there is a very small will or almost no one. Is it not strange that we are cutting people's rights in one system to ensure that fraud is prevented but would not want to be done in a system where there is real money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u64	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it's just like that, it's really weird. You wonder, " Why is it so hard to get this against the fact that it is natural, the experience of other nations has shown that this has turned a lot of money into communities? ' How much does the worm want to do this? Same with the taxes. Actually, I didn't have a discussion about the tax business in the fall, or when we were discussing the budget, but I feel that there is a great need to start considering much more about how the taxes are divided in the country and how people get away with not paying taxes to the community, not paying off into the communities, at the same time as the rest of the workers, perhaps doing small pay jobs, paying taxes, and maintaining their service to the others. It always seems that as people are richer, they pay as little taxes because they must not take the urge to get money. I've never been able to understand. It is, naturally, always a matter of what kind of community we want to live in. Do we want to increase the equation? It's clear that if we do, we'll make a better society. Yet, there are countless problems, rising crime rates, and disasters. It's just that way. I think we should, as I have said before, do it contrary to sorting. It may be difficult when these two groups that control them do not want to do so, if they have no desire to try to improve the interests of the worst, even though they claim to be doing so. There is no sign. It's supposed to be a totally social project, on the contrary, creating a beautiful society, even more beautiful than we live in that we don't want to talk it down. But there are problems here as we do everywhere else, and we need to stop them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u65	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's speech. I think that in at least part he came to the point when he first spoke of the low- wages policy in Iceland and that this is the government of rich people. One of the big problems we face today in New York City is growing in society. Everything is holding hands, e.g. Government tax policy, whoever doesn't have to pay for society and where they're cutting down, narrowing down whatever groups are getting the worst out of it. We're gonna go for a second. At least a senator agrees on the need to increase the effectiveness of the people in the community; it's about the way we do it. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator would agree with me that in this bill it has not started properly by setting such conditions for financial support, whether or not it would be better to define the basis, some sort of uniform baseline that the local government would set up on what would be minimal progress, or to ensure that there would not be a situation between people after their residence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u66	V.E.G. President. I agree with you completely. This would surely be a very good way, for it is of utmost importance that the rural community is a consistent policy for minimum targets, as this may mean that some rural communities have a policy of driving people out of their rural communities because they have such low standards. But there has been a natural minimum of the Ministry of Health on how to live in this country. That's what we're supposed to do. This is it. It simply says that these are the minimum goals in order to live a decent life. This is about it naturally, for it has always been known that the minimum growth in rural society has always been low, always. But we can watch out for such regulations or change the law to conform our policy, and it's very important that everyone is affected. I think so. Another factor that can be humiliating for reformers and those who use this service is a message that we need to prevent. I agree that it should have been first set to set some standard rules where there are consistent rules between all members of the country so that some community can't just decide to keep it this way or gay. Absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u67	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers. I have to say, I feel so wrong here. This is actually a common punishment, i.e. how we are going to meet people with financial support while we should have started at the end, putting the box on how we are going to raise them. I also found it interesting to hear it as a matter of course. In his talk about such conditions being worked. I'm just glad to hear that these youths were able to be functional and that is exactly what I want to say. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Ingibjörg's Ingadóttir could not possibly have been the cause of the threat, but because it's been accepted by someone who really wanted to help them. From that moment on, I'd like to wonder. A senator who hears his opinion: What if this hadn't worked? Now these changes may involve a much larger group than just two young people. What social situation, what social situation are we creating if we begin pushing people even further to the edge of the earth, where they have so little money to their advantage that it does not work at all, or it would be something about 70 you. K.? Shared. A senator of the fears I have because of what sort of perimeter group we could be creating with that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u68	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I'll share their concerns. Senator, absolutely. I came into it in my speech and took an example of when I was overseas the other day, where I saw exactly how society can become when situations are like this, where you can't walk down a big street no different than to bump into people who are both disabled and retarded, insane, and just poor because they have no place to go and the system has shut it down. I don't want that kind of community in Iceland, not at all. Right away. A senator speaks of the condition then it was this way, so I tell the story completely from the beginning then it was my wife who had a word at first that we could try to help these people and the debate led to it that it might be possible to do so, promoting it by putting some condition, but it was never done. Never. I know that one person did not accept this and was not affected. I came to love and concern in my speech, and I think that if we had just gone home to these young people and got to talk to them for a while, and let them know that we cared about them and that we meant what we were saying, that we wanted to help them, it would have had exactly the same effect. But that's how, as I've said many times, I don't get tired of talking about it, that we talk too little about compassion and love in the community, which is what a good society is about. We can disagree all over the hell, excuse our language, but we're supposed to stick together, strengthen each other. It's just that in a community like ours, there's people here who are having a really hard time, we live in low-pay policy, huh? A senator spoke of the euphemism, and I remember them as well in my home, beautiful people who were having a hard time. For me, it's primarily about the integration that needs to be added to our society, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u69	At a meeting of the health committee on January 21st. Elsa Lára Arnardóttir was the vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u70	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion here at the council Hall. We have been informed about the workforce in this hall recently, and it is a concern for many. This could lead to a violent conflict, and we will see to it that the decision-to-treat negotiations of the employment and the Workgroup have entered the state of the Union before it actually begins. Granted, there is always the need to be in the position of governments at such times, where groups in the general market now especially point to agreements with teachers and doctors and to believe that the public market was behind them. However, as the government has noted, these reforms have to do with specific changes in working arrangements and, in some respects, the formation of teachers class members so that there are certainly a vision of these issues different. What I'd like to do is make a subject here the highest. In this hall, the secretary of finance has repeatedly said that he sees it as a project of the labour market to agree on collective agreements but at the highest level. At the same time, prime minister has said that it is a special aim of these collective agreements to improve the terms of small and intermediate groups. V.E.G. A social security minister has also spoken in the same direction, so I am not surprised that the workers of the labour market call for some card from the government to pay for their collective agreements. In fact, I don't think that various measures taken by the government were simply a factor in promoting calmness in the job market. I have the capacity to mention the government's actions on tax issues that have fallen to the point of increasing social division, and this is the highest inadequacy of the fiscal tax, the increase in food taxation, and now, at last, the highest rate. Secretary of finance to abandon the step-traveling tax system in stages. The labour market partners have not only complained about these changes because they are directly affecting the interests of the people in the country. It is enough to mention the fact that there is a difference between the income of the executives of this country and other countries in the North, with a higher income than in other countries. These differences are directly attributed to different tax systems, since they are taxed severely in other parts of the North. Of course, this affects not only the quality but also the distribution or exchange of income. This is affected by the tax policy. Of course, another matter for the government is stability. What is that stability? Here I've made it a subject of the small - income groups especially, low - and intermediate groups, and it's normal for us to put their standards first when we look at the position in the labour market, especially after new data now appeared in the days on the dissociation of possessions in the community where the richest 10% has a total of 70%. Then we must insist on the government that the changes that are under attack, and I mentioned the changes in the tax system, push them under the curve, and do not go the other way, in the direction of the increased indiscretions. That is what we must do, and that is our goal. I would also like to mention other government procedures, the correction that benefits residents. But where do tenants stand after her? And who are the ones who fill a bunch of tenants? Is it the country's highest income? It's not the country's highest income, it's just the same low-and-traveled group that's left behind. I would like to mention other government measures that directly affect the country's interest rates, rising health - care costs. Is it not our common task here in this hall to stop at the ever - increasing payment of patients and to turn back and reduce that payment process? I'd also like to say that education, which with the last of the budgets, was limited to people under 25 years of age. Suddenly, the group of over 25 years of age does not have access to academic education in high school. What does that mean for the benefit of the people in the country? All of these are variables that influence the way we live in this society. It is important that governments do their utmost to make peace with one another in order to facilitate the unity of these groups. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, in view of the fact that we have other executives here in the government who have specifically said that the goal should be to improve the terms of low and middle income groups - I expect that to be settled behind that word - whether he agrees that this is the goal of the coming agreements. How exactly does he believe that the government's actions will affect the achieving of that goal? Does he think that the government is acting in any of these areas to pay for the success of contracts and the failure of a job market conflict?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u71	Madam President. The situation in the labour market is worthy of discussion here in this hall, with great interest in Icelandic society, that there will be a reasonable way in which all can gain improved lifestyles and continue to gain more money. Let's get a few things straight first. It has been promoted that the State has been responsible for the loss of pay and has broken up the labour market by increasing the pay of Kingdom workers from the beat to other remunerations. This isn't right. Clearly, the agreements made with about 90% of workers in 2014 focused on the employment market policies agreed on in the implementation of collective agreements last year. Exceptions from this, as it were. The advisor turned aside, is limited, and includes relatively small groups of long - term fusions and basic changes in the activity to be involved. In terms of pay development from quarter of 2013 to third quarter of 2014, the salary of a state worker has increased by 6.8%, which is greater than in the general labour market, with a 5.9% increase in salary. In the past few years, however, considering the salary of government workers has not increased more than the pay in a general labour market. It must be included in the form of a salary that has been developing over the years. The result is clear, general market has led to evolution. However, the key point is: During recent losses, the population's cost - making increase has been the largest one we've seen in this country for a long time, 56%. Unemployment is likewise decreasing, and sectoral activities are increasing. There is commendable results to be attributed, among other things, to reasonable collective agreements last year. Inflation has the lowest level, it shows the latest numbers. The late bank now predicts only 0.7% of inflation in this country during the present year and 0.8% in major business countries. It is rare to hear that inflation is prophesied here lower than in neighboring lands. Adding to this is the fact that the government has by its tax policy reduces laws on the public and the business, light down in debt homes, support of the health system and the education system, as well as greater improvements. At the same time, the state's budget has been balanced with two consecutive baseless budgets and the state's debt ratios are dropping. These are all things that contribute to improving public living levels and in support of economic stability. In the Federal Bureau of Money, which came out yesterday, we can see that economic prospects are generally quite good, including global external conditions, such as lower oil prices and improved business eyes. However, it is clear to us: Because of economic pressures in the workplace, the current economic situation is critical. In other words, what threatens stability and prosperity in Iceland are agreements that do not take into account what a professional life can live for. I miss it here at the Hall of Congress and at the General Assembly in general about these matters as to how this is viewed, under the view that it is crucial to the stability of the agreements to support the continuation of stability. There's too little talk about it here in the Senate, in my opinion, but too much effort to fuel up with some agitation at the labour market and point to the government, that it's responsible for the level of labour market tensions, etc. I've been tracking the numbers for the last year. We know what inflation is today. We know what the cost of buying was last year. This is not the basis for the government's starting of a trend that is causing the agitation that humans are referring to. What we see, however, is an old theme in which some men, often small groups, intend to separate themselves more than is common at market levels. An example of this is the agreement with doctors. Not all groups can receive the compensation that doctors requested, and in the end, even though everyone had to give something left behind in the contract with doctors. It's just a fact. Let us just face that fact and accept it and discuss the matter on those grounds here in the Hall of Congress. There, the government was faced with looking up to surgery clinics in the country that could be disabled or that they would be closed or negotiated. We found an intermediate route in this after a strike had lasted for weeks, and in fact, it had been pushed very much behind here by all classes in the council that treaties would be reached. I could not understand it any other way than to say that some of the medical requirements would be met, and I rejoice that it did. I dismiss it from me and the government that it is responsible for the turmoil that is today at the labour market but we all have a chance left, we have it absolutely in our common hand, Iceland, to reach a successful outcome. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u72	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion because it gives us the opportunity to hear the highest. For the second time on this one day, financial minister will not answer questions raised to him on the basis of the highest statements. The prime minister has agreed on the importance of the increase in the lowest salary in the coming labour agreements and the response of the secretary of finance to the means to fulfill that promise. The President of the Common Union made it clear this morning that during the withdrawal of rich and resource taxes, patients were made to participate more in costs than before there was no reconciliation. This, of course, is the highest fact. The secretary of finance has to recognize that the government's actions in the past few months have improved and the losses have increased in the wrongs, has added impatiently among underpayers and middle carers, and has therefore put up with the need for a raise. I agree with the highest. Ministers that it is very important to support collective agreements in long-term economic stability, but the government has a basic responsibility to ensure that circumstances are in a way that such agreements can be reached. Thus, earlier governments have developed a special level of communication in a labour market. It is of interest, for example, that with all the measures taken by the government in the fall, a long - standing agreement between the labour market parties and the State's contributions to certain national contracts, this government was breaking the meeting laws due to the earlier reigns of these two categories. In fact, the leaders of those two groups were confident that they would negotiate with the workforce. That's not the government's business and it hasn't. Under these circumstances, although at the highest level, it is possible to agree. Ministers on the importance of economic stability as consequences of collective agreements cannot be placed responsible for the stability of employees and underpayers alone. [[The president calls.]] It must be so that the government has a prime responsibility for it, by its tax policy and by its dress policy, to pay for stability that benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u73	Madam President. I thank you for the workforce and salary discussion we're having today. We never talk too often about the pay in this country, especially the lowest wage that has been the nationalorist for far too long. Even though it's the highest. The minister of finance hopes that we will not encourage riots, we do not have to do so. If you're completely connected to the ground and you're in line with the people in the country, you've come to realize that you've all had enough. I spoke to an officer last week who received this message at his meeting, and now he was going to be modest and ask for 300 yous. K. It's a minimum wage, but it's just a bar on the table: no, it's not available today. It is none of us to encourage riots in a job market. We don't have to. When talking about her being the same person from the economic organizations that the social stability is now not to be threatened and not to increase the minimum wage more than 3◯3.5%. At the same time last year, when wages were raised by 2.8% because the social stability could not be threatened, it would require more inflation, and the situation would be inverted. Afterwards, there were a lot of special relationships and others who had much higher elevations, so I don't talk about how employers in companies and executives in companies have a gigantian salary. But in history, inflation is minimal, with no effect on inflation. But now when the worst are in society, doing the most dirty work and the most difficult work, and actually maintaining society, they ask for a fair raise in pay and say: No. It's a threat to stability. I read a very good and informative article in the Woman magazine yesterday because I have encouraged much peace in this community, where the government is looking to everybody in the community for long - term goals, to increase stability and peace in the community. There's been nothing to listen to, but there's a man who wrote an article that said we could shove this nation up the porridge on our Range Rover. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Secretary of finance to read this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for starting this discussion. Of course, it does not work out that minimum graph does not meet the primary target of improvement. Increased inequality, pay that cannot resist consumption criteria, increases in individual public pay groups, and super-employers are the factors that have been identified in some respects in the circumstances of the labor movement, so that the tone is heavy in town and the situation is therefore delicate. Of course, when we see what we can get from the money we buy, our job life and their organization points out that our power of money is most important, not just how many are. And the fact is, there was an increase in commercial power last year by 5%, it can be measured. Intensification is a matter of high - paying rates and productions and the buypower of stability. The message from the Sentencing Bank and the Money Policy Committee that appeared in the final interest statement is a very special story. Despite resolution of inflation, growth is maintained, and the main reason is uncertainty about the labour market. This is, of course, a paradox because because in this situation, growth reduction is a very important step in which jobs and homes are greatly improved. The committee goes further, suggesting that the parties'responsibilities are so great that even if they are so high that they are threatened by prices, they may need to be restored to growth. Of course, there is a need to reach the basis for reconciliation, and growth is a huge tiara. The rest of the state funds, the corrections and continued tax declines, and the complete policy of housing solutions are and become important inputs into improved quality of life and increased scope for a reasonable level of pay. A respectable president. The primary goal must be an increase in the level of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u75	President. I appreciate this discussion. I wondered, " Why are we always in the next decade discussing the same things? ' Why is it that in this society there are still people with great deficiency? And how is it that every time those who have the lowest wage call for increases in their crisis, they are the greatest threat to stability? How clever are those who spin around this reality, since we should always be in the exact same discussion in the decade after decade! What can we do to change that? This must call for a much deeper discussion of whether poverty can be eliminated. It's clear that there's no interest in breaking up in Iceland's poverty. There's no interest, there was a man in the budget bill of this government that was approved here for a New Year's Eve. I'm sorry. This saw a man crystal in the government's operation to create a feeling of injustice by creating a food tax system, by setting up here on arrivals, by narrowing the way in which people can age themselves or complete study for the student's test. Surely we can agree that poverty is a disgrace to our society. I wish that this will be a deep, serious operation to prevent poverty. [[The president calls.]] But I wish that the will is declared from the highest hand. Secretary of finance, if he agrees with me, that poverty is something that should not be tolerated here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u76	Madam President. We here discuss labour market salary and what is going to happen with the labour market when the labour market has submitted its requirements. Various towns seem to be shocked by the demands. V.E.G. The secretary of finance says that the agreement is reasonable. What does that mean? He also speaks of his dismissing that governments have intervened in some way that should be corrupted by treaties in the public market. I think this statement is very vivid that humans are not on the earth at the highest level. A government and no understanding of the situation. The reality is that people who have more than 200 far away. K. In the monthly hours of pay, there is no way that you can support yourself in any way. It is only the cold reality. If the government's intention and the organization of the economy is to continue this much pay period, those with the lowest wage have no chance of living unless they have a lot of social support or a lot of work, then we are in deep distress. I support these legitimate requirements now expressed - that people who are on this low ignominious wage increase it, even though it is estimated as high as - that wages are at least 300 you. K. Really, it's way too small. I just don't understand when men can step out here and talk like they're floating on a pink cloud when they're talking about people who have to live with these shameful terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u77	A respectable president. I have to admit that I feel that there's a lot of compromise for me. position of control somewhat peculiar. If people are here talking about the public in the country and its well - being, then how glad they must be that unemployment has been reduced! There must be an increase in professional activities. How glad we are that inflation is low! [[Up front.]] There must be an increase of about 5% in commercial power last year. Where else, in the countries we compare ourselves to, has this happened? [[Up front.]] And here we go. I hope it's because it's because it's come to the realization that it's such a big mouth. Secretary of finance can't resist. A respectable president. It was here day after day, so we talk about things the way they are, and asked for it by reason of reason. the possession of doctors. The person who spoke there in a very reasonable and responsible manner was the highest. Secretary of finance, as he has also done in this matter. Sadly, this does not mean that everything can be done for everyone at all times. There has been no government, and there will never be any government at all. Of course, the goal is to improve the benefits of those with the lowest wage, which is done with more factors than remuneration and, among other things, what I mentioned earlier. There's talk of the removal of a wealth tax. He was not taken away, it was his last government that set him on and he was temporary, he was let out. The tax is also said to be a tax increase. That's wrong. The sum-up tax changes dropped taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u78	At dinner?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u79	Then come and talk about health issues. How's that fall? A government stand in charge during the last term thought about discussing health matters? It is this government that has increased contributions to health care, no matter how it is drawn up, whether it is as a percentage of government spending or in direct financial contributions. The last health minister in the last government has repeatedly come up here and said that the medical services have been too close to health. [[The president calls.]] And it was not the last government to prioritize for health care, anyone who has access to a government account can look into it and prove it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u80	A respectable president. That's the wrong thing to say about what we can call the economic gambling in this country. The cards need to be jumped, and they need to be replaced. It cannot be done again that when treaties are available in the public market, the major institutions of the country, the government, the professionals, and the penalties will lay responsibility for the economic stability of those with the lowest salary. It doesn't work any more. Of course, it should be in a general labour market that treats the employees with the job, but now the current government has revealed the indiscriminate situation here that everyone is in the eye of it. We're told that 1% of the people owns 25% of everything, 10% owns half of all the property in this country. Half the people own less than 750. The company has to take on the responsibility of raising their lowest salary, and all of us must listen to it and demand - forgive me for saying it that way, we with a higher salary have to sit on and let this happen. The executives today must also not follow, as they did last. And they did more, while the general employee was given 2.8%, the managers increased their salary by 13%. This is just rude to the people of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u81	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion that's needed and good. One of my concerns is the suspicion that exists between the labour market partners and the government. We have seen how the insurance fees are not down as it should be, how governments draw their feet when it comes to important measures, such as a bloodbath, the birth reserve does not depend on payment, as the idea was originally, and therefore it does not work as it was thought. And both the ASI and the economic organizations have expressed dissatisfaction with their dealings with the government. I'd be worried if I was a minister of finance when two so different interests have the same story. I think it's very important to get to the top. A minister will split them up. I think there are many of us here who agree that the minimum wage in this country is way too low. The project must be hauling them up. People who go to the job market, suffer the cost, pay taxes, and duties, must obtain a decent salary that they can survive. It is strange when we have a system in which we will provide child support and interest to people who are out at work and should have enough to bite and burn. I agree with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, we who have a higher salary - many classes have been rewarded well, and we've seen an increase in power, that's a fact. The class should sit on top of it, and we should make it a priority for the lowest wage to be increased. I think the 300 thousand that have been mentioned in this relationship are not unrealistic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u82	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion that I really need. When it comes to collective agreements, you trust that the reason and responsibility of the party will lead to the maintenance of the recent success that has been achieved, the maintenance of the money boost, and the balance this has become because Iceland is, as shown by Ásmundur the son of Stefánsson at the autumn annual meeting, more equation than elsewhere. There is a need for more equations in Iceland than elsewhere because there is a small country, we are close to one another, and there is an even greater equation. These ideas have come to the highest level. The prime minister may consider it wise to use this time of raise, not a percentage increase, so those with less and more money than others do. Governments have then met the country's public in various ways, being in debt to the majority of households, now in preparation for the Supreme Court. Social and housing minister coordinated measures for housing needs for many groups. However, there is one thing that the labour market members share responsibility; they have introduced high-paying policy in companies owned by the pension fund. There they have the same responsibility, both for the supersized rulers, i.e. The manager and middle manager, who have really increased as shown. I think it is absolutely necessary in these collective contracts that the workers of the labour market wind from this to a collective contract because the inequities they have created are the cause of society's underlying dissatisfaction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u83	President. It is clear that this discussion will not change anything, unfortunately. I must say, I find it strange when the members of the greater part come into a pit and say that you don't celebrate what you've done well. That's wrong. Of course, one rejoices that unemployment, of course. This presentation may seem strange to me when talking about the fact that it is a time of agitation. It's hard times, it's hard work. And we all know that here we are in exactly the same discussion that has happened over and over again, as I said earlier. What I think is the most odd thing about the senator's debate of the greater part, perhaps especially at the right time. paritaprevir Guðlaugur, Þór of Þórðarson, the god of Thor, is at ease. A senator seems somehow forgetting about his last terms, I was using benecid not part of the greater part, that there was a collapse, and that the government was in the perks of the World Bank. Operations were then requested. I am convinced that although another government had been in power, it would have been necessary to take the exact same action. I agree, though, with the senator that there was too great a cut in the medical system, but we were here in times that we had never had to deal with before. We were here in a complete collapse. Now things look a little better, and I think it's time for those who are the worst, those of the lowest wage, to get out of their poverty hole.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u84	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister used quite a bit of his time here to review pay development in general at the public market and the general market. He has done so before, and it was not part of what I asked of him that I have explained my understanding of the views as the highest. The minister went over there. I, however, find it boring to the highest. A minister did not respond to what I asked about, which includes the actions involved in tax reforms, access to education and health care, and other measures by governments that would undoubtedly affect the general population in the country, how he saw to it that governments could use them to promote the environment of collective agreements. Governments may be primarily responsible for creating such an environment. V.E.G. A minister also said that he felt that it was important for him to be a force for continued stability. I can agree with that with the highest. Minister. But how do we define stability, and do we want to maintain stability that there is always a 93/4 - 10% group under the poverty limit? The situation is somewhat stable, and it is not a desirable stability, a respectable president, that there is a certain group like I went over earlier. Much or half of that group is rented, much of which is a single parent. When we know that this land is here, we must wonder, " How can I give it more just? ' During the last term, we saw at least the trend that there was a decline in income, but here there are still considerable discrepancies when it comes to property. The point may be that, and that's what I'm asking the highest. Minister to the highest. Prime Minister has said that it is necessary to improve the terms of low and intermediate groups. [[The president calls.]] I agree with that view. Prime Minister. I believe there are value in this society that enables us to do so. [[The president calls.]] What's the assessment? The minister of finance is in charge of that goal, and how will he work to that end?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u85	Madam President. This has been an interesting discussion, and I can agree with those who say it's important to maintain stability. It is the red thread in my messages here that today we have tremendous amounts of money to maintain low inflation, thus laying the groundwork for future economic growth. Here I feel that some people have talked like it's an independent, unique, and even a special problem of how inconsistency there is in this country. The situation is, however, that in Iceland almost all standards are equal at the most. By permission of the President: Contrary to what much of Iceland's left - eared people think they are, there's a huge population in Iceland on an international scale. It was Ásmundur Stefánsson a few months ago. [[Up front.]] This discussion implies that this is somehow completely different. It is also suggested that there can be a very large number of awards, especially in the less paid ones, without any impact on inflation or pay development by other groups. Even today, they are the same people who come up here and say, "The rest of us have to give in. ' If you have a payer, you have to give in. Those with a higher salary must not receive anything because we are only going to emphasize the increase in pay of the lowest. They're the same people who called me back a few weeks ago in a pontta day after day to make a deal with doctors who had a 50% raise in pay. They're the same people. Have you invented some sort of magic formula, which leads only to the less paid ones being paid and the rest of them being left behind? I'm simply going to leave it up to the workers of the labour market to figure out how the collective agreements will be resolved this time, but the message must follow from this chamber that people should bear in mind that men are going too hard to let us know where they end up, and a lot of anonymous increases tend to end up in in inflation, as the Sullabana noted right now. [[The president calls.]] And what will happen then? Then we'll have to go one more crash. In that way, there will be no increase in money. I'm not here today to protect permanent low wages from certain income groups. [[The president calls.]] I'm just pointing out that the reason why we can do better for everyone is that we will continue to create valuables in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u86	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a change in the laws on the equipment, the method of loyalty and security at work, No. 46/1980, with subsequent changes, and a change in the law on disabled people's affairs, No. 59/1992, with subsequent changes. The changes suggested in the bill are briefly aimed at ensuring the continuation of a work programme on the user-controlled personal assistance as well as increasing work protection in specific areas. The user-controlled personal study project, MPA as it has been called, has been conducted since 2011 on the basis of a provision for temporary No. IV by law No. 152/2010, change of law No. 59/1992 on the subjects of the disabled. It requires that special cooperation be carried out by the State, rural society, and the collective association of disabled persons through the introduction of user - controlled personal assistance. The objective of the project is to develop ways to take up the user - controlled personal assistance to disabled persons in a progressive and effective way. A special project manager was appointed to carry out this project, and her first assignment included laying down some frames that would be prepared and providing instructions and other materials needed for the project to reach its goal. Then, in the middle of 2012, the first MPA trials contracts were adopted. According to current regulations, the project was expected to be completed at the end of 2014 and given a bill that changed the law on disabled people's affairs in order to establish MPA as a service form. However, it is assessed by the task management board that there is not enough experience in the project to ensure that the MPA target will be fully accomplished if it is submitted by the bill now and that I am here to evaluate the project management. There is also a general reexamination of the laws on the affairs of disabled persons and the social services of the local community and I believe it is normal that the regulations for the user - controlled personal assistance should be made into revised legislation in this field. So with the bill, I suggest that the time of a provisional law, no. IV on disabled persons' issues will be extended so that a cooperative project on the user - controlled personal assistance will be extended about two years or until the end of 2016. Is it to the point that the time can be used until a bill associated with review of local community social services and legalized matters of disabled persons will be submitted to further develop a procedure for the user - controlled personal assistance, which makes it very important for me to believe that there is a problem when implementing a new service. The report discusses only how our cousins in the North countries have been involved in the introduction of user - controlled personal assistance. As an example, experiments with user - controlled personal assistance were started in Norway in 1990, followed by 10 years later, in 2000, as a legal service in that country. Changes were made in 2012, 12 years later, and such services were set up as special service options for disabled persons obliged by rural areas in Norway. In connection with the change in law on the issues of disabled persons proposed in the bill, and I have just considered in the bill and also assumed a change in the laws on the structure, loyalty, and safety of work areas. These changes are proposed to enhance flexibility in the work programme of employees who provide personal assistance on the basis of the cooperation of the project, which makes it more likely that the project will achieve its objectives. It has been noted, from the hand of the task management and the user service following the indication received by the Management Board, that the rules under the legislation on how to handle the work procedures, loyalty and security at work, at rest time, on holidays and on the maximum staff hours, can set out the job on the user-controlled personal assistance several limits. Therefore, the bill suggests that with an agreement between the labour market partners, it will be permitted to deviate from certain laws of the law on resttime and the night working staff who provide individual services on the basis of the application procedure on personal assistance. In this regard, such as in the case of NPA, the rules that apply to people in other parts of the North countries were viewed. The proposal to support the implementation of the user-controlled program may be the means by which the project is started and is the time of the change, based on the time frame set by the project in which it is stated in the bill to be completed at the end of 2016. It is important, however, to note that the rules of resttime, holidays, and maximum working hours set out in the laws on how to handle equipment, loyalty and security at work are minimal guidelines for specific protection for employees. Therefore, it is very important to be cautious and moderate in the handling of rules that may impair this protection, but it may be expected that in general this is not permitted unless such impairment can be justified in a grammatic way and the resulting legitimate objectives. In this light, in the bill it is assumed that the agreement between the labour market partners needs to be agreed to depart from the law's regulations so that there is a shorter rest period with the employees than the laws of the law allow, later on, they can expect a minimum of the corresponding rest time and the law allows. I also thought it was very important that the workforce should give a review of the agreement made by the labour market partners in this regard. In terms of other changes in the labour laws, the manner of loyalty and security at work in the bill, it is assumed that the direct work programme of the State will provide written instructions for employers at work, or its representative, should formally inform the Agency of the completion of the decision. This is suggested in order to improve efficiency in the work programme, with the aim of increasing security within the workplace. It is thus assumed that the work programme can apply more systematically than before to respond to the Agency's written instructions for improvement within the amount of time provided. In addition, it can be assumed that this will lead to economic management both for the employment workers and for the government's work management. In this regard, it can be assumed that the system will reduce the monitoring visits of the workforce at work, where employers or their representatives will be expected to inform the work programme of work reforms at work at the end of the job. The work programme can, in turn, evaluate, one of the information provided by the partner of the employer, whether further monitoring visits are needed at the workplace in relation to the Agency's directives for improvement in the workplace. A respectable president. For some time in the Ministry of Health, there have been new regulations on how to handle harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence at work. In order to ensure the correcting of this Regulation, the bill suggests that a minister is not only authorized to set the rules of action against harassment, as expected in local law, but also to be a minister allowed to set a regulations against sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence at work. When problems arise in creating a good and positive work environment for social and spiritual factors, my assessment is that there are a number of problems that may increase in individual discomforts and may even result in long-term health loss, loss of employment satisfaction, impaired production, and increased workers, but the above are generally negative for any workplace. Therefore, it is very important for me to have a controversial change in the law on the handling, loyalty and safety of the workplace. And in recent years, we have seen a growing number of issues related to these spiritual factors, such as those mentioned here, that are not directly linked to machines or machines that were not used to deal with at work protection laws in the past. It is very important in my opinion that Regulation reflects it, and of course it will be corrected. As mentioned in the bill, however, changes in laws on the issues of disabled persons and laws on the construction, loyalty and security of work areas are proposed to ensure the continuation of a work assignment on the user-controlled personal assistance as well as to improve work protection in certain areas. In 1st. The legislation on how to handle work areas, for example, shows that the law should seek to ensure a safe and healthy environment that is consistent with social and technological developments in society. So I think that the changes this bill allows for the law are an important factor in ensuring a safe and healthy work environment in the workplace, so I give high priority to the development of these changes. The same is true of the changes proposed in the bill on disabled people's issues as regards the cooperation of user-controlled tasks. In this regard, I think it is right to note that there is an assessment of the project management of the project that has not come up with such experience in the implementation of the project that its aims can be fully met by the end of 2014. It is also a fine reminder to review how the task management is planned. She's appointed two representatives of the United States Ministers, a representative of the Developmental Organization, a representative of the Quantum Coalition and three representatives of the European Union. At the same time, the task management decided to agree to the NPA Center's wishes for an officer on the meeting of the project management committee. During the work programme, she has met a large number of individuals, agents, and also had a very good cooperation with a number of people, such as users of the service provided on the basis of a project on personal assistance and staff in various field projects related to the project. I think I can agree with that view, and I do so that my suggestion on the bill, that the duration of the project will be extended to the end of 2016. For consultations with various members, see the bill on page 24. 6 how it has been handled, and mentioned here to the NAPA service, but for the protection factor, the labour market partners have, of course, been contacted on those terms. I'd like to end up saying, though it may not be necessary, that I believe the report is very useful and will go on to a number of factors that I haven't entered here that are very informing about the project. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the speech and are happy that the law is being changed so that the work programme will be more efficient. I am also happy that the words "sexual harassment, " sexual harassment, and" violence at work, " come into the law. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister, whose authority in the bill is authorized to issue a Regulation, is, in fact, not to say that it requires regulations. It must be important to have a check-up and frame on these matters under control. This is my first question to the minister. My second question points to the big case, NPA. Of course, it is shocking that this service has not just been established, but it can be understood that it takes time to find an arrangement that is good in the long run. But you must be careful that those who have or are motivated to enter that system have the means to do so. Since 2012, the number of contracts has increased, and this year it will increase to 61. This has been happening over the years, and the contracts will be 61 in 2016. But at the same time, it shows that it lacks funding to secure 61 people. So I'd like to ask the minister, no further increase in the contracts, and it's not guaranteed. Minister will provide funding for the project?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, live Ingadóttir for his counter-sponsored response. I understand it's legal, it's generally expressed in the legal text that the sentences of the Regulation are a warrant, but I think it's something that the committee can review, whether it should be a clearer law on the subject. As I also mentioned, there is a plan and it has been done for some time, and I believe it is very important that I be authorized to sign that Regulation. For NAPA, we would have, as I went through my speech, might have been able to tell us when we discussed this in our time on a welfare committee and should not be surprised that a minister would stand here and suggest to extend the experiment. As shown in the report, for example, the largest rural society in the country, Reykjavík, did not start offering full personal assistance until the beginning of 2013. Recently, a judgment came in the city of Reykjavík, which was just outside the city. I'm sorry the court has to go to court, but I believe that it is important to interpret courts, and especially if the case continues to go to the Supreme Court, but Reykjavíkurborg won the case, it is important to get a decision from the courts on how they interpret the requirements presented there. I can say yes, I will, of course, do what I can to ensure the budget for the NPA in 2016. We have funding for this year, it was guaranteed in the budget, and it will be my proposal that we will complete this experiment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u89	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. The objective of NPA is to give people the right to have the right to independent life. It's a pleasure to have 61 contracts, but it's quite known that there are a lot more people who want these contracts. It is very difficult for people to wait for two more years to accept such agreements. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question, is there any further possibility of increasing the rate of contracts? I restitution that funding must be assured to finance the agreements already determined in 2016, it is impossible for people to be unsure of the rights they have received today and that their lives may have changed since the year due to lack of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u90	A respectable president. Within the framework currently valid for 2014, the project management is reviewing what it feels is possible to do about the increase in contracts. The agreements have also been equally large, so that one contract might take all the extra money that has come in now for 2015, but it may also be that the project management would consider it better to make more contracts, so there are others who will enjoy the ministry. I trust the project management will continue to work as professional and professionally as it has. I'd also like to point out that the cost shift is about 20% and 80% of that's paid by the local community for this service. Thus, there is nothing that prevents the local community from offering more to the ministry, but I have received multiple indications, and I know that the Algilan financial committee has received a memo about the fact that there are a lot of factors involved in serving disabled people whose communities think they need more funding to do the work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u91	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A minister for her speech and an excellent overview of the changes here are being proposed to laws on equipment, method of loyalty, and security at work, as well as on the laws on the affairs of disabled persons. First, I want to say that I like the extra sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence in the workplace, and I think there's a lot of benefits, and there are some positive things in this bill, in my opinion, even though I've had a certain disappointments in extending the study project on NA but not in place. But well, it's still working, and I think in many ways it's being done very well and professionally, so that's a good thing, and I hope that we will increase our knowledge and ability to provide this service well into the future. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to what she came in only, i.e. that the local community pays 80% of the cost of user-controlled personal assistance, while the state fund pays 20%, whether it had ever been considered to turn it around, that the state's budget pays more than the share, and the rural community is less involved in this assistance. Your rural communities have different standards for who is being personally helped by the user. Some societies, if I know correctly, have made deals more than others. To lie at the local community, finance is at the company's house, making things difficult in the lives of disabled people, such as moving amongst fellows, they need to start from scratch and make a new deal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I would like to ask, "Have you come to the conclusion of changing this proportion? " [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. The short answer is no, it has not been considered. I could quite believe, however, that this proposal would be appreciated by various local authorities. We've been generally going over the transfer of the group because it has been suggested that a large part of the initiatives for the party come through an equation fund into the service area that was decided to install in the telecommunication. This was very clear on the financial convention of the European Union in the autumn of the fall months, where they pointed out that the income stocks that went to the countryside for translocation turned out to be considerably greater than they expected but, on the other hand, their expenses had increased even more. There are certain factors that I think are very important to review. We need to get the experience from this project for the next two years, and this, of course, needs to be part of how we can anticipate this for the future, and we'll work together with a local relationship. But there are also other factors that I believe need to be more aware of that may have been left behind. They turn to the trades of disabled people, where we should place them, and take them in the best possible way. I also have a lot of concern about the housing of disabled people, and I feel that I share it with social rulers, and that's where we're talking about a considerable amount of money. I think the secretary of the Union talked about a billion a year to meet that. I'm still going to find out exactly what he's going to do with those numbers, but we've been working together to map them. This is what I have found so wonderful to learn about this class, the affairs of disabled people, the variety of people with many needs, and we need to try to meet them all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u93	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, this is indeed a whole litigation group, the affairs of disabled people, for disabled people are primarily people who share in the community as everyone else, and they should be our job to contribute to their community involvement. It is true that there are certain costs. Therefore, I feel that it is worth the opinion of whether we should change how the cost is spread between the state and the country society, with the idea of equalizing the status of the people by where they live so that everyone will sit at the same table wherever they live and have equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. I think me and what. A senator would agree on the importance of making sure that people, regardless of where they live, live in a large or small community society, have the same opportunity to enjoy themselves and live a full, independent, meaningful life. It's part of the process we're in right now, going over the experience of translocation. I'd also like to mention one of the things I've heard about my meetings with societal and local managers. Humans have pondered the experience of the definition of service territory. One man put it to me that the experience was more important, so the group of paintings had been brought to social directors rather than to local authorities. I think it's something we really need to consider, because in my opinion it's very important for elected agents to experience it, so it's their group. So there are big projects ahead, and NPA is an important part of that. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think it's very important for the Generals to agree to extend the test project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u95	President. I'm most proving to be a little more impatient than what. A senator who spoke before me. If I understand this correctly, the trial project is being extended for two years, but according to the original agreement on this great project, NA was to be approved before the year. There's a lot of difference between whether this is legalized or whether this experiment is extended. I don't expect anyone to accept this, but it's just that it can't be brought into the law. The report says that the project management or some feel that more time is needed and that one and another need to be examined. I'd like to ask the minister: "On what coast? What are the great barriers to simply bringing it into law? Now I know the highest. Minister reorganized the project management and such. Could all of that have been delayed? Why, then, is it necessary to set matters straight for two years?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u96	A respectable president. I think I can freely say no. The changes I made in the management of the project are not the reason why I feel that it is right to agree with the Commission's proposal to extend this particular project for two years. Especially did I look to the new chairman of my work to choose an employee who has worked with and prepared the work of the project since she went to work, and in fact, nothing needed to be updated about the work of the case. Other changes to the project management I haven't suggested. I went through it in my speech, who will sit there. What I also pointed out was that if we looked to the experience of other nations, it would simply have taken a long time. I hope we don't have to look for as long as the Norwegians did about the induction. It is evident that a local company that is the most proud of us, Reykjavíkurburg, did not make up their first contracts until the beginning of 2013. As I passed through, there is a set of regulations here that focus on NPA's work hours, which are tips that have come from users and employees to the project. It also reflects what humans have done in other parts of the North. We simply need more experience from the project so that there will also be a part of the overall review of the social services and laws on the affairs of disabled persons who are in progress. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson leads them to work, and I understand it's going very well. It has come at the time when individual laws and much of the discussion will begin to take sides, i.e. Is it not proper to have even one social service system that falls upon disabled people's subjects? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u97	A respectable president. No, I hope this doesn't take as long as it takes in the North countries, so I hope we can pick something up from the database that must be on this subject. That's what it says here, and it was shown in the highest case. Minister, an estimated 61 contracts are being made this year. Now I ask: Do I have any clues, or is there any knowledge that if this was being offered to all those who would ever know how many contracts there were? Is it talking about half the demand, or does it go far up to meet that demand? It's just for learning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u98	A respectable president. I don't have that information. It's hard to tell, because the communities did it differently. Some advertised the possibility of having NPA service while others chose those they thought would benefit from such experiments. So I can't tell you exactly what you can expect this to be. There has also been a considerable debate over this within the work programme, how best to make a frame of who benefit mainly from the MPA service. This is natural, as does the term for personal assistance. So I come back to the question asked by the senator there are a variety of practitioners that men have been working on. [[The president calls.]] I just mentioned, for example, that there were disagreements about the wire transfer that ended in court. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think will be an important guide for us in the legal process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u99	Mr. President. I just want to include in this discussion and discuss in particular the aspect of the user - controlled personal service that is presented in the bill. One thing I like about the bill is the regulations that address harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence in the workplace, but I agree with them. The head of the welfare committee, I believe, in effect, has to decide that this is a matter of decision and not only that it is authorized. I don't know if it takes anything beyond the staff laws in force, but it's a natural sensitive group we know that often it's hard to defend, so it's important to these clients, as mentioned here, to be assured of some sort of solution, and to make sure that there's some way to look for such a thing. I think it's very important that this is stuck in the Regulation, but not just that it's permitted by a minister. Here are the differences in the needs of people, and NPA is one of the ways to meet them. I believe that there are a number of options to continue, not just the MPA, but that was said to be one of the main means of serving those who are disabled. You've also heard of other things that may not work well, and there's an article in the News magazine that tells you that people who decide to accept this MPA service have to keep their own arms around the relevant person, e.g. In this way people have to have some skills, skills, human guardianship, and all kinds of reports. I remember hearing that at the NPA station when we went out there and got a presentation. This would be one of the factors that might be a restraining force when it comes to this service. This is in a prince's hand so that the person who asks for the user - controlled personal assistance ads himself and has their employees working against the fact that the rural communities themselves have done this service or have done so until now, apart from this experiment, may have nothing to say who it is as a service and when they come. It is likely that some efforts will be made to ensure that services are performed where needed, of course, but that help comes into the daily life that may have been the most important means of personal assistance. I have also wondered about this: What about those who do the work? If I'm an assistant to a disabled person and I'm with him in any situation, it can obviously be a big challenge. I think of this because we were discussing interpretation services, and they were discussing what they were doing, how many hours they needed, how they had to prepare, processing, and other activities. You might wonder, " What is involved in doing such a challenging job, helping someone in every situation? ' I wonder, now I don't know if it's a people thing, whether these people have any refuge somewhere or whether it's expected within the system, if we can say that they can get help with the puzzle as we say. It might be helpful, even if people are involved and they are not the same person they always treat, I'm not talking about in the case of day - to - day assistance. I just think it's a good thing that the bill is fixing it, making arrangements for the night service, or opening it up, one of the things that have come to the point of missing. But this is one of the things I could think of when I was reading the bill. As a matter of fact, I agree with the Minister that it pays to extend the test project. I think it's good because the service, as we've seen here, is given in very different ways. Maybe that's one of the things you need to harmonize with. I don't know exactly how to do it. I fell from the word in return because the time had become so small that little could have been answered, but I wanted to wonder if it was the highest. A minister knew the best of these groups and what could be done better in addition to what was presented here. I also remember that when we went on this visit that I mentioned, because I was talking about the staff here, it was pointed out that it was important to educate assistants who are doing this work. I'd like to ask you what the minister's opinion of it is and if there's anything she has to do. Here they were asking about the distribution of the Kingdom work about the land. You have heard that this is often a problem in many parts of the world where, for example, this is often a problem. Distances are long distances, and often they are not simple to meet someone who truly wants to accept such service or to purchase such services; they simply cannot be done at all times. Then, of course, we have a measure of inequities and injustice, and I think we face it in the more scattered parts of the world or we can do so. Of course, I assume that there is something I can do to resolve these issues. I was wondering how much this will cost my rural society, and I agree that it may be considered, because I'm that the Ministry of Economic Affairs did not seem to have investigated itself, but only the welfare department, which certainly consulted the local community relationship. But I say, as well as others, if negotiations become more and more people want to take advantage of the service, and considering what I said earlier on the distances and other other things, it is quite clear that there can be a great difference between local partners who perform this service. Some rural areas, on account of their own size, may be funded by a small amount of expenses, while rural society, which are not as large as transport, may be able to provide an equal amount of money to provide such services. I'm asking about this because I don't know if there's anything wrong with the balance fund. It would be good if the minister could answer that question and if he knew whether somewhere he could just not be given such service because of geographic conditions or such. I agree with the Minister on the terms of elected agents that they should own this matter. I know that most social directors and their representatives in the countryside have this case in their arms, and that may result in the failure of many elected agents or may not be sufficiently familiar with these matters. It is also in the country that the elected representatives are involved in part - time work, i.e. They do this with a different job, and there are different ways of getting involved. Of course, this case involves human rights and those employed in rural areas should make sure that they are respected and aware of whether situations like myself were being traced back earlier may arise in the rural areas. I've raised a few questions here, and I'm not going to keep this further in 1. ... but there are a lot of benefits in the bill, especially the rules of night assistance and sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u100	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Social Affairs Minister Eygló Harðardóttir for the bill. These words are spoken at the right time, and extending this assignment to 2016 is very important. We, who have known this project since its beginning in 2011, if I recall correctly, realize what kind of progress it was for those who have to use this service. In fact, it is to ensure the independent lives of those who need to be assisted by the NPA community, which is good and have been so helpful to many. You have not even imagined the lives of these people without the help and self - control they receive and, in fact, the quality of life they enjoy in this assignment. Therefore, it is of utmost importance and appreciation that the matter is brought to the council, and we, who are on the welfare committee, will, of course, address the matter in the next few days and weeks. Admittedly, there is a considerable amount of management on this project. It requires management, man - made, and so forth. So this may not really be the case for everyone, even for those who are committed to doing so, but it is possible to seek help with it. But how important it is to make sure that the disabled receive this service to the full! In fact, I agree with most of it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir told about the employees before. How important it is that qualified workers be drawn into the individual! These are delicate jobs, and even we need to examine how we can educate people in order to deal with the challenges they need to take care of. It's also a big project for the rurals. When cases of the disabled were transferred to the rural community, the smallest community involved in the matter of being about 8 of yours. Citizens, and it has been observed that if the contracts are many, the smallest communities can have problems. We need to be careful that our rural financial resources will be involved in the work and will ensure the progress of the agreements, which are increasing. It may be contrary to say that this is good, but it is important, of course, that all those in need of such contracts will have such agreements, but we certainly hope that they will always be as few as possible. I only want to close this brief speech on these matters, as I express my joy that this assignment is being made to the council, to mention a few things about which Guðjón Goddjörg Sigurðsson, chairman of the MND League, wrote about. He mentioned some points, with the permission of a president, which he thought we needed to keep in mind when we consider this assignment, i.e. to: the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. Advise people who do most or all they need to help one person. Create a collective contract covering this job, e.g. sleeping nights - Which is also part of the escorts and assistants who care for disabled people. - --use the laws and regulations that force the rural communities to divide the assistance as they do today. Make it possible for rural society to care for extracurricular activities. - It's something we need to look at, too, and we need to cooperate with our communities. These are some good ideas expressed by Sigurðsson, and very important points that we need to keep in mind in this work. He also comes to that point as a dog. A senator spoke of earlier, that some people go to basic studies as assistants, and they have to be filtered on as many people who are incompetent to care for such delicate tasks as this. There he comes to what was spoken of earlier, that we need to choose well - qualified, kind people to care for these duties. At the end of today's day, the mission is to ensure a good, independent life for the disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u101	V.E.G. President. A brief discussion on this subject. I'm here to celebrate the fact that it's done and agree with the main points of the bill. It's two chapters. One is about the equipment, the method of loyalty, and the safety at work, and this discusses the harassment, sexual harassment, and other factors to set up as regulations. That directive is in place and has been performed, but the legal authority has been lacking, so, of course, we support the resolution of the case. I'd like that at the highest. Minister for Regulation to proceed with the case. The welfare committee to consider this in context when considering the matter. The other part of the matter is the MPA aid used by user. The project was started in 2011, if I recall correctly, by law from 2010 and was to be revised in 2014. It was not achieved, and doing so does not in itself make any comment, even if the project needs to be extended. In the 3rd. will be discussed one of the factors listed above, which is the working period of the person who provides personal assistance to the user is hired by the individual in order to carry out the assignment. There are general rules for rest and so forth. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is not safe to consult with unions. I realize that there is a contract between the user and then with the unions, but it can be quite difficult for all who themselves have to deal with this because of the fact that not all of them are trained in the personnel treatments. So I just want to follow it as a boy. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson mentioned earlier and quoted him as Sigurðsson's Guðjóndeur. This is in the setting, how it is handled, and the help to negotiate the work of those who provide personal help to the user. It was controversial, but the result was at the time when the MPA centre began to be surfing at first, experimenting with how to keep this feature under control. The discussion on this subject at the time revealed that it was important that some form of social shape be on which people might be helped to create such agreements, perhaps holding their employees and such. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson noted that perhaps the rural communities could do this together in some way or in a part of users. But at least there's a little wide open in the case, and this is one of the things that have to go on developing on this experiment project. How can we live in a way that allows people to receive adequate help, guidance, and thus make sure that they have all the natural rights for the user - controlled personal assistance? I would like a minister to inform me if the unions have not been in on wording in this chapter. I can see that there's a security protocol that if there's a violation of regulations about how or what to do with the work programme, it's possible to get involved. There is reason to mention that since we are talking about a two-year delay in this test project, or further, that, at the same time, it means that there will be a two-year waiting period for a legal hearing to be passed on this matter. In recent years, we who have observed the affairs of disabled people know that there was a great deal of criticism, and, in my opinion, when the Party was to be transferred to the local community. You could say that a lot of things have been suspended, i.e. They began waiting for the rousing party to cross and then planned to see how it developed. If we postpone evaluating how it has been done and reviewing the entire rule, both the money move and the way the communities have managed to control the group, there is a danger of a new waiting. I'm calling it here because it's a group of paintings that have to go on developing. Used personally is new, but it is a development project; it needs to be in good cooperation with the users and those responsible for the ministry and, of course, the Ministry. This development work is to be used to create a law frame for this long term. What I think matters so much, and I couldn't hear better than the highest. The secretary underscores it, at any rate in the bill, is that it is decided to set a law frame around it. It's not a development project whether this is supposed to be a form for some time, and then we might drop it, that's not how I understand it. I share it with the highest. Minister, I see he's down here. We're going to make laws. What we're working on is what the law will be. What's the frame? What will be the setting up? It is what really matters, what the experience of this will be. Of course, it is, and we need it soon, and we have reports of the first experience in translocation of disabled persons. I know why. A welfare committee will hopefully meet with the European Union in March or April where the reports will be reviewed. Of course, it is of vital importance that we discern the nature of the situation together, so we can evaluate the experience. We can naturally give us a striking example of serving with disabled people, who are traveling in the capital area. That does not make it possible for us together, the council and the Ministry, to set up this setting, and to establish the minimum service, and to reconcile it in some way in order to ensure that rural communities or community settlements that are behind the seminaries provide adequate services. It will not be made up of any well - thought - out decisions, or as was often the case in the past, when the communities had various groups of subjects, such as the social network, they could virtually push their users away by having different services. I'm not saying that it's done here, far from here, but I think it's extremely important that we follow through on this service in all places. It also has to do with the user - controlled personal assistance, for as noted, the city of Reykjavík was rather late in the project, not started quite immediately, and I do not know better than the individual communities had actually adopted it yet. I don't like it because when they're developing this kind of project, I think these people need to come in and take in the people who want to use that service, want to try it, that they'll get the opportunity to do it. I was reading this yesterday, and there's one thing that caught my attention, which sometimes is what you read first about this sort of thing because there's a good overview of what's being changed, but that's the financial and economic costs. I have to admit, I don't fully understand the numbers there are. There are some sources that are expected to counteract the estimated cost, but then the state is expected to add 65 million, if I get that correctly, and then at the next year 80 to90 million. It would have been nice to hear from the highest. A minister of what it looks like and whether it is not entirely guaranteed that this will be financed and also whether it will not be absolutely certain to add a little something else, i.e. taking in more users, that we are not freezing until the next year. There are 61 of these deals, 51 of them in 2014, 10 more that are positive, and we need to be sure that these many individuals will have to be added and that this project will be developed. I've sometimes said in terms of disabled people's affairs that it is such that the rural communities, which is true of more people, such as e.g. The elderly - I had watched over the time when the computer - controlled personal assistance began that it was a project that could become a model for service to the elderly, where there was individual service and people could meet the needs of each person with similar contracts and agreements, and it is worth keeping in mind when doing this is done. At the same time, however, we are dealing with the way that humans handle services to disabled people, established ideas are still prominent, i.e. that it is easier to arrange for these people, the easier it is to serve them in that way. Of course, the opinion has been on the decline, but to make sure it doesn't fall, we have to put pressure on our rural communities to work on their homework and services to the person in their surroundings and at home, to ensure that their rural communities cannot save themselves, or to seek inexpensive solutions that impair the individual's self - esteem and independence. This issue is primarily about human rights, the rights of people in this community in order to share in it just as much as others do. As a result, this is not limited to disabled people, they may be at least reasons why humans need help. Then we should provide the assistance so that people can maintain dignity and live independently in the community with the same rights as others. I'm not gonna keep my speech longer, but I might be able to hear from the highest level. Ministers respond to my comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - fearing Hannesson before the talk and would like to begin by saying that this is a development project that we are going to consider, not to back up or to cancel, but the purpose of the development project is to create a better frame of NPA services, which is the purpose of the extension of this development project. I'd like to ask you what. A senator just at the expense and to hear his assessment of the fact that today the affairs of disabled persons have certainly been transferred to the rural communities, but the rural communities in Iceland vary in size and may be very different in the position to provide MPA services. I wanted to hear what I thought. A senator of how he feels about this expense change, i.e. that the local community carries 80% of the cost, but the state only 20%, and it's the equation fund that has the capital by contributions, how he imagines the idea that the state will get more in there, pays more than a smaller percentage, and thus equal the facilities for disabled people according to where they live.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u103	V.E.G. President. It is important to discuss this, this is one of the factors that should have come as a result of the evolution project or the experiment - how is this expense change, how is it justified, who is responsible for what? It's an equation fund mixed in, I think it's important, but the goal is that it's funded by the locals. It was also set out that if I remember correctly, it would be 8 thousand people who had to be behind each area, and in fact, the territory should handle the project well. Still, there are different ways in which people deal with this, and we have to admit that our rural society is an independent administrative level and has freedom to a certain extent. We need, then, to establish laws that require a specific basic service. I don't know if the ratio of 80/20 should go on at any time, whether it's final or not, that's exactly what we should have been looking at that, getting experience and evaluating. I think this is part of society's concern, that they can't handle it properly, it's too expensive. It may be that the government fund has to intervene. Many times when people are talking about numbers in this context and trying to merit individuals and the ministry they receive, I feel that the discussion is incredibly unfair. When we go to the expense of what we all get as individuals, what we've got out of the state system, and who's paid what, I'm afraid we'll see some pretty high numbers. This has also been called attention to the health system, the number of patients having medicines that cost millions each year. Fortunately, no one makes a comment. It is just a self - righteous part of trying to ensure life for the individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u104	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, I think it's very important that the review of the NPA project has been made, the cost factor and how it is divided between state and rural society. It must be our goal to make this possible that our ministry will become as a most reliable foundation. There's something else I'd like to ask you. A senator in. There are a number of contracts planned this year and only in the meantime during the extension of the development project and the money to which it is planned. Counts 'em out. A senator's having enough contracts, or do we need to add more funding so that treaties that have already been made can be handled successfully and that they can increase the number of those who can take advantage of this service arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u105	V.E.G. President. To continue with my earlier discussions about rural society, I personally agree very well that my rural communities have this assignment. One thing I think is very important, when we're discussing the rights of those with disability, is that we need to learn how to view every population in the community in the same way, i.e. In terms of rights, human rights, and the possibility of owning and enjoying services, that it calls for moving in between parts of the country, except in absolutely exceptional circumstances if that is the case. We're not like men often talking about, that there are variations from this and the other, etc. Everyone needs some kind of service at some moment and in some way, and it's the local community to give it. This has also been a part of integrating the ministry, as I say, so as not to be seizing men for what they're asking for. With regard to the number of contracts, it was one of the challenges when this was started as a test project: Should everyone be in the house and have a chance of a contract? What about the youngest, the less mature, etc.? The conclusion was to keep it as open as possible, and it was actually open to get the experience from different contracts so that you could figure it out -- you did it, you did it well, how it works for the person, etc.? There was no default for such a start. As I came to my talk earlier, I would have liked to see more contracts to gain more experience and to use the length of time here extended to the project to ensure careful legislation when the law is passed at two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u106	A respectable president. I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity to answer some questions that have been addressed to me by the members of the council. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir asked who was the most useful NPA. I think former welfare minister, huh? paritaprevir In part, Guðbjartur Hannesson answered the question when he spoke of the NPA project's suggestion that it had been opening up for experience and thereafter to evaluate the best use of this service. We have seen examples of those who have a serious physical disability, those with developmental impairment, and even children who have accepted this service by parents. More information will likely be available in the case of the Committee directly from the Commission. I'd also like to agree with what I believe three senators came in, please. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðbjartur Hannesson, when they spoke of standards or quality, how to ensure the quality of the ministry. That's one of the things I've been very interested in since I took office and is the main reason why I decided to establish a so-called administrative committee to offer proposals for a new management agency on social services and child welfare. My experience when I talk to people who care for these important assignments and those sensitive individuals is that they feel that they are doing as well as they can, but they have nothing to compare with them. There are no defined criteria. We have a set of rules for child care, but when it comes to the social services and affairs of disabled people who have become a major painter, we do not seem to have them. For example, we see what was mentioned here and have been going on for the past few weeks, turning toward the travel services of disabled people in the capital area. It's like a lack of tools in the legislation. The guidelines are not defined adequately and how to deal with them. We have received indications from other services where we believe that Reykjavíkurburg has not fulfilled the law given by the Council. In fact, the Ministry is now working on and molding it with the services involved, how to ensure that the ministry is followed and the quality will be fully maintained. MPA is part of the variety of services that rural society performs to disabled people and other groups. We have grown so much longer as we look at quality goals in education, basic schools, high school, university, and nursery schools, where we publish a thick doll that we call academic records of the quality of education. We have a set of health care criteria and a very strong monitoring of health care. But when it comes to social services, we have not had a similar frame. It's a key step in developing this and sharpening it. There may be reasons why men have refused to take bigger steps. We discussed the subject that was earlier on the program here today that we had seen much of the so - called self - control of the rural society, that we were not allowed to interfere. However, we are setting very precise rules regarding other services provided by our communities. Why is it not true for our most vulnerable individuals to set clear rules about what their communities must and must not do? When I say this, I also give a lot of emphasis that we listen to the local government's voices, to the experiences of the great officials and employees who do this work so that we can do it as best we can. We simply have to move on. Indeed, the transfer of disabled people has made this happen repeatedly on our table at the Ministry of Health and elsewhere. Then I think I'll just agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson spoke of the United Nations Convention regarding the rights of disabled people. They're working on bringing him in. An internal minister includes a bill that handles certain factors and keeps them in place. The question that went into harmony with the unions - I'm glad to have the opportunity back to go through that matter. The bill involved these terms was worked in a informal working group in which ASI, SA, BSRB, BHM, the relationship and the Ministry of finance are represented, the members we call in the everyday contact of the labour market. I'll bet you I was worried about this when it came to my desk. I went on to ask for a special meeting with the representatives of this organization to hear for myself that this was something that people thought would be wise to do, especially in the light of what I believe is one of the things the committee needs to do very well. We were talking about, as mentioned in an article quoted earlier, and I think that was in the News magazine today or yesterday, the great demands of taking on the job of being a professional worker and holding on to the work of employees. These jobs are often carried out by young people, and they have little experience in being at the job market. It is also nearing the end of this ministry. Thus, both those who accept the ministry and those who render it need to be careful. Hence, it was added to the defence that the workforce must give the review of the agreement made to the labour market members and that the service would have to be linked to this experiment. I'd like to reiterate that it's the correct understanding that came up against it at the moment. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. We're going to legalize the PA, that's for sure. We want to do it well. We are now doing this great work. In recent years, there has been a tremendous number of developments. In many ways, I don't think the environment has reached the tail of this trend, and we're working as hard as we can. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson leads to a review of the law in order to become more consistent with this development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u107	V.E.G. President. First, I want to state that I am happy to see this new provision for temporary entry into the law and for the user - controlled personal assistance and the changes. I listened to what I heard. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson, who spoke of ensuring the community's involvement, that the rural communities could not escape the services of disabled people, and that may be the main question that arises in connection with the arrangements that come in here. The right to free choice of farms is to deal with everyone, but it has been difficult for disabled people to choose farms, for their communities may not have been able to support them in the right or in sufficient service. It has also been a great struggle for those who join this party to get them to work with them. I would like to ask if the Minister feels that this law is temporary in the weight of the rural communities with regard to this category, whether the communities will try to avoid it, or whether it will help disabled persons to choose a farm where they want to, and whether these things have been carefully followed properly by the rural communities, although I would not be willing to minimize the experience of rural society in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u108	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. What I said about a set of standards is based on the thought that I want people to know that they can do certain minimum standards, regardless of their residence, social services, child care, the affairs of disabled persons, the subjects of the elderly, in these delicate and large categories of subjects including their communities. with us. Then I'm not saying that some rural society will do no better, they'll have self-control to do better, but that people can go to this level of service at least, no matter where they decide to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u109	V.E.G. Mr President, thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Then I turn to the other elements of the bill, the change in work-place management laws, which talk about acts of harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence in the workplace, and I would like to ask them if they had any questions about it. In the past few months, especially young people have reported sexual harassment and harassment on the job and when they begin to seek their rights, e.g. to unions and others, it may take on even more effort at the workplace and not handle matters. It would be good if the minister could help me understand just how hard the surveillance will be when it comes to announcements of harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, or violence at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u110	A respectable president. It is natural to be clear that even though we're going to put in a regulation and get some relief from it, these issues would remain very complex, very difficult. These may be exactly the conditions that we face. A senator was describing a failure to handle matters or face the problem at work or his effect on performance at work. Work - control is very important. There has already been a request to make a recommendation, and when we come to the Committee, which I hope we have a chance, I assume the board is in place and the committee is able to review it. If the committee has some tips, we would like to hear them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u111	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a bill to correct a change in the laws on the administration, method of loyalty, and security at work, and the law on the affairs of disabled people. First, I want to say about the factor that makes it possible for us to be loyal and safe at work, that I feel that the addition to it is listed in Article 1. for acts of harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and physical violence in the workplace, are greatly beneficial and helpful in getting it into the law. However, I thought about what has been said in the discussion of Article 1. that it should be clearer, not only should a minister be allowed to state a Regulation, but it should be more clearly stated on the matter of Regulation. This is something I think that we who get the matter to us on a welfare committee should take a closer look. This is a good tip, and at least I take it to myself as a member of the committee, that this is something I'd rather look at. The bill also discusses changes in the rest period and the night hours of employees working at the MPA, i.e. operates under the control of the user personally. I just think it's nice, but I can't wait to see the reviews about this point, since because of the nature of these jobs, I'm sure I'd like to take a look at it and give some special leave of the work. Of course, this should be taken into account in accordance with local requirements, as soon as we create the flexibility of these tasks, which can be called a brand - new flea in our labour market. So we need to take a good look at this and ensure the rights of our employees but also create a setting that suits the users well. There's something I think the committee should look at, too. Then we come to a change in the law on the affairs of disabled persons, extending the research project on MPA about two years ago. I was initially a little disappointed that we were just extending the test project, for I'm a little impatient when it comes to their case and that's why I would like to have us just put this thing on the line right now. But I agree with the view that there are things that we can do better to make sure that the frame around the NFL is the best, and it is possible to reconcile that point. That's why I'm very happy to say the most. The minister that this is not an experimental project that we are going to blow off. Rather, it is extending the experiment project in order to improve the improvement. I would also like to agree with the words of those who have preceded me in the discussion on the importance of the responsibility of elected members of the county government and that they take responsibility for this matter, but that this is not only on the shoulders of social directors or officials who are doing this. Of course, this is a large political matter, i.e. what kind of compromise we have on how to protect disabled people as the best members of our community. There's something that I feel is about to be turned to elected local representatives who have gotten this group to themselves. They have to let their case take place and shape their vision and policy in these matters, but do not push the council of the government to figure out how to act and how to look. I'd also like to raise the question that as soon as workers have good employment and employment conditions, we should not lose sight of the fact that this is a staff in charge and is to work on the basis of the user, that as soon as we secure all the staff's rights, we must not go too far so that it will be the staff who are in charge of the user. Of course, there is a line dancing, but the goal is, of course, that disabled people who have personal help can themselves control their lives. It's just a prince's gesture that we must always bear in mind. In a matter of what. paritaprevir The former minister, Guðbjartur Hannesson, mentioned that at the beginning, who could apply for personal aid in the user - controlled field, i.e. that people with all types of impairment should be eligible to apply. Then I think it is extremely important that we consider how other countries have made sure that people with different limitations can take advantage of such services. That's why I think it's very important to be able to increase the number of contracts. This is only 55 contracts for 2013, as shown in a package leaflet with the bill, and 51 contracts for 2014, and 61 contracts are expected in 2015 and 2016. Therefore, I would have liked to see that the rate of the contracts could be increased, so that there would be just more experienced experience to build on the road and assess how the service is working, especially for people with varying degrees. So I find it a bit serious to consider the terms that the Ministry of finance uses in its review of the II bill with the bill that says, by permission of the president: However, the number of individuals expected to qualify for service would be 85 million short. K. In addition to 2016, the contracts need to be reduced. Such additional expenditures have not been anticipated in the long-term budget of the budget. These are a little strong or heavy words, I think, in the way this looks to the future because if there's not more money, they could just, I think, in the financial department's words, have to be said to have some contracts that have already come along. And it seems quite serious to me that while we have to go in the other direction and increase the rate of contracts, one way to have more to build on after two years when the experiment project is evaluated and then, on the other hand, there are a lot of people in the community who look forward to this arrangement in order to be more desirable in their lives and control the way it lives. That's why this is something we need to take seriously. Similarly, we also need to consider the salary of the staff, that is not the highest paid employee in our community. The hourly pay is just over 3,000 k. If I remember correctly, which is naturally extremely low. It's like the highest. A minister in his talk pointed out much of the young people working with NPA earlier. As a result, the staff has often become very rapid and people stay short. I think we need to think about the budget again so that the staff can be assured of a decent salary that stays at work and there I think the interests of the staff and the user will go together. That is why we need to examine the overall situation. Basically, it may be said that I just think it's the most excellent bill. There are some things to consider in what I think we need to consider on the committee, as I have considered. What we here at the General Assembly need to do is ensure enough money to enter the MPA. Although there are cases of disabled persons in my community, I feel that we should consider seriously whether the expense exchange is just as it is now, in which local communities pay 80% of the cost of contracts, while the state pays 20% and the country's SEC has a contribution. I think we should look to the experiences of other countries. I know that in some places, it has been a way of balanceing the situation between rural society and the local community paying some of the basic costs, for example, the first 20 hours that are given, but then the state comes in and pays the rest. Now, in a situation, we can say, it's because the user-controlled personal assistance is confined to the countryside, there's gonna be a set point for the person who has a very difficult place to move to another rural society, because then he needs to start from the start again to negotiate with the local community to get a service. There are, of course, a lot of differences between rural communities in the way they perform their services. This is one of the things I think we need to make a very thorough opinion now, in which the experiment project will be extended about two years, to balance the facilities of disabled people by their farms, by rural communities, and to allow disabled persons to move about and live where they want to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She received only financial reviews, and she was concerned that money for the future and through the experiment period had not been planned. When I have a bill in my hands, I always start reading financial research because I often find it very clear. I think it's a very important tip from the Ministry of finance that money has to be assumed so that the service will succeed and the purpose of this experiment to the end of 2016 will be fulfilled. I'm asking why. A senator whether she agrees, whether she has taken this as a threat or not. This is my opinion of supporting the project. V.E.G. The minister of social affairs and housing made it very clear earlier that there was a willingness to legalize the MPA, that will be done after this period of testing. That's why I'm happy and I hope to go. A senator does the same. Of course, we must learn well from experience. I wonder what. A senator knows why we have not been able to take into account the experiences of other northern nations and adapt to our community. What's the big difference? I know what you're doing. A senator's distinction between service in other parts of the North and here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u113	V.E.G. President. First of all, whether to view the claims of the Ministry of finance as a threat or support. I think it can be both, because, of course, we can let these experimental projects completely put on our flight by drawing the money into them so as never to become anything from them, never to be served in such a way that people can accept it or pick it up, and thus, in reality, the experiment will be doomed from the beginning. I don't know what to say. I'm afraid it's an underdevelopment, as it seems now, in spite of other good goals with the bill and the permanent promotion of it as a form of service. Regarding why we are not learning from other northern nations or considering their experience, it is difficult to answer, and perhaps there are many things in that country. I think one of them is our attitude as a nation toward disabled people and our community involvement with people with various kinds of impairments. There I think that we are a lot behind our neighbors, and we are still trapped in fate when people in need feel that we need to think about certain solutions when other countries are much longer in integrating things so that disabled people can share in society to the same extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u114	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned in his speech earlier that there are differences in service between rural members, not all rural areas with the same service, and therefore it may be difficult for a person who enjoys the MPA service to move. She made it clear that there was some 8 percent of the world's economy. I want to ask you why. A senator is not going to record this on the committee. I'm assuming a committee comes with representatives from the European Union and this could be improved by consultation and by some preconceived process in this respect. I'm asking why. A senator whether she will not take advantage of it. The cost falls on rural society, but hopefully the balance fund will match it between rural society that can have trouble fulfilling all of this. The question is, what is it? A senator will not use himself to go through these processes and encourage the work to help people move so that their services will not fall down just by moving between rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u115	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for this great tip for the job on the Committee. This is something that I will keep up with and ask in and try to make it possible for disabled people to move freely between rural society and each individual, not to invent the wheel when it moves, but to have some reference or procedure that can be carried out, although, of course, no one solution is available to all. That would likely help people to have a set of standards so that they know something about their rights or what they can expect when they move. In fact, comments to the bill show that a contract with the National Institute of Social Science has been completed on both financial and professional assessments of the user - controlled personal assistance. I think there's something that we need to look into and see what the tip is, what we need to baby-sit. I wouldn't be particularly surprised if the move between rural partners became one of the things that were going to happen there, and I'm sure there are other things. I think it's very important that we take a good look, not just the financial reviews, but the professional ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u116	President. I thank the senator for an interesting talk about many things. I think the senator's point that maybe it would be right to turn the ratios around, so the state pays 80% and the rural 20%, instead of being vice versa, very interesting. However, it is a continuation or the same pattern of thinking that I think that at the time it was talking about carrying services to disabled persons from a country to a community, local societies are weighed against the view that their communities are closer to people, and rural governments understand the needs of the people better than a big brother at the head place, so to speak. Which is more important than what's going on here. However, I find this very thought - provoking, and I ask the senator, since she is very well aware of these matters: How is this in the neighboring nations? Is this generally at the hands of the local community, or is it central to the government? Is there anything the senator can teach me?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u117	Hv. President. Yes, a group of disabled people were indeed transferred from state to rural society, and one of the reasons was that the rural governments were closer to the people who needed help. In some ways, that is correct. I agree with that. However, the presence can also create some problems, especially in very few communities, where one individual can seriously weigh on the financial books of society. This may even cause people to be afraid to look for the service they have a legal right. So, here's a bit of a hard line dance. I think that's a fact. Regarding what it's like in other countries, it's as far as I know pretty much, so it's all going around. I haven't looked at it lately, but as far as I know, the North countries have quite a different setting on how they're doing NPA and who's paying for it. I think, though, that in some places the community has begun to pay for many hours, and then it depends on how many hours each individual gets, the state pays the rest, but it's always the country society that has the foundation. I feel that because of our small size and small parts of some team members, it's something we're supposed to consider, if it would fit us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u118	President. I agree with what. A senator in this regard. I think I'm right about it, for example, children who are missing or who have problems, and things like that, but there are a lot of different services available to children by rural society. In some areas, the ministry is better, and in some places it is worse. You can see how this could happen. You keep wondering if it's like that and you're attached to your societies. Hv. A senator has said that people no longer have free moves, that they might be, no matter where they live. But if this is so that the main part is the responsibility of the company and then one from Reykjavík goes to Kopavog or from Akureyri to Kopaskers, I don't know what, what would it be like? There is a need for a new application, could it be possible that this person could not be assigned to the new community because the funds are limited, fewer treaties, that it would just not be available for him or for him?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u119	V.E.G. President. The very thing is that, as the situation is now, because the service is all or, to the most part, on the part of the community, a person who moves between rural society needs to negotiate his services completely again. That is why there may not be anything certain for a person living in Mosfellsville who has an NPA and then moves to the disaster ground to get a similar contract. At any rate, I know that if I needed a user - controlled personal help, I would think twice before giving up the freedom that NAPA gives a person to return to the standard service arrangements. Actually, the same is true of traditional service arrangements. For example, there are social services, such as household help, household cleaning, and other activities, that differ from rural members of which type is used to determine whether a person is entitled to that service. We're not just talking about this with NPA, maybe it's just that big dramatic difference. This problem exists right now between the local members of the community in the traditional Service Meeting. I think that should also give us a lot of thought, and I'm a bit of a problem that may have been the result of the party's transfer from state to country. Although he may have certain advantages, there are also complications that we do not have resolved to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u120	A respectable president. I wanted to talk to you about this bill here for 1st. and at first glance do not give up. I especially wanted to use my speaking time to discuss the personal use of user - controlled help. I can't ignore the fact that it is quite remarkable that it is now that this bill has created a better source for ministers to take measures against sexual harassment and sexual harassment and violence in the workplace. These statements with the bill produce are fine, and the changes in the regular work procedures of work sites led to the review of other factors, such as sexual harassment. It is as if I give the times a sign and maybe think about it, that it should first come to an end for a Regulation in this regard. I'd like to say, too, that I think 2. the bill is sensible and very improved, i.e. that the work programme no longer has to take special patrols in the workplace to make sure that they have responded to comments they have made on tours. Rather, it is simply the obligation of a professional to report to the work programme when reforming and always doing so. It is likely that both benefits, the work programme, and the surveillance provider, avoid unnecessary calls, have been relieved of job drivers'costs and discomforts in the unnecessary work site, but in the same way, the workaholics have been relieved to follow up, some of which have been used to monitor work-sponsored in this way. But the main subject of the bill and what I think is that there is good reason to spend a few words on the discussion, the user - controlled personal assistance, and other aspects of the service to disabled persons. You're quite right, as we have discussed in the discussion, and I think the Senate agrees that an important change has been made by law to make negotiations about the user-friendly assistance, but I also have an understanding of what is presented in the bill that more time is needed to fully evaluate the experimental projects that have been carried out. It should be noted that it took some time for the first trials to be made, and this, of course, is a complex solution, and it is very important that any experience is gained in the negotiations before leaving a bill that has general authority to be passed on to public personal assistance. Of course, the basic concept of the user - controlled personal assistance is to give people power over their lives. We all know that for decades services to disabled persons have been made, just as with elderly ones and with others who need help with daily needs are based on an established service, most of which were highly formal in the 20th century. The formality was partly a reaction to the need for this time being based on the rightness of the service of all, not one of the costs of charity, as it had been for centuries. However, the formula also called for a degree of inflexibility, and people were given limited counsel on their own lives. Breakfast at a particular time, lunch at a particular time, and service were in a way common to all, as did those who were disabled as well as with the elderly. The development of recent years has been winding down the formality in recognition of the right to self - control. In nursing homes now being built and built on new ideologies, for example It is no longer assumed that everyone will get up at the same time or be bound to such a setting, and it is only in recent decades that employees, e.g. As a result, nursing homes have stopped going to work in a strange way, much less discussing people's homes. For those with severe disability, this has been extremely complex and difficult. People who live at home need much service, and they have been able to do so because the ministry has been given on the basis of those who perform the ministry and often were random when services are being served, people may not even determine when they are going to sleep, when they wake up, how they will live otherwise. This has even been true, and some homes have become like stations because many different servants from different public institutions have come to care for assignments in their homes. Thus, the concept of the user - controlled personal assistance involves in a way a violation of the concept of the founding system that we have used to service to disabled people, and it is therefore testing a wide range of borders that we have used to, e.g. Other aspects of public service, the work programme, and the like. Of course, the concept of the user - controlled personal assistance involves a direct agreement between those needed for the ministry and those who provide it. This means again, if it means much that the user - controlled personal assistance, significant changes in the situation and the working environment of those who provide welfare services every day. This may also involve a measure of emotional distress for those in need of the ministry. For example, not everyone is given the pleasure of being employed, but this is the daily reality of those who have considerable user - controlled personal assistance, of course, people have to care for personnel. It's like running a small business because there are several employees and they need to be handled fully. The matter has since become even more entangled by the transfer of the litigation of the case from state to country. I'm still as convinced as I was when I was a social minister who took over the transfer of disabled members of the rural community that it was a reasonable step, of course, but the dangers are still ahead of them and will always be in a small country. The basic idea that disabled people can be served in a comparable way throughout the country includes high - risk distributions because the entire state is under control. As soon as there is a service area in a country that is not more populous than ours, there is a great coincidence, depending on the way disabled people live. Not only are people in a certain way able to control their living quarters but they are often simply able to become very strangely random, so that soon people with severe disability are born into remote wrinkles. We are familiar with such examples. Hence, the fundamental goal must be that the system is fully equal to everything. There are many things I think there is a need to consider in that context in view of experience. I think it's really important to go over it with the Icelandic company how we've been able to get the experience of moving and how to edit bait that may have been of these changes. I'd like to reiterate that it is extremely important for the user - controlled personal assistance to be available to as many people as well as to those with varying degrees to use personal assistance. For this to be possible, there must also be a degree of flexibility in how it is implemented, as it obviously is not possible for all who live with disability, for example, the way I described earlier. There is another setting that can also be made to agree on staff and management, even if the services are provided according to individual needs. Thus, it is not that each disabled person needs to become a professional professional at all, but it may become a common partnership so that the service remains personal. It matters. Then there are other events in which it is obvious that people want to do everything they want to do and that they must be open to them too. As I mentioned earlier, this includes another approach to public service. The nursing home staff and the staff of caring for disabled persons have grown accustomed to another kind of work environment, more established environments in which a person enjoying the ministry is not the same as he or she will be in a personal user - controlled program. This requires adjustment of everyone, a new work ethic, and a new thought. I think it is very important that we develop our community service in this way for the benefit and use of new attitudes and lay down the primary goal of self - control, and it takes something major to come if they are not to be the decision of the one who needs a welfare service to observe in what way they can get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u121	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. There may be two things I'd like to talk to the senator, and the first is what he just said, and maybe he cares about the role of a disabled person who decides to buy this service. The work programme needs to take out the person's home because all the requirements for him or her must be met as an employer and be assured of the position of the person to take care of him. I think that can be a good idea. A senator mentioned having a agreement on how to conduct a government or someone in charge of staff because I think this can be very difficult for each person, as the talk showed. A senator and we share that view. In fact, I think that it may be that some people hesitate simply to receive such help because the outside may be so complex. Second, I pondered over the sum, but I began to read the rules of one community organization about this service that was approved last spring. It aims to make payment every hour to a maximum of 2,943K. It's just like that. 85% of that amount should be due to the total pay paid by an assistant or 2,502 k. 5% or 147 k. these are for the cost of an assistant and the 10% or 294K. the external costs. Now the disabled person needs to pay off the 2,943K. All the expenses that come from paying, of course, you wonder: " Is this money that leads to a person's wanting and applying for these jobs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u122	A respectable president. This is a good question, for it is, of course, part of the concept of the user - controlled personal assistance that all funds for the business go to the relevant person. I remember seeing a business account with one person who had personal user - controlled assistance while I was a social minister, and seeing the various expense groups there caught my attention. Of course, it all falls under there. For example, in many cases there may be people who need considerable assistance and who may need physical effort to raise people, people may be spastic, or may otherwise harm those who do their ministry, etc. Thus, there are considerable costs and, of course, matters to distinguish correctly. It can be said that in the concept of the user - controlled personal assistance, there is not only a fractured organization but also, in a certain way, a private operation on a government service that once existed. As a result, the Kingdom saw insurance and other such things, and the Kingdom is not usually guaranteed because the State is so large that it merely lifts the loads of things to come, and so on. Of course, when these changes have to be made, there is a need to provide sufficient funds, which I think may be part of the problem and has caused some initial problems in the process. Of course, the cost of operating has been underestimated and various factors have long been involved in public service to disabled persons so that when the user - controlled personal assistance is picked up and all these things that have never been distinguished will actually have to be valued as unattainable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u123	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I'll agree with this. When we apply ourselves to people in our secular work and discussing them may be a number of obstacles, not everyone can do the job, which may mean that there is not a choice for very many. People are supposed to advertise themselves to an assistant, and they may not be able to do it because of their disability, and they may need to get to the person they might rather not want, just because nothing else is offered. They even wanted to prefer someone of the same sex rather than from the opposite sex, but they may not be available. But what I was also wondering when I reviewed these numbers is the difference between areas, i.e. that rural society should not pay any X money, but it is in their own jurisdiction that they pay for and that they have to appreciate what they have to pay for the ministry. Maybe that's what I'm worried about. There's an inequities in the system that may depend more on the local community position than on the individual need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u124	A respectable president. First of the second part of the question, I don't remember exactly how this is happening or how much of the community's self - esteem is in this regard. Of course, 80% of the cost comes through the equation system, so there must be some restrictions on the fact that rural communities may decide to pay in different ways between districts. You know, about the first episode of questions. The senator's right. He's right. What I find so appealing about the user - controlled personal assistance is exactly the fact that people who have to live with severe disability deserve more than simply have to trust someone with their basic needs that they just don't like and have been inclined to associate with. It is only human right to endure and to want to hire other people to care for their basic needs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u125	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to go on, since it was cleared up about the nomads who are as serious as they are and lying that they can't figure out better who's with you so much. This is a very personal work, and it is extremely important that it be fulfilled. I'd like to ask the senator how he feels the best way to fix the question and if he doesn't agree with me that much of this is positive. It is my wish that all those indiscriminates that have to be made law so that there's a real use service here will be realized. What I fear in a small way is taking factors in a whole - souled direction and changing to a different law is that, eventually, there will be a lot of streets in the ministry. I would like to ask if the senator agrees with me that such a course should be avoided. I would like to know if the senator has any suggestions for improvement and what it is that the welfare committee especially needs to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u126	A respectable president. It is just as the senator noted that there is great presence. You may not fully realize this until you have spoken to individuals, since you see that contact with the assistant has become so intimate that there is no other word. You will see how effective you can be, how much tools you can use to control the user - controlled personal assistance can be for people with severe disability who may need an institution to meet different people on different shifts 24 hours a day. Hence, it is of great importance that the setting is so that people can apply it and hire those whom they trust in the project, and it is not tied to people with some types of disability. People with developmental impairment should also have this choice. It may also have a problem with people, and it may be difficult to connect with them, but in such circumstances it can often be harder for the individual to play the professional role. That's when it comes to the ◯hybrid's solution that I'm a little sick for being thinking, too because it could be more economic. This would then be some kind of partnership that people could buy into, not just people with developmental impairment, for some people do not enjoy being employers. I've run a small business and I know a lot of people who have run a small business and have some harmful little interest in e.g. Book or staff records of various types. It may be that people are not interested in them, and then they can buy into some kind of union that handles employees, but the one who needs the service still talks from the employee and can say no to the employee or yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u127	President. I think it's an excellent solution. If I may ask, for an explanation: Is there a partnership or something like that? It's a Danish word. I totally agree. It's really not everyone's interest to be both an excel and a physical person, it's kind of different from people who are good at both. It is rare to find in one person. I think this is a great idea. I have to say, I'm glad we're still going to this phase. It is a joy if there are not many people, for it makes it easier to fix them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u128	A respectable president. Yes, I agree with the senator on that. Of course, it is important that we now really talk about continuing our assignment. I commend the government that this is an idea, even though they say that they have not already taken it into account in financial matters. It is suggested that the overall extent of contracts increase over the next two years and thus further experience with this project. The major danger in the matter is that people think that there will be money to drive money out, i.e. that there will be additional ability to make people run faster. Of course, there is a decision to be able to negotiate with an individual in a higher salary, that he is not entirely tied to the same rigid work schedule as he is, and thus releases the cost of calling a new person on duty, etc. There are economic possibilities in it, and that is why I also believe that this is a distinct way from rest time rules and such, but these are, of course, things that need to be taken care of, not to go too far with unions, and to ensure their service privileges. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u129	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason for a fine talk in which he came in my opinion to a number of important things that we need to keep in mind when discussing personal assistance and the circumstances surrounding it. What I would like to talk to the senator about and have a word with him is that some people, and even many people, are not interested in being involved in business and how much they are in the business of themselves. It is already true that people are caring for such projects, for example, the salary and pay - related fees needed to form private citizens, who are likely to be involved in some kind of profit. It is to my mind the great dangers of NAPA, if we create a setting where there will be an application for the private person to gain money from the county and thereby to take to heart some of the capitals that should be used in the service of the individual. But at the same time, we also have a partner in this business, like the MPA Center, which is the user's partner business where the coin goes into its own business. I'd like to hear a vision. A senator at this mattress. Should the State be supporting disabled persons in order to cooperate, for the money goes to the business rather than to pay off foreign profits?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u130	A respectable president. I think this is a good question, and my answer to it is, in fact, that if the user's personal help is working, I don't think the State should set a lot of conditions on how the person in the ministry needs the selection of the management plan. There are examples of an extremely successful individual business in this area where private workers are not taking advantage of otherwise, but just as people can be employed to do the work of the individual, there is a lack of commitment to accounting and a possible tax divorce or anything like that, which is not very expensive and full of service services, and in itself is no different from buying insurance for employees or anything like that. The MPA centre is an example of cohesion, and it is of course important that this umbrella idea is possible. If properly implemented, it should lead to the advantage of the ministry because overlaying the cost of construction should be reduced to a different level if it is divided in several ways. If there are several people who work with each other under one roof, the cost of remuneration, the cost of taxation, and all these components may be better distributed, and as a result, it is generally a more efficient solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer but would like to confirm that it is my opinion that it is very important to create this basis for the fact that a third person does not benefit from the system, regardless of how we organise it. There's something else I'd like to ask you. A member of the council took a step in his talk, the cost and cost of distribution between the State and the local community. I'd like to hear his point of view more clearly. Should the balance fund have a bigger role in sharing money out, it is now caring for 20% of the state's funds, or should this possibly be a larger percentage of the government's cost? I'd like to hear a vision. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u132	A respectable president. Now it is natural that 20% flow directly to the rural society and 80% go to the equation fund and divide out with the needs analysis. Of course, this is a rare ratio to the equation, and this is due to the enormous mismanagement of the cost, and it comes in a most random way to rural society, as I traced before my speech. I see unpleasant examples from various rural areas around the country of food for the service need and real wages. There's an unpleasant amount of inconsistencies between here and there. I think this is a thing that needs to be considered, whether this is an isolated example or if there are other examples of it. Of course, it is difficult to include more than 80% in the equation fund, of course, for all of this to come to an equal level, but it actually has some political balance of this and perhaps less content in the fact that the service is on the custody of the rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u133	President. I'd like to say something about this bill. Although I had, as far as I could in return to this day, would like to be legalized by this user - controlled service rather than extend the test project, this is a delightful bill from the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, who, though, comes with this proposal. Unfortunately, there is not much pleasant primes from the government, so it is to be welcomed by itself. There are stowaways on the bill, sometimes so that the use of the trip might call it, but there are also things that there is no need to get the hell out of there, but perhaps the opposite. It is thus said that if it should come into the law that it should be - a respectable president, I was completely confused about it, but I trusted a president to correct it later on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u134	Hv. A member of the body has a 15 - minute talk period, so his speech remains well behind him. I'll see if I can make some walking speed to set the clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u135	In other words, the law refers to acts of harassment and sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence at work. That's the best and I certainly have nothing to do with looking into, there's a nice sneaker on the bill. I also mention 2. where it is said that if the work programme makes comments, it should be written, and business and job drivers should then inform the Work Commission that they have made the improvements required by the Labour Board. This is also the best of matters. Section 3. in terms of compromising the normal work time and rest periods of employees who provide services based on the cooperation of this user-controlled project. It's understandable, I think, that this needs looking for. This service, the job it is then, to provide someone disabled personally, and it cannot be done entirely after the clock. It may test the strict rules of sleeping hours and working nights. I understand very well that there is a need to be a little more involved in these activities. On the other hand, I think it is extremely important that you also be careful so that your staff can't be handled. In this regard, you may also need to keep in mind what has been presented in the matter of the day. Early members of Congress, and that will be a fact, that many of the people working at it are exactly young people. With young people, they often do not know their rights, so they may be more likely to walk to that right. Although the work being done is noble - I don't know if it's right to use a word, Mr. President - that doesn't mean there's no danger of being on duty. So, as soon as I realize that this article needs to be set and taken care of, it is of utmost importance that the staff should know their rights in all things. In general, about the bill, this is an extremely important matter. It's hard for us to walk to the forest, and we can do whatever we want, so to speak, when we want to, to imagine what a change this must be. This can change the lives of those who need help. I'd like to mention, too, which some have done before me, this expression, that may now be a detail in all of this. But in the bill, as it happens, it says that a minister is permitted to set a regulation on this service. I would now like to agree with those who have said before me that this should rather be said in the way of the highest. Ministers must have regulations. I wanted to direct them to members of the welfare committee that they will make a change. There is no difference, then, that the minister's responsibility is to set up a principle on key issues that need to be taken care of, as it were. It has also been mentioned in the above - mentioned talks, and I think it's a matter of opinion, that is being extended an experimental project to improve the setting. V.E.G. Ministers have made it very clear earlier today that the plan is to bring this into law, as we had decided at the General Assembly. In fact, we had decided that it would happen sooner, not later than the end of 2014, and now it is delayed until 2016, but that is to be done. I wondered why, just to be taken away from the doubt. I agree that it needs to be prepared well, and there's nothing to be found, and it's better to know the matter well before the law is set. I wondered, though, why can't the law be passed and stated that it is not valid until January 1, 2017, or something like that, so that it has been completely nailed down, that this service is legalized, that this service is available to 2017; then the experiment is completed, and the disabled people have a legal right to receive this service that it does not have today. It can be applied under the merits of this test project. I'd rather have seen it. Or it may be said, to avoid always being on negative notes, that since this is not done that way, it may be viewed with a positive attitude in this regard so that it might work well, this experiment may be successful, and maybe end earlier, and then we might expect to have a bill earlier and be able to tie it up in a law in the middle of 2016. There can't be anything that forbids us to be on the move sooner than this. Others have mentioned before me what is stated in the copy of Article II, which is the review of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. It shows that there are 85 million missing, I think, so that the project can be financed in 2016. It's gonna put some fin on me with that. V.E.G. One minister says that she will seek this money, but it would be a pleasure if she could do it sooner than later and have it confirmed and told it here at the council when it becomes possible that this money is available. It's a fact that there's a lot of things in the Ministry. A minister who gives you a measure of anxiety that she always manages to collect the money you would think a social minister would like. We see that the unemployment period was reduced by six months just so suddenly, by 11 days' notice or something, and quite clear that the government's priorities are not in social matters, I think we can all agree that it's not. Therefore, it would be a pleasure if the minister could first confirm that this 85 million will definitely be obtained next year so that 61 treaties will be made as planned. A respectable president. I don't think I have any more words for this time and I've finished speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She ended up worrying about how to finance in 2016 in this cooperative contract. I'll see in the financial bill that 50 million have been paid. K. contributions to this project in 2011, 100 million. K. In 2012 and at last in 150 million. K. In 2013, but on budgets in 2014, sources for the project were canceled, so that only the collections of budgets were left in 2011 and 2013. It is only a trust fund, which has so far paid 80% of the cost of a NAPA contract to 20% of the financial share of the state funds. In view of this, I would like to ask, since the project was not continued to be financed for 2014, whether there is good reason to be concerned about the funding of this part by 2016, even though it is at the top of its budget. Social Ministers have expressed the willingness to do so, whether this will cause anxiety and fear of those to enjoy the ministry, as well as of local rulers, how the State will fulfill its share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u137	President. Yes, I'll put it this way, Mr. Honorable President, that I'm thinking about it. I surely trust the Minister and her willingness to raise the money she needs so that all of this will stand, but unfortunately, I feel that the cases have shown and still show that the government, and there are things to say about it, is not very social. I don't think so. [[Top of the line: is right control.]] What? It's not very social, but it does all kinds of things. That's why I said that if it was the best, it would be a pleasure. A minister would come in the next few days have provided this bill and could - or represented by the Ministry on Committees - confirm that the government was going to give it 85 million. K. which is said to be missing here so that the total number of treaties will be the same in 2016 as expected in 2015. That'd be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have also wondered when I have been watching the discussion now how to guarantee employees a decent salary that would be involved in working with the users of this service and working on this project. Based on the information presented earlier in the discussion that a certain community is paying less than 3,000 k. For an hour and because it should be paid outside the pay, I fear it may be difficult, if the sum won't be higher than this, to get people to do this difficult job that it certainly is. In fact, it is a highly specialized and delicate work, and it is of great importance that people choose to do this good work, but it is also paid for it, given the responsibilities involved in such work. I'd like to hear a little thought. A senator on that subject. And also regarding the cost exchange between state and rural society. Since this move, many of the rural communities have borne themselves very badly and have concluded that there was not enough money left to follow. Counts 'em out. A senator would have to record it, if this becomes a law that one would hope for after this experiment, to revise all of this in this context?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u139	A respectable president. It can truly be said that these are not the greatest wages available for those activities. That's for sure. Caring has not been very well paid in this country, and this does not seem to improve. Still, I don't want to fall into the process of saying that it's all impossible because we're low, that's low, and that's low, because it's because I think there's so much progress in how society's going to treat disabled people that we need first and last to look at it, but the pay is definitely not high. Early today, it was observed that young people who engage in such activities may be mostly young. It's because of how low your salary is. It is a bit foolish, a respectable president, to use such reasoning, but the other is the fact that people who want to do this sort of work are often ready to do it because the nature of the job and the people who accept it are so that they can find satisfaction in their work and make friends with the person they are helping, helping, and so on. Of course, there is no argument, a respected president, for paying low wages, but that may be because of the other things you can hope that some will earn it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and a good introduction to a very good discussion of something important. Two things come to my mind after a talk. A senator I'd like to ask her a little bit more about. On the one hand, I think it's a very nice dot by a dog. (b) Why is it vital that we do what is right in God's eyes? ... thata minister is permitted to set Regulation. I agree with that. A member of the council might be better aware that it is clear that a minister has a Regulation, even though it is undoubtedly the spirit behind the article that it is clear, and I would like to agree with it. Senator. I also wondered when it comes to implementing that rule. A senator cannot agree that it is important to consult, not only with a labour agency, but also with users, especially in the preparation of this Regulation. The other thing I want to ask you is why. A senator in the middle, and I may better find that in my later counter, it's about the financing. I like to celebrate. A senator assumes this figure is 85 million. K. on the project, but as shown by the experiment project so far, the need is far greater than the project. The need for contracts is far greater than can be met. So I just want to hear what's wrong. A senator feels that way. We may find it easier to do so afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u141	A respectable president. We agree on that, me and what. A senator, that is supposed to be an ostensibly obligatory but not a warrant. I understood that the regulations were far off in the Ministry - the highest level. A minister will be able to correct it at the end of the discussion if that is nonsense to me - but to the highest degree. A minister would not have the authority to issue it because a minister cannot issue a law on what comes into his mind on the day, he must be authorized by law to set Regulation. Even if it is so that it is primarily looking for permission to set up a law that is more and less ready at her table, I feel that it is supposed to be there. Of course it must be, all I believe is that such regulations are in accordance with those who use the ministry. This experiment has been going on for a year or two or even more, for at least two years, and it must be used in the Regulation. I don't have that much more to say for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. The Senator's answer is, and I think I can just agree with it and add the encouragement to the committee's checking the word. But I have the same feeling. A senator for this job, I think it's a good consultation behind it. It is good to know that the work of the Regulation is far away. The second thing I would like to ask. A senator with regard to the sum and the number of contracts. I realize that we may be in the future mouse business, which we obviously are not at work. The bill expects the experiment to be extended. However, the implementation of the project has already been shown and advertised by treaties that it is a great demand. I'd like to hear what you think. A senator has the need and where we go or where we should go in a perfect world when it comes to this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u143	President. I'd love it if we were in the perfect world. We are not, but we sometimes seem to think something like that, me and the other. paritaprevir Proppé, because I asked a minister earlier today if anything was known about the demand. Now it is said to finance 61 contracts, and if everyone would get what they want, how many people are talking about? V.E.G. Minister said he didn't have that information. She said it was difficult to estimate because the communities that had started on this project had been different. In some places it would have been advertised. I suppose that's what. A senator is witnessing in the city of Reykjavík, where he knows far more than I do and that it revealed that there was far more than anyone could get. But in other rural areas it's been so that people have been checked out, if you don't mind me saying it. That's how I understood it. I think it must be very clear that this is just the first step. Maybe it's not for everyone. Maybe people get into it, and then they don't suit them and then get out of it again. I am now expecting that the scope will only increase, and then it is the financial authority to make sure that this service is cared for. I'm saying it just as it is, although you're not supposed to tap on such a serious matter, I now trust others better to get them money than those who are in charge now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u144	A respectable president. I believe this is a very important matter. This bill is about setting up a rules for harassment in the workplace, sexual harassment and violence in the workplace and then the MPA services. If approved, it will improve the quality of life for many. Although the committee needs to consider a few things further, I believe that, overall, it is a very good matter. I like everyone else to join and encourage. Senators on welfare committees to make a change to a team 1. stands for regulations to be placed instead of allowed. In fact, the evidence for this is presented in the article on this article. It discusses that in 2010 the government approved a series of possible measures to combat harassment in schools and workplaces and that 2011 a committee was appointed to work out proposals. The role of the Committee was to revise laws and regulations dealing with harassment at the workplace, including sexual harassment. At the same time, the Commission planned to discuss the contents of the European labour market Framework Convention on harassment and violence at work. The committee was made up of people who come from many places and know the facts, and the results have come. However, in order for the new Regulation, which has been developed on the basis of the results of this committee, to be valid, this will require improvement. It is vital, then, that this law is obligatory, not authorized, because of the importance of the matter. The importance of the matter is very clear in section V., by means of the bill. It shows that the Regulation is actually in place and that it is assumed to be in accordance with Article 1. track No. 10/2008, about the equal position and equal right of women and men, with one of the laws' aims to counteract sexual violence and harassment. In a 22nd degree. The same law highlights the obligation of employers as well as those of institutions and associates to take special measures to prevent staff, students, or clients from being sexually harassed at work, at an institution, in social, or in school. Depending on the gender of individuals and sexual harassment, it is contrary to principles in the equal treatment of men and women, it is true that such discrimination is defined and measures are available to the employee to feel he or she has been exposed to such offenses. I believe, more dignified President, that we all know about harassment at work, whether it is related to sexual harassment or otherwise. We know its negative effect. The report specifically discusses the negative effects of sexual harassment and health. They can be many, and those who endure often suffer from a great deal of spiritual stress and stress, which can lead to anxiety and depression, which can affect one's ability to work. This is very serious. This is especially because of the seriousness of the situation that is important. A well - arranged committee suggests that it is not only allowed to set a law on these matters but is mandatory. Today's News magazine has an interview with Brynja Bragadóttir. It is reported that it deals with workplace lonely on today's special training day. It says that according to foreign studies, executives usually start bullying at the workplace. I think it's a lot of information. It says that harassment at the workplace can take a long time before an employee who is about to give up or be left for a long time, and that is often the case. National research shows that 70% of the cases are officers who start bullying and other employees drawn into it, but most of the purpose is to get rid of an employee that the boss doesn't like, this way. Brynja Bragadóttir says, with permission of the President: ▪ Those who approach me tell the same story, that mobbing started with one manager, but then they grabbed off and became a multibask. There are already more people in the workplace who join in the harassment, resulting in the employee's being in a corner and having no choice but to resign, if not in the meantime. The people who turn to Brynja are building up after harassment, and in many cases they find it very difficult to get back work after the bullying. This magazine quotes her, with the permission of a president: It'll hurt your career to get involved. A negative reputation can follow the people in a small labour market, it is difficult to get references from an employer because at work mobbing is an excuse for the person's being the source of the problem, and third, it is difficult to explain the retirement of the former workplace. According to Icelandic workplace polls, 5% of workers are found to be victimized by harassment. Brynja speaks of how anyone, especially cool employees, can get into this situation, saying, "I'm better off than anyone else, because envy and insecurity make them feel better. " She says: The primary weapon of the harassment is education and preventive measures. The first step is to train, perhaps seeing things that can be done better at the workplace. When they have become aware, the motivation to change, e.g. makes the workplace more healthy. A respectable president. Many workplaces have written personnel policy and have tried to draw into it how to cope with harassment and build processes within the workplace, but it would be much better to obtain a good law on these matters. Now, although foreign studies show that in 70% of the cases, executives start bullying at the workplace, and I don't doubt that this also applies in the country, we also know that employees regularly place someone in the staff of harassment and officials beyond repair. Sadly, many adults who have been harassed for a long time are very involved. They know how to get away with the bullying, how to be always nice to a certain section of employees who would always carry them out in addition and pick up their account, and keep quiet while the mobs take place. It's dangerous. It is important to receive support by means of a good directive in this regard. A respectable president. Although most of the NPA projects have been referred to, which is also very important, I think it is equally important to set in law regarding harassment and violence, whether it is sexual or otherwise at work. I believe there is a key element in the obligation to set a Regulation with criteria to work on it. Today there's been talk of the NAPA service. Although this is a two-year test project in this country, there is years of experience. This is shown in a paper and comment on the bill. There is decades experience with user - controlled personal service and assistance elsewhere in the North countries, especially Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. Of course, this is being done differently in the countries. Since 1990 and then in 2000, in Sweden since 1992, and Denmark, experiments with user - controlled personal assistance were started from 1970 onward. Other northern nations can be consulted on experience, and we can learn from them. In our discussion today, people have wondered how we cannot take experience from other northern nations that are so great and that have been published. The bill shows, among other things, that in 2008, Sweden performed a cost-and-social analysis of the user - controlled personal assistance, and it showed that resources had increased the luxury of quality of life for disabled persons and their caregivers. Praktish information on a project must be available in Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. So we should approach them. However, as noted in our conversations today, our culture, the way we view service to those who are disabled, and the way we are used here, we need to do something. It may be difficult for us to break out of that tradition. A respectable president. In the 3rd. The bill speaks of an agreement between the labour market partners being allowed to deviate from the regulations of 53 and 56. on the rest period and the night hours of the employees who perform individual services on the basis of government cooperation, rural society and the overall association of disabled persons on the subject of personal assistance under temporary requirements, etc. I think it's important, and I hope it's okay. A welfare committee will consider very carefully the details of the staff, their ideals, and their occupational situation. In view of such traditional requirements for rest and night work, caution is needed. This is not a high-paying job. I think it is very important that employees who do this kind of work, in close contact with another person, have clear boundaries, and it is easy for them to set boundaries in their relationships and at work with individuals. As I said before, I think this bill is very important, and I hope it gets a good and fast course, but the problem is what's in it. A welfare committee and look forward to a return to 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I just want to hear a little bit of attitude. A senator with a number of contracts planned for the next two years, whether he thinks he may need to make more contracts to see how the service works for different disabilitys, whether more contracts are needed to be made so that experience can best overcome the disability that he or she sees how these contracts come to work so that experience will be used when law will be passed on this category. Also, there have been some concerns about when disabled persons with a contract are going to move into another rural society, that they need to start from scratch trying to get into such a contract if they decide to move. Whether it needs to be considered in the context of the fact that people are not being tied up with a set set set of values if they choose to move between partners and have a contract made in the rural society they live in and whether or not. A senator believes that it is something that must be easy for the individual but not that of the individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u146	Mr. President. The contracts are expected to be 61 years 2015 and 2016, there will be no increase between 2015 and 2016, with about ten per year. I don't know anything, I just have to say it earnestly to a question why. A senator that I don't know if this is an underestimate or whether it's necessary to increase the rate of contracts and expand some of the criteria used, but it is important to do so. The welfare committee reviews it at work with the bill. Of course, in terms of rural society and their status, we know that our rural society is in a different position to provide a good service, a cooperation among rural society, requiring a minimum of the population to carry out the task of caring for the disabled. We've talked about earlier today how important it is that the State cooperates with local societies to create specific processes that make it easier for people to move between their partners, that it is not so that a disabled person who enjoys this important service, that it needs to drop down or some waiting time or something like that will be in the situation, but there will be some particular procedure that will be appropriate for the community and the individual. So I believe it is important that when the European Union will appear to the committee, there will be a detailed review of the current situation. A senator asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It has also been shown in the discussion here regarding whether enough funds are continuing with this project, this experiment project, a cooperation project. There has been reports that the Ministry of finance is concerned about this, and I have also pointed to it, and we know that in cooperation with community groups in the case of the disabled, the local government has expressed concern that the group is not funded enough today. Counts 'em out. A senator has to take these matters into account on cost analysis so that we are not going off to do something that is not guarantee that enough funding will follow the project and that users of the service can be sure of this and that rural communities can also offer up the service without having to worry that it will be very difficult for them to do so? Of course, we know that rural society is very different, and maybe a few people who use such services in the local community, that can be a lot of money, I don't know if it's a problem, but it's different between parties according to their size to how they can handle it. It is surprising how many individuals might come to use such a service between rural members. Counts 'em out. A senator's use of an equation will cause him to bridge it just about, and it will be sufficiently guaranteed as it is today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u148	Mr. President. The financial and economic foundation of the bill, the official financial office does a fine report here, is precisely indicated that funding is needed in 2016, and then in the future plans for this service to be legalized. V.E.G. The minister of social and housing came in here today and was very determined to legalize this service, but it would take more time to get good experience in building legislation that would hold. That's why I'm assuming the highest. A minister is equally determined to set up a budget, both for the next year and for the future, so that he can work properly on this work, for it can, of course, be damaged by a poor budget. The Ministry of Economics points out this, which is good, and what. The welfare committee will then cooperate with the information in the area. Yes, it is true that the rural communities are certainly in a unique position to handle things, and I don't know any better than that they exist just in that equation, and I trust that it does, at the same time, at the same time. A welfare committee reviews it, a financial aspect of the matter, and a careful look at professional aspects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u149	A respectable president. Well, it's not my intention to extend this fine discussion, but it's really all you can do besides just go inside it. I am now obliged to do so and to be a member of the Council of Bjarts, where we have been deeply rested by user - controlled personal assistance and services to those who are disabled. Guðmundur Steing Steingrímsson, boy. Senator Bjarts'future, was one of the fighters for NPA and served as chairman of the program on user - controlled personal assistance in 2011-2013. It's also nice to guess that Freyja Haraldsdóttir, why. Of course, the deputy senator Bjartar is one of the main fighters for the project. And even though it was only in the name of Freyja, who is now no longer a member of the council, I feel that it is all possible for me to go into the discussion a little bit. This bill is, as has been heard during the discussion, a great cause of joy, I agree with it. I'm glad that it's done, and I wish it would be well paid and in good condition. Of course, the welfare committee in this regard. I agree with what was presented in the discussion earlier today as to minor comments, but these are not important. The key point is that the bill is introduced and that the issues identified with the test project are answered and resolved with Regulation etc. but also ensures that the project will continue. According to this, it is important to put enthusiasm in or at least let a little enthusiasm follow along with the bill from around the world. to the Committee and to remind you that this is an extension of a project adopted in 2010, although it has not been established until 2012. Here, to some extent, a complication I now recognize and only occurred in my former life as a unit leader. It was originally assumed that the test project would last in 2014 and that the project would then be estimating experience, but perhaps due to the length of time it took to establish the project is now extending the project by two years. Of course, it would have been the most fun to be at this point on the next step, but the extension and the bill are certainly a cause for rejoicing. I just want to talk about the user-controlled personal assistance, which I believe is basically a major revolution in human rights in Iceland. In most cases when it comes to services and services, I have been a great spokesmen of mixed routes, so great that I have sometimes been called by my companions at the time of my preparation, and I appreciate it. When it comes to services and assistance to the disabled, I am a great spokesman for offering us a mixed way, that the service servant has more than one option to choose. Although I am confident that the future, at least for a very large number, is the future, we also know that it is not all right and that it is important that we keep it in mind about the future that we do not have an experimental project that is a matter of yes or no, that all other services should be received, but that people can choose a service. Sometimes when we talk about human rights and equality in Iceland, I get the feeling that the struggle is that all people are right, that all people maintain the ability and situation they already have, and that they can almost be asked if things can be improved. I think it's very important in the discussion that we always talk about human rights, and not just because men don't lose their human rights, but that humans have an equal rights to human rights. We're very good, like the person standing here who can stand here on his own, and it's a matter of human rights that others who can't do it on their own have help to stand here like me. Use of personal assistance is a very important tool. I'm not going to repeat what's been good at what's happened. Early members of the discussion, I trust the discussion will go to the point. A welfare committee, but I would like to mention just a few important points that are important to bear in mind. First, I mention the skills of a local partner. We know that rural communities vary in size and strength and have very different abilities in their welfare systems. It is vital that we look to this outside of our ministry as well as to finance it. I can agree with that with what. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason, who countered that 80% of the funding is already coming through the equation and that it is difficult to go much farther than that. However, the ability of local communities can affect their guess, and it is important that we keep that in mind. One of the great joys of this excellent bill is that it explains the position of the employee. While we welcome the bill and the development to the user - controlled personal assistance, we must not forget that those who render the service, the employees, are not just employees but also individuals and are very important that we keep their rights. It is important that in the case of an employee and an employer, we are not only thinking about the rights of the individual but also about the employee, and this is probably a search for closer cooperation between two individuals. It is very important that the employee maintains his rights and that it is not only the user's right to choose an employee to whom he likes and operates accordingly, but also the employee's ability to enjoy himself. I have to agree with a few things. The members of the discussion are asking about the pay, the amount you've heard in this room, how you think, but I want to turn it into the future, and let me look forward to the future. I only mentioned it when I told you before. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir that I had learned my work at the local community that I had more demand for this service than the test project offered. It's our very strong emotion that has involved matters as well as, I think, among the disabled, that there's a great secret need in the system. Many disabled ones have received much service or assistance from their immediate family members, even from parents and some others, who have actually been outside the public service system. And, of course, the public system has escaped from trouble, as well as at the time of this. This is very important when we develop this service, which is important human rights service and should be open to all, that we enter into it with an open mind about potential costs, because I think we all realize that there is always a chance that the cost will be greater than expected. But as I told you before, this isn't just any service, it's about that we, as a community, come together to make sure that all members of the community get to enjoy themselves and share in the community as best we can. That is, I allow myself to state something more important than many others we rejoice in and which we put capitals in this room. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér for his speech and, like reminding me, of the human rights institution I think is very important. Certainly, we must not forget that kind of friendship when we are talking about the transfer and exchange of expenses between the State and the local community in this matter. Hv. A senator spoke of the reconstituted route and that there must be more ways to be than the user - controlled personal assistance, that what has been called a standard service must also be available, and I would like to say in the context that we also need to be guided by the rights of human rights. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because he has had some experience in rural politics, about a point that has been discussed here today, and put it into practice. For example, when the European Union meets with a member of the United States, a member of the European Commission is visiting her, i.e. whether some type of procedure or reference has to be made to use when people who are using user - controlled personal assistance are moving between partners. The person makes a deal with his community, and if he moves to another company, he needs to start from scratch and make a new deal. I'd like to hear what a sight it is. It belongs to a senator. Does he agree that every time someone moves, we need to make some kind of project so that we do not need to invent the wheel? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u151	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the inquiry, the counter, and thank you for the urgency. I agree that the right of human rights is not only important when it comes to the user - controlled personal assistance but also in other ways, whatever they are and whether they are new or old. We may have special reason to consider the matter with the more traditional service that we maintain high human rights. The senator specifically asked me about my work ethic and methodology in the rural community. I have to agree with that. A senator, as I mentioned only in my speech, that we know that the level of community involvement is very variable, and it differs in size and with a strong welfare system. How important it is that we have a firm stand for such a service, especially when we apply it in our own life! It's a little difficult for me, old management officer, to recommend that the Allied put down the rigid rule because I know that it's a strong desire for the locals to have a part in that work. But I'd like to get it straight. the welfare committee to do this when she has a conversation with the European Union to press on to establish a set set set of basic rules, consistent, and that it is considered specifically on the transfer of individuals between rural society. Of course, this calls for similar rules about how people get into the system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u152	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers from what happened. Senator. Surely, the senator's point is that the General of the Council is not to interrupt the local government, which, of course, has been assigned to care for the affairs of disabled people. But I think it's really important that we have this conversation and work it out as a team. It would be highly contrary to the spirit of all the ideologies of the user - controlled personal assistance if it was accidentally written into it from an eight - part source that makes it impossible for a person to move in the way that he chooses to do, whether he is to go to school or to work or to do something else that people want to do in life. In this regard, I'd like to ask why. In fact, a senator - he admitted that it might be difficult for the state to get more involved in the cost than it already does - whether he agrees with me on any subject that we should at all consider whether we should have the funding on these matters in any other way, that the local community will first pay certain criteria, say 20 hours, each week on the user-controlled personal assistance and the state will pay for it, whether it is one more time or 60 or what it is now. I'm asking why. A senator agrees with me that this is something we should consider to get these matters straight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u153	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists the question. I can agree with that with what. A senator I believe is of great importance to us that we respect our communities and their independence. Still, I think it's important, and then in a conversation with the European Union society, that we make sure that it's as much interconnected and as equal as an offer and that the level of the service is equal in all rural society. When I mentioned the cost-change between state and rural society, I was, in fact, completely open to exports on those means. I think the main thing is that we can secure the ministry - and now I may again speak out for the experiment and into the future - and get as good as I can hold on to a real need. It may well be, as I and others have suspected, that the need is so great that it may cost a lot of injections, and I don't think it would be abnormal to think that it could be a temporary job of the state to bring in a particularly handsome place, but it may be a bigger future mouse. I think it's important, so to direct it to the Committee, not just to think about it, that it's like any other service that happens in the same queue after the crowns, but that we take special account of the court of human rights and are open to allow this matter to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u154	Mr. President. The existing bill suggests to introduce the implementation of Kingdom, rural, and global groups of disabled persons on personal assistance by two years, or until the end of 2016, while the implementation of the project began in mid 2011. I feel that, in view of the fact that we are taking steps in offering personal assistance to the user - controlled, just to review the history of that subject, and to show that it does not happen entirely on a day to offer disabled persons the important service, of course the future. We, like other countries around us, are supposed to work on it, and we've been doing it. The 2010 law, with a change in the law on the disabled, required that a special cooperation project be implemented between the state and team members, and the overall association of disabled persons for the induction of user - controlled personal assistance. The objective of the project is to develop ways to take up the user - controlled personal assistance to disabled persons in a progressive and effective way, with the objective of the services being organized on the basis of the user and under his job management as soon as it becomes a complete set of services. Temporaryly, professional and financial evaluation of the cooperation project is also expected to be carried out before the end of 2014. Now in 2015, we are here discussing this cooperation project, a research project, which will be extended about two years ago. We comment on a bill adopted in 2010 that shows that individuals who need personal assistance in daily life themselves have the kind of support they enjoy, where and how they are provided and by whom. The goal is that those who are disabled can enjoy independence in their lives as much as those who are disloyal. Furthermore, it is the first step toward implementing the user - controlled personal assistance as a principal form of service to disabled persons. I think it is very important that we continue on this journey, although we might have wanted us to go further, and now we are talking about the law being placed in charge that we have an obligation to offer up this user - controlled personal assistance. The 2010 Committee of Social Security Committee shows that the U.S. United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons is well supported by the user - controlled personal assistance and says, by permission of the President: The countries involved in this contract consistently recognize the right of all disabled people to live in the community and their right to have options just like others and to make effective and appropriate measures so that disabled persons may have this right and contribute to the full participation of them in society without separating. It also states in the relevant committee that personal assistance, including personal help, is being provided by the user. aimed at ensuring the right to independent living as they themselves can hire helpers and control their lives despite the need for assistance from others. I am deeply concerned about the funding of this project, and I hope to make the most of it. Social and housing minister is on course, i.e. that this project will provide sufficient funds, as it is, of course, the prerequisite for all of this to work. In 2010, a project administration was set up in which a number of people were involved in the preparation of this important project. As noted, there is years of experience with user - controlled personal assistance elsewhere in the North countries, and we have been living in this cooperation project since 2011. This bill suggests changes to legal requirements in the laws on the construction, method of loyalty, and safety of work areas. It suggests that a minister must be allowed to set the rules for action against harassment, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment and violence at work. I am very happy with the proposal to make adjustments in these matters. Time has long come, and we know that harassment and harassment are, unfortunately, in far too many places of work. When it comes to disabled individuals, they have a much weaker position toward such things and the need for us to raise up all laws, not just regulations, but legal arrangements that can now be set up to protect those who are weak against such things at work. I think it's very important that this is the law, not just the Regulation, to show the law's will in terms of the seriousness of this matter. Sadly, all too often we have heard examples of how disabled individuals get into such situations along with unsuited individuals, but of course, disabled individuals are much more sensitive to this fact. I mentioned money earlier, that I had a measure of concern about them and referred to my case so that I would not have been expected to be funded for this experiment in 2014 on their budgets. We're talking about a 61 contract in 2015 and in 2016 we're also going to be 61 contracts, which is certainly increasing from year one to year one, when they were 51, starting with 22 contracts in 2012, went in 2013 to 54, and certainly we're always stepping forward to the very good materials, although I believe we have to maintain our savings and secure funding for 2016, while the Ministry of finance assumes 82 million. K. lack to ensure the project in 2015. But there has been a good discussion on this urgent matter before the council, and I want to express my joy in the fact that this bill has been presented. I know it's the highest. Social and housing minister knows the subject very well. We were both on the Social Services Committee back then when these issues were discussed during the last term. I know it's the highest. A minister is happy to be able to carry out this urgent task as a minister and can work to legalize the case. to offer personal assistance to a user-controlled person. Of course, if I gather at the end of what I feel about the bill we need to remember that in the commission work, we need to ensure that the disabled are in the best position in the community. We also need to pay close attention to the fact that a person in the ministry is directing how it is granted but that no matter how good it is, workers will not be conducting and conducting the user's ministry, for it is important that disabled persons live their lives. This, of course, is part of making the individual the most independent of his or her actions and decisions. I also believe that it is important that we continue to contribute to the growth of contracts. The more treaties, the more contracts we have to negotiate, for, of course, disability differs greatly and different groups there, and there is a better analysis of when it comes to legalization. And we certainly need to secure the funding for the seminary. It has been observed in the discussion that since we started this journey, workers who have been doing this service do not have a good salary. We need to be alert to ensure that those who are, of course, responsible for a very important job will receive a decent salary. I also believe that we need to examine the cost exchange between state and rural society. We know that many of our rural communities have been concerned about not having received enough money by the media. Many rural groups may also feel that if these user - controlled personal assistance is added, they will not be able to handle the problem. We need to make sure that, depending on whether our rural society is strong or not, there is no difference and that the disabled can request a contract with their local community for such service or for such a national service. I also have concerns about what has also been in the discussion about people's ability to move in from country to country if they have had a contract with the local community and are moving, that there won't be anything complicated when they get a deal with a new rural society and at any cost of a waiting time or so on. We need to do this as smooth and smooth as possible so that we do not create any 8 - quarterly means for disabled persons in that regard and that there is a need for a place where they live in the country to take advantage of this service. Otherwise, I'm very pleased with the bill, and I know that it will be discussed in a welfare committee. In conclusion, I believe it is very important that the General Assembly legalize the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk on this important matter. This becomes evident when others point out that there is a great solid basis for the ideas involved in this matter. At the same time, there are a lot of questions that arise on the project and how this temporary project will depend on it. It has been observed in the highest range. A minister, and how vital that the process is only to prepare the legal process! There is bound to be a legislation on the persistence of NAPA services. That's an important requirement for me. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the situation today because he knows a lot about the country. We're both senators for the area of the country. The areas there are quite large, such as those in the West and in the northern part of the West, where there has been a very good service for people with disability over a long period of time. I want to hear what's going on. A senator on the issue of whether we have managed to provide both enough contracts and to ensure the quality. Hv. A senator identified it as one of the points that mattered much the rest of the process to ensure equal service, quality, and provide personnel for this service. However, I would like to ask about the management, i.e. help with staff service, how about that. A senator sees that we can solve it. It is important that this is done in some way so that each user does not depend on having an entire office but can receive advice and assistance to develop negotiations and negotiations... and to make sure that you do not have to spend a lot of work and energy on making these contracts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If I start with it as long as possible. A senator ended up thinking that it is very important that the user of the ministry can, in the simplest possible way, establish a contract between himself and the community. I believe they have to come to a secure court order and they don't have to, like, the case. A senator points out, having an office to implement such an agreement. Of course, whether disabled or not disabled, individuals are mistaken for going through some paperwork and all that comes with it. This is just one of the things to make sure that the individual is available and is as simple as possible and that the person is allowed to observe each step, what is going on, and what the contract is and how he can apply it so that he can make the most of his or her ministry. Hv. A member of the council also suggested that rural communities are not well equipped to provide for this type of service. Sadly, I am concerned that they are not in the same position as offering that service. Therefore, I believe that now it is necessary to examine how this agreement is conducted and see the difference between territory and rural society, whether you sit there at the same level, both users and rural society, so that there will be no conflict. I'm not gonna mention any names in this relationship, but I'm worried that there's an inconsistencies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u157	V.E.G. President. Now we're in the strange position that this group of paintings was transferred to the countryside. All of us want to acknowledge independence or equivalent to the administrative level, i.e. Companys and states are independent parties. In connection with various cases and in this regard, we do well to ask ourselves, " How normal is it for the State to direct the seminary? ' How much demands to be done, etc.? The discussion earlier showed that there was no unnaturality, similar to the whole law columns on elementary school and what requirements to meet, that there would be some action in connection with this sect as well. It may be imagined that the rural communities themselves do so, i.e. They set guiding rules or even approves that reach the rural communities by their common stand. I'd like to hear a little bit about it. A senator to see how in the real world we can observe the self - determination rights of our rural society while at the same time agreeing and ensuring an equal talk about the ministry. On the other hand, I know what to do. A senator has been active in a chicken struggle. In the 3rd. the bill is primarily a guide to dismiss the rules of collective agreements due to the uniqueness of the working staff, including when it comes to day - to - day service and other activities. I asked the highest. A minister earlier in the discussion, if this was being worked with the unions, and at least it has been mutual information in this regard, but I would like to hear a decision. A senator for these ideas. How can we be sure that this is not a set of general rules that will be involved in other jobs, as we guarantee both the right and the duties of these people without going to the right of the user to decide who works for them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u158	Mr. President. That's a good tip for a dog. Senator. How can we ensure the changes we will be if we enter the laws that ensure protection and rest time for those who pay? I believe that we have to do so in good relations with the unions so that we will not be exemplary and others will be doing it. I have a certain understanding that in some cases such specialized jobs must be tailored to the situation. That is true in this case. I believe we're supposed to get along with this rather than protect the rights of the people. It was noted earlier that the people who have been doing these jobs since the beginning of this test project in 2011 are in a total too low pay. We must look for ways to improve that quality. We must also ensure their rights in this regard. Regarding whether your community should oversee the implementation of this project and the contracts between consumer services and the community or if the government should do so, I think both of them can walk. There must be some agreement between state and rural society in that matter. We know that basic schools were moved to the rural communities many years ago, yet there is a close monitoring of the follow-up of the elementary schools on the part of the State. I can totally picture some sort of model, unless society wants to take it on its own. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u159	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in the law on the equipment, method of loyalty and security at work, No. 46/1980, and law on the affairs of disabled people, No. 59/1992, with subsequent changes. A respectable president. I would like to enter the discussion that has been very positive and informative on the issues that focus on the user - controlled personal help, and I would like to discuss this aspect of the bill. This is a change in the law presented in paragraphs 3 and 4. and faces this service. Section 4. It is about extending this vital cooperation work of the Kingdom, rural society, and the total organization of the disabled. This project was adopted by the 2010 law and started in 2011 to establish it in a law by the end of the year. The bill suggests that it will be extended in 2016. The report by the bill shows that it has been proposed to develop and organize it with needs and basis for the user so that the user can be his own master and foreman, while trying to coordinate the service so that it would become a complete difference between different services. The 2010 provisional regulations highlight financial and professional evaluations, as well as the development of the project. Then a project manager was assigned to follow this project and follow up and aim, as mentioned earlier, that it would be completed before the end of the New Year's Eve. V.E.G. In his earlier discussion, a minister introduced me to a full - time work group. Minister's in February 2014. The service group has the responsibility to review laws on the affairs of disabled people and local community services. It's like it sounds like a lot of work, but I want to say it here during the discussion that the job has gone really well. This group of people has a great knowledge of trade and, above all, has had good results. That's what's going to happen. Minister to extend the group's work and complete this mission. It's on that track. In connection with that work, I think it is very prudent to postpone the legalization of this evolutionary project, a user-controlled personal help. In effect, there are two factors that tell me that this is the course of wisdom. On the one hand, it is a global review of laws on the issues of disabled and social services and, on the other, the evaluation of the workgroup for user-controlled personal assistance that the economic and professional evaluations are not fully developed. Then you can also point out and note in the bill that the first contracts were not made until 2012, and that this service actually did not start, or the first contract in Reykjavíkborg, until 2013. So I think it's very wise to go as high as possible. The minister is going here to postpone this to ensure that there will be adequate experience in the project and a legal basis will be assured so that we can secure the user - controlled personal assistance as recommended. It's very important. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir recently finished his talk and mentioned a United Nations Convention. It can be said that he crystals the importance of the matter and the importance of the quality of life and the rightness of this service as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u160	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and for giving us insight into his approach to the case that I celebrate and consider very good and important, and actually the ideologies that this prisoner's assignment is a perfect example. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about two things, and it may not directly concern the user himself at the time of the service but much rather that end, we are to say, which we picture in an undefined future, when everyone is able to use the user - controlled personal assistance, all adult disabled persons who have the strong position to carry on the complex personal situations that it is indeed possible to use personal assistance. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator envisions or whether we have been discussed in this work how we prepare children with disability for later becoming users of personal help. It is often difficult to keep the bridge from being dependent on special instruction or special support within a class in mixing or in a special school, and often the problem is that children who suffer from disability are almost cut off from reality. I would like to ask the senator if he can see that there will be some sort of adjustment or training or, in fact, that they can later be users of this kind of service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u161	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svavardótti Svandís's Svavarsdóttir for a very interesting question. Like what? A candidate correctly made this difficult, because a user is actually the manager and manager of the ministry, and that is a new approach, but at the same time it is the aspect that ensures the quality of the ministry, can be said, because the user organizes it and is the foreman in the ministry. In that light, the question is of great interest. How important it is that children prepare for this ministry and how they can do so! But no, we haven't put it in particular. The staff I'm in got a presentation on the project, but I don't remember that it's been discussed so I'll quite admit that I haven't figured it out yet. But the question is very good, and I will consider it as a result, completely prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. As we have seen, this is an extremely complex interaction. I have a considerable background and experience from training a sign - language girl and working with users of such services, that is, what I know, but then you get into politics. How challenging it is to train children to make good use of this kind of professional service and to understand the professional products that can arise, as well as those in the field need to have a very powerful position to work in this interaction without taking control of the subject! It is very central in this discussion of power and powerlessness, i.e. Who has authority over his own fate in daily life, and who has a position to use it to power, or take power from the individual, or operate it in some way. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator about something else I don't see here, whether or not they've come up on the table. I can see that this is a plan for a training course for employees who work on user-controlled personal assistance. I tend to believe that those who are to care for such complicated and close service will be guided by professionalism, especially by moral solutions. So I would like to ask myself, " Do I have any perspective on how much this education needs to be so that I can be successful? ' This is very important for the dignity and self - respect of the one who enjoys the field ministry to be very clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u163	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's zeal for not only very interesting questions but also very important questions and privileges that we are facing in both the use and the services we are facing. There are a number of moral issues that arise. We in the group I am in, revising laws on the affairs of the disabled and social services, received an introduction to the work of a workgroup on the user - controlled personal assistance, so that we may not have gone as much depth into the program as the task force, but it was shown that there is a special emphasis on the training and education of those who are supposed to perform the ministry. Of course, this is a big matter and may reflect the position we are on with the task and the importance of putting our arms around it, while the goal of staging it in the law is to establish it. Of course, that is what we plan to do and how important it is to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u164	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson very much for coming into this discussion. Clearly, he has an enormously important and challenging task that is involved in uniting one law, if I understand correctly, both the affairs of disabled people and social services. It is an old dream that would be especially enjoyable to be fulfilled because we do not want to classify people by certain symptoms or disability. Rather, we try to create a universal law that guarantees justice for all citizens. This was a reference to postponing MPA decisions, i.e. extending the current probationary period, although it would be in a position to enter the new law as part of it. We'll give ourselves another two-year period. Does that mean that there is a time for it? A senator and the committee will be with the project for two years, or will they try to finish it earlier without a conclusion from this experience to explain the picture to us that did not come to the table? It would also be interesting if that were so. A senator may, in a short way, come on to the first assessment of the task force, not just that it needs to take a closer look but about the financial part and the service. I understand it then so that this law group will be more and less of the duties of society because these are lawsuits that will remain under rural society. I would like to ask and hope that what we are discussing here is out of harmony because I missed the discussion about the conditions: Will they fit into this code? In what way will this be kept in mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u165	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson for his questions. The first showed the time limit where we are discussing these laws on the user-controlled personal assistance and the postponement to 2016, i.e. whether we'll have the delay in reviewing the law, the social services and legalizing of the disabled. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, we've been saying that we think that this year's the middle of a bill. That's a goal. It is very good for all groups to set such goals, but I make it clear that now I am merely sharing what has been discussed in the group and the goals we make. Like what? They are an interesting assignment on rights to unite laws in a single, universal law and desired to achieve them, but at the same time we are talking about physical laws. This will be to the point of problems. We're going to have this earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u166	V.E.G. President. It is interesting if this is to be completed in the middle of a year. On the contrary, I'm not going to discourage the group, trying to get ahead and finish it as soon as possible. It is vital that we obtain all the experiences that have already been experienced with MPA so that it can be used in the legal process. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about what I mentioned only during the past conversation, and you have a bit of bad experience at a time of so big a change, that's the wait that often comes in when something is up, and you're holding back with a change. It is the same as not to have an arrangement or to evaluate the experience of translocation of the entire group. This year's report was due at the end of the year, with a reevaluation of all the financial factors and so on. It's been delayed. How does it play together with a new legal arrangement? That is an enormous and important aspect of the rest of our life. If you wait very long, you may also be inclined to keep it intact while waiting for new laws or changes. We have personally discussed personal assistance related, of course, to the right and agreement of the United Nations on the issues of the disabled. Have people in the group taken some position as to what sort of legalization or entry of that covenant? At the latest, the staff service is very important and has been discussed today considerably. There may be a conflict between the user and the person who wishes to ensure the quality, e.g. the use of healthcare professionals in the management of MPA services. Many of the things to take care of in the everyday life of someone in need of personal help may be considered by a healthcare professional. It was predictable that there would be some differences, and it may have developed to some extent. What Is the Role of What? Has this discussion come up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u167	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson for the questions and at the same time the speculations. You're absolutely right. A senator's work is extensive, and many have to play together. The third working group, which has a financial and professional assessment of the transfer. That group has been working together with this. It is a big challenge to play in all these groups so that we can achieve a whole range of relevant legislation into international treaties and, at the same time, change in the use of term and human rights. It's my experience that there's an enormous amount of work going on and a lot of professional knowledge. I have full faith that we will play together in a way that will eventually make a complete law code. I'd like to commend the highest. A minister for ensuring that these groups meet in order to get this into the most complete course in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u168	Mr. President. This fine issue has given rise to the nature of the matter in accordance with the circumstances and the goods of the situation and how the transfers of the cases of the disabled have taken place and what the situation there is in the important but, of course, difficult. Regarding the subject of the bill, the laws on the disabled and then the laws on how to handle equipment, method of loyalty, and security at work are being changed. I don't think there's a thing that people don't agree on more than what's being measured at 1 Corinthians 3: 1. g., to strengthen recovery in order to establish rules that address harassment and sexual harassment and sexual violence at work. The only question that's been raised is if there's enough trouble over there. There have been moments when a minister is allowed to state regulations. It is quite clear that there is a need for support that the regulations in this Regulation are applicable to things not specifically mentioned in Article 38 of this Regulation. talking only about actions or rules to address harassment. From the looks of it, it seems to me that it must be enough to add these E-joins to the words they're talking about. However, it is better to review it carefully so that there can be no doubt that a Minister's Regulation, no matter what the wording there, may have the legal basis. In fact, I believe the word "Voluntary" is normal. There is no doubt that this is what is prepared in preparation and regulations, or at least Working to some extent if I read right here in the papers. For the regulations of Article 3. I am not going to be a judge in it, and I am strongly convinced that it is the conclusion of those who work in this field that there is a need to be authorized to compromise legal requirements for resting hours and other similar activities, as it is done by an agreement on the labour market agreement. Of course, it is clear that such things always need to be done carefully so that there is no suspicion that the person's case is in any danger, as well as that there is no greater precedent. But you understand fully the approach to having a greater chance of flexibility when it comes to the user - controlled personal service and close to the employee's helper. As I say, I will not hold that strong opinion and trust that it will be done carefully. In terms of the extension of this experiment project - and in reality, the extension of the unchanged situation as mentioned here and once it has become a part of the fact, it has cut out of the 2010 timetable, both for assessment of how it has been successful in the translocation and, in turn, giving this experiment a longer time - it is just a reality that we face and nothing more about it. Of course, it would have been nice if things had gone any faster, including because of what I'm going to take into account only later, that men have referred to this point almost entirely postponed plans to follow, the case of the elderly was then brought over. Of course, this assignment also needs careful, understandable desire for experience, and not too quickly to learn from it lessons, as well as to legalize and postponing agreements for the future. A few words about the cost mentioned here. The old debate on whether the project has followed enough money is often raised. Now it is true that there is no time left to say that there is never enough money on such a matter, and for a long time it can be done better. But I would like to keep it in mind that, at first, as remarkable as it is, people put their arms around and finished this elaborate operation, sort of at the bottom of the crisis, because the weight of this discussion was on the second part of 2009 and in the early 2010. They were not prevented from going to the surgery to transfer the causes of the disabled to the countryside. It was this way that I allow myself to say it, and that the matter is related to me, that the state was very handsome on its part, and let the majority of them primarily enjoy that the State does not accept a nail or that it was not close to securing income with its project and support for the changes. I'll tell you what, Mr President, if you don't mind me asking, I'll go over a little bit of the way in which men approached this subject. It was soon realized that most people would bring income to the countryside by making the change between income tax exchange and the response, that would be the income tax strain that would be there, and it was clear that the proportion of the farm enterprises of the income taxation product would be increased. Then they cleaned up and calculated the cost of the seminary, and it has probably been as it was then when it was in 2009, looking at the outback or income taxation strain and the outcome of that account was based on how the population stood then, of course, very ill at the end of the crisis, would require about 1.34% or 1.36%, or what it was, in order to meet the cost completely with the jury as it had been during the period of time that had been achieved. On the part of the State, it was pointed out that the bidder was very ill and obvious that as soon as he entered the economy, he would grow stronger and lower his share would be sufficient. So it was chosen to attach this to 1.2% of the income tax product and to compensate for the lack until it had been strengthened to meet the actual value of the revenue criteria. They even calculated that it would take three or four years. But now yours was so relieved that this special additional supply of the state to cope with a weak answer, the need for it disappeared in about two years. At that time the bidder had grown strong again, a great deal of wages in the land, that 1.2% were effective. As a result, the part of the contribution made by the government went out to meet the weak dead bidder. But the State did more. This, of course, has a lot to do with the story here. The Kingdom also entered the three - year period, 2011, 2012, and 2013, of considerable financial resources. First, it was to deal with the developing tasks of the user - controlled personal service. That was a total of 300 million, 50, 100, and 150 million each year, in 2011, 2012, and 2013. Second, working on the waiting lists in the system was a significant contribution to the changing costs and management that were related to this operation. If I am not forgetting something that the State specifically laid and in addition to fully ensuring the funds that had required to run the party in the preceding years, good. Then cometh one, saying, Yes; but the need is increased. There is a requirement for increased service. Yeah, that's right, they like that. Of course, whether from a country to a farm partner or from the other side, they do not change their assignment. Then it is important that the income stock that is guaranteed to the rural population is part of the pay market in society. How would the trend have been, how much has this 1.2% proved to be the local community? Of course, there has been a very pleasant development because unemployment has fallen dramatically, there are others in the workplace, and wages have increased above the price. The payout in society has increased more than the price, more than the consumption factor. This should add to the fact that due to the decline in unemployment and higher pay increases over the development of a consumer price index. I don't think it takes a complex calculation to realize that this is supposed to have been a good thing for the rurals. Of course, there is such ambitions to do well, and it is good, just as was proved when the elementary school was transferred. I just want to say that the government couldn't have done much better about this unless it actually adds a lot of extra funds. There is no doubt that the State spent more time than it would have been to carry out the assignment, that all the additional contributions there would not have fallen into existence. Certainly it would not have been my support, and I think it was absolutely accurate. I have not mentioned it this way, Mr. President, but because of the nature of the state's communications with the countryside, and because the state always guarantees a full pay-off by the people on the other side, there is such an account for the state that is definitely approaching 1 billion dollars. now because of the 1.2 percentage points that went from income tax to an outlet, and the state fully makes up for the lack that these outbacks averaged 14.4% in rural areas. I'm sure that account goes to another tens of billions today. Of course, it increases as the percentage of the total tax stock increases. But it was decided not to become involved in these agreements and relationships, so it could, in effect, be said that the State took it by itself and added to it, in order that all the film may now be understood. As I say, along with perhaps more, this shrink has been one of the ways that it has been so small and almost nothing in the plans to actually finish the job and to transfer the elderly to the countryside. It has to be done. Would it be interesting to hear from the highest level? Minister where that assignment is, whether it is on ice or if anything has been done in it. I don't think people will be able to handle these matters as they were, until it's done. Then all this close - up service is gathered to the countryside, and it should be, in my opinion, there. Of course, with the loyal support of the state, which should not regret that these groups and groups of languages are done well, when their communities are secured with income stocks to care for their assignments. I really find it difficult every year to lose the goal of completing the activities of the elderly too, following the problems of the disabled, and then all the other intimate services that the local communities have in doing so. It is true that a working team, one of three, I heard earlier, assessing the economic and professional impact of the transfer, and that's fine, but it would be nice to know where it is going. Some have felt that the rural communities in the country were too weak, and especially the smaller ones, to accept these assignments. I don't think it's a test when it comes to translocation of disabled persons. I believe that the cooperation of the local community on the basis of that problem was very well solved, and in fact, they were generally, and most of them were in cooperation with this party anyway, most often on the basis of the pantheon. It has been successful, so there is no basis for ensuring that too small areas or rural communities are not backing up in this alone, simply with legal requirements comparable to those of the child protection laws that a certain minimum population has to be behind it when it is dealt with by this type of group. The same route was chosen in the case of the disabled and, of course, could also be done in the case of the elderly. Mr. President. These were the views that I would like to share on that occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u169	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's claim for the sermon and review, for reviewing how this story is and what it was like to do. In the best of years, when income poured into the state funds, the causes of disabled people were one of those who did not enjoy the good and may, in effect, be amazed that they were first in the rescue after the collapse of that legal sect that was put into focus in politics. With a very broad political solidarity, the group of lawsuits was able to move to a rural community. The rightskeeping legislation for disabled persons was also established, as well as for the NPA project that was then an experimental project. Now we're extending this experiment, and of course we find that it's not legalized. I can understand it takes time. It's a big project. It's a bit complicated and it's a new approach. But that is insecurity for those who use the ministry or who pursue an independent life, which we naturally want most people to do, which is the worst. They live with it while they cannot be sure that the project will be established. Now, of course, the question is, Of course, that it will be postponed, as well as the lack of money on the project, is to be delayed. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator of that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u170	Mr. President. It is now with this case like so many other things, if we began to recall it, that it required the crisis and collapse and the government standing on the fire shift to do many remarkable things, and one of them was doing this, to complete this work that men had completed in their hands I can't remember how long or how many committees had gone through this. However, the sleeves were brushed out in about one year from the late part of 2009 and into 2010. I remember meetings where we sat with all the organization and wondered, " Is now the right time to do this? I said: " If we believe that it will be good, if it is good for the seminary, we will do it and right now, because if it can be done better for the service and disabled to get more out of it than the rest, then the last time for all is to wait on it now. And we did. Yeah, I feel the same way. Senator. I would have liked to see that this case was further, and of course, you would have liked to, for once in 2015, that we are now doing so from legalizing the box on this issue permanently, NPA, and what is going on there. I can also say that I find it a little uncomfortable to hear the tone in the financial notice of the official financial office that is here granted to the president's permission: Then there is no question of whether or how to arrive at 85 million. K. the additional budget for negotiations of user-controlled personal assistance during 2016 will be similar to the number in 2015. I repeat the expression "How to Meet " or" how to meet " this need. That's a little out of use. But I am now confident that this will be saved. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u171	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is the wording in the expense report that disturbs you. What you usually do first when you have a bill in your hands is read the financial cost story because it often tells you best about who the spirit is on the case. The expense report says that 85 million are missing. K. In addition to 2016, the contracts needed to be reduced. I'm so surprised. When we moved the tribe of paint to the local community, the bill about changing the law on disabled people's issues was slow into the council and the smaller part enabled us to finish the case because it was a great deal of cooperation with the case. Everyone realized how much was at stake, so much solid solid solidarity developed, and ambition was for doing this properly. It required that a minister's plan be submitted later, that was done, and was willing to do it well. That is why it is disappointing that now that this same smaller part of the government is 85 million. K. a problem that causes those who have their quality of life under this service a great deal of anxiety, since there is no slight change in having received personal help and then has to be put out of the deal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u172	Mr. President. I think that's a very important requirement. The minister and representative of the greater part will answer, at least before the case is resolved, having any assurance that this is not too uncertain before it is resolved. I have to admit, I didn't hear you at the height. A minister expressed himself earlier today, but I heard in exchange that there was something to wonder about the confidence of the situation, that these funds would bring back. I don't think there would be a good transmission to the atmosphere to the local communities if these issues were in any doubt at the time of two years. Of course, it must now be acknowledged that this is the case with any additional cost from the state compared to the original 300 million in this project to be completed during the period 2011◯2013. But since then it was delayed, and men have been using penalties that were stored. But we are also talking about extending this period and getting more experience in it. I think it must be fair for the state to continue with the locals in it. I'm also thinking about it, Mr. President, that it's just not allowed to grow in this relationship so that there's some discussion about returning the group. It would be so sad if this happened, but recent examples show that this can be the case, according to a study project on the health care center in Akureyri, which I am completely devastated by the fact that it is the case. It was just as if the state lost interest and turned its butt to Akureyri, and he was forced to give it back, so people go backwards instead of going back on such a case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u173	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A candidate for the talk and the information he gave on the background of the case. It is of utmost importance for members of the community to see that it is the local community that cares for the close - up; the elementary school, the affairs of the disabled, and then the matters of the elderly. These are large groups of languages that are important to the community. I'm convinced that it is by far the best and most successful thing for the population that rural society cares for this party. The problem is, like, a whale. A senator came in, that there are certain suspicions between these two administrative points. I hear out in my district when I speak to local leaders in their tone that they should never have taken this assignment, we should have learned from the transfer of elementary school, etc., and talked about the subject of bringing the elderly to the countryside only by some means. I want to ask you why. A senator what he would like to say about this suspicion, and if it could be that we have in our time or that our previous government could not prepare the matter properly. Or why on earth does this suspicion still exist? And why are people still talking about that there is not enough money to play? It causes insecurity, not just for those who run their communities, but primarily for those who have to rely on the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u174	Mr. President. Now, economic relations between state and rural society and the task exchange are natural eternity projects, they will not be solved once and for all and for all, and will be made forever. In fact, in many respects these issues are more specific than in many other places. My Danish colleague alone while I was a minister of finance told me that it meant nothing to book yourself at a meeting in June because June was closed. Busy for what? Yes, it is June, by the Danish secretary of finance, that he starts making annual contracts with his rural society for annual business relations. It is from morning to evening, usually from June 1 to June 30, hard talk. It is merely a written agreement every year, to a considerable extent, about these financial relationships. Here, though, they are much more stable in that their rural communities have quite solid and broad farms, perhaps not wide, but they have one of the most stable revenues found in any financial system that turns in secret taxes. That's it. I sometimes ask my friends at the local community when they talk about sharing in other income stocks, whether they are absolutely certain that it is an improvement, income stocks that may be faster than this one, which is usually the strongest and most stable income stock in each economy, i.e. taxation of remuneration in the country. Of course, she can give in to others as we did, but she also gave up everything. It would not have been better for communities to share in indirect taxes, some of which almost destroyed the collapse. In some respects, suspicion may be due to the lack of communication at times. For example, the years before my arrival, they had been completely freezing. Well, that's what I experienced. Clearly, the experience of the transfer of the elementary school is ambiguous. I don't think men have anything yet, at least, to point out that the transfer was not a good thing for the state now. In one way I could say that maybe she could have been better equipped, that we had been written for a long time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's the biggest weakness that it was only three years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. A senator named a farm partner and said that rural communities will receive e.g. I can agree with that, but it can cause a disturbance in smaller rural areas when the contractors with private partners earn a small salary and pay from them to the countryside and then take interest from the company, and it goes directly to the State, not to the local community. This is often caused by a plant in the community when tax returns are submitted or by the information on expansion and income tax pay. A respectable president. I'd like to step in to my opinion or comments from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, which I think is very good. There are some here today who have discussed that there is something strange going on, and they suggest that there may be nothing to pay for that money. But I understand this analysis so that they're pointing out that they have to take action, they've forgotten to assume this money, and they're talking about doing some research in 2016. V.E.G. A minister has said today that this will be a law and a policy, of course, that they must be expected to be paid both by 2016 and then by the Ministry's future budget. So this is how I interpret it, so I ask why. A senator cannot agree that this is just a warning, remember to put money in the jury if you're going to make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u176	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator is trying to figure me out by my understanding of the wording of the financial office's cost so that I could think of something else that was being said there, watch out for yourselves now, no one has promised any financial interest in this yet, just as if it was just a friendly reminder that it needed to remember to drive this into the next budget bill. But we have quite a chance to watch and make sure it's okay. As I mentioned, it would be wise to demand the highest order. The minister and the administrative body on this matter in connection with this discussion. Of the rural income and the outbacks, it is true. A senator mentioned that the income stock leaked substantially in the rural areas for one reason, i.e. When less employers became very involved in making their employment in their own name and formed private partnerships. Many rural communities were affected in a number of years, e.g. Seafood departments in which men began to change their designs, their gratifications, into private societies, they were just numbers of landmarks on board. However, we took action in 2009 and in 2010, which greatly stopped into this hole. We carefully accepted the rules for interest from private partners and put a roof on them if they crossed certain boundaries, they had to be counted as wages. Unfortunately, the present government came down and brought it down. We also took the rules on the calculated remuneration so that people could not just issue a silent low wage from this kind of operation, they were to calculate a decent amount of money from their peers. It has greatly improved the situation again, at least I believe that the leak has stopped for the most part unless it is starting again because 50% of the money roof was taken out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u177	A respectable president. I just want to put my words in a vein and then be moved by what is new. I'd like to remind you that we have a deputy, Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter, who can sit in the General because she has personal help. The same one, who doesn't call all her grandmother, is now studying in Manchester, and she can because she has the user - controlled personal help. I think it's so incredibly good and important. It is not necessarily for everyone, and we should not think that this is the solution, but it is one of them and for those who can make good use of the solution that is truly good. There's been talk of cost. However, I have not seen any diagnosis of what to say, above all suspicion that this is a far more expensive option than anything else and that humans have already evaluated everything. Take, for example, the case of parents, caregivers, and others who have to care for a disabled person. If the person receives a MPA service, this may mean - the person who has had to attend to the person who has gone out of the work market, suggesting that there may be fewer hospital admissions by this service, even less costs of medicine. There are so many of these things that you need to take into account if you look at the cost, since there may well be room for them elsewhere. Nor is there any resources, such as custards, that can also be very expensive. I feel that this is not really supposed to be about it. I don't really feel that it should be about what is suitable for each one of us, and I don't regret paying taxes for this service. But it would be very good if some honest assessment were made. I think the Swedes may have gone further on it, where you can see how much it really costs and what it saves. It's been discussed here, and I'm not going to prolong the discussion by saying so, about the uncertainty of the financing into the future. It's not good. It's not good. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon came on, if this is what makes the country more and more conflict, enough now is enough, and people start talking about doing tasks, they need to be a good fit. I also find it interesting to read in the bill where the financing is being discussed. It says 85 million would be missing. K. In addition to 2016, the number of contracts needed to be reduced. Such additional expenditures have not been expected in the long-term budget. I'm on a budget board and I've never seen any long-term plan on state affairs above my head. I don't think most people know what's going on until they get the budget of each year. This is exactly what we will change if we accept new laws on public finances. I will not belittle the fact that somewhere there is some plan on a long-term government budget, but that money is not expected. That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u178	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's reaction to her talk, and she wants to agree with her to her at the expense point when it comes to MPA's enormous complexity, for there are so many factors that we need to consider. I'm sorry, I have no patent solutions on how to do this or where to, in effect, reduce the limit to what is considered as costs and what reduces the cost of the service form. I think we need to keep in mind that there is a form of service, which is all around people's lives, and that's why we're concerned with society. It's all really a bottom line. I'd like to ask you what. Because I know that she has a lot to do with NPA's users, and I have predicted these matters, so I would like to hear her point of view. Not everyone is interested in his own business. How does she feel when the ministry is extended to private people who make a profit from handling the county and part of the user's cost goes into paying the middle ones? Then I'm thinking about the money that would come out of it. I'd like to hear a thought. It's for a senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u179	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. That's a very interesting point. Not everyone wants to take care of this themselves. I was thinking about members of a group who play such a vital role that's κnon-protts. They can accept privileges that the State decides to care for, often doing them very well. I'm just throwing it forward without responsibility, we can tell them if there's any assistance available to a group of members. About the cost as a matter of course. A senator came into their office reminds me that a representative of the European Union society, I don't quite remember, has at some point been told that it is considered that the budget is 20% more expensive. I feel uncomfortable when I don't get the exact diagnosis. I think it would be very important to call for it when looking at this. That's something we on the budget may want to do. What is it based on? Is that someone speaking in the air? Is this 20% more expensive than the cheapest option? I think the Swedes were investigating this. As we've entered it, it's a complicated arithmetic. Of course, we need to know what we're getting for the money, but I still think it's the cheapest way to get the best of our service. I don't think that a comparable service could be less expensive or done any other way than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u180	V.E.G. President. I reiterate that cost analysis is important. I have raised quite a bit of hope in what is presented in a copy of the bill, that a contract with Iceland's Social Science Institute has been concluded to make a professional and financial assessment of the user - controlled personal assistance in this country. I hope we have a very good analysis of that. It should be a good knowledge of the factors we need to take into this account, which is much less so simple. I want to agree with that with what. For example, a member of a body of members, to form partners or other social association, where money may be made in the ministry, is very important because it is a welfare option. I think it is very important that we have the same viewpoint in this welfare strategy as when it comes to other health measures, such as health care. How important it is that we do not care for personal matters that can thus make a contribution to the well - being of people!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u181	A respectable president. I agree with that. I just think a group of members in this context could be a very good option and hope that they will be examined. It'll be interesting at 2nd. when the reviews are made and the case has been treated by a committee. It will be fun to have a greater share in the discussion. I'd also like to take this opportunity and thank you very much. Minister for extending the contract for two years. I'm the highest. A minister rather exploits us so that we can secure this for the future while users wish to accept the ministry. When we don't even know if it'll really be this expensive at the end of the day, we don't meddle at the expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u182	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Social and housing minister to change the law on how to handle equipment, method of loyalty and security at work, and change the law on the affairs of disabled people. There are positive things in this bill, but there are also things that will need to be considered and stopped. The discussion has raised questions about 1 Corinthians. ...the "a" team, but the phrase is that authority should be established. V.E.G. The minister himself has answered that she has received the information that this was legal, but it is even more spoken of as being ◯ legal, rather than ◯circible, and we will naturally consider it on the committee, since the Regulation that is being authorized by a minister is already in place. It has been won, but the minister has not been able to publish it, because it has not improved. This is a very important directive. It covers the rules regarding harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and physical violence at work. These are often serious and often cause people to lose their jobs, and they can have long - term consequences. It may be important that public education is on these matters, and it is a clear message from the Lawgiver that these are matters that are actually taken seriously. I'm really happy about this, and I'm especially glad that I'm coming in there, not only being harassed, but also sexual and sexual harassment and violence at work. Then, in 2 Cor. In order to establish that if the work programme has sent written instructions to employers for improvement, the employer or his representative must report to the labour oce when the comments have been made. This makes it easier for the work board, which is based on the importance of a relatively small organisation, to be effective in implementing it after recovery. Then you can set the stage for those who have responded but who have been able to concentrate on something other than that, rather than try to identify who has responded and who has not. This will increase effectiveness in monitoring, and hopefully will be more effective and will win time to increase the monitoring, which means very much to the security of people in the workplace and at work markets in general. Then it's 3rd. She may be the most complex person on the bill. A user - controlled personal help gives people great rights, is a great improvement in the rights of people who have the potential for their own lives, something that most of us may feel so probably that we do not really realize what they are capable of having an independent life. It's kind of impossible, I think, to put yourself in that track. You can, though, when you have talked to people who have gone into the user - controlled personal assistance and describe what kind of revolution this is in life and how it affects the self - image and courage and ability of people to deal with life just like the rest, and some such as a delight, that they can look forward to what can be accomplished when they have the opportunity to be independent and not on some system. As these rights are important, the rights of the employee are also very important. We have a lot of work to protect the employees, to secure their rights, and it's employees working in the user-controlled field of personal assistance and they need to find ways not to break their rights. Of course, there are a number of people who are personally involved and who do so because they feel that it is a fun job and that it is a convenient work ethic, so you may find ways to make this possible. However, it must be restricted to the manner in which an exception from the law is granted. It is stipulated in the law that there will be temporary regulations until the transfers and arrangements of the NPA will be resolved when it is legalized, and there is an organisation of the labour market that can achieve such agreement. I think it's very important that the government's work board is given a review of such an agreement, as laid down in the bill. I think, as I told you before, this may be what the committee's going to consider more closely, this may be the most complex part of this bill. Then there is a year that is being changed. In 2014, instead of the translocation and financial structure that will be completed, which clearly did not, because it is now in 2015, it is in 2016 and in the b-jords 4. it suggests that personal assistance by means of a user will be legalized as a service form for disabled persons in that law. On the scene of the European Union community society, there is much discussion on the translocation of the case group and on the affairs of disabled people. For example, a thorough report on the joys and experiences of people of these changes, the weaknesses, and the strengths was made. I thought it was an example, and I took pride in doing this well and in being involved with people who enjoy the ministry. Of course, it's a wide pot. That's especially the housing business. It is also a weak point, and, of course, it is more difficult to maintain a certain level of service, although it is far from where there is some striking difference, even though the site is smaller. Last year the relationship wished for a meeting with a welfare committee, and we visited them. There we studied various cases, especially the subjects of disabled people, and it was decided to have these meetings for routines. Now we will invite the relationship to be a year from the previous meeting, now in March, and this review will be specifically discussed, what is involved, and what is the problem. This is an information meeting because there are so many kinds of cases that are addressed to the welfare committee, which overlaps to some extent with the classes involved and may be the gray areas between the state and the local communities that our communities want to remind us of and make us aware of the legal and such matters, making sure that there are no service factors that do not go down. I've previously said that the roads of financial communication between state and rural society are in mysterious ways. There are constant issues and conflicts between them. There is no one else who has more right than that, but everyone is thinking about defending his spending frame in that regard. But I think these meetings are very useful for us on the Committee to help us understand how the issues are developing and what we need to pay special attention to our work. Then there is the Department of Economic Affairs, mainly but then the budgetary committee when it comes to the council. It is the committee that deals primarily with financial issues. But how important it is that we recognize the success of the seminary and whether there is something in the legislation that encourages weakness and trouble! I've described it before, and I've declared it to the highest. A minister has taken a considerable amount of time and had a good prep period in many lands to cross over to the user - controlled personal assistance. I'm not so good at the job that I can judgment on whether the case had not been handled with sufficient force. I can well understand that this takes longer than expected, but I don't think it's time to lose ambition. It is a shame not to continue to increase the number of contracts. Their numbers have increased. In 2012, NAPA treaties were 22, 54 in 2013, except 51 in 2014, then 61 today this year, and they are expected not to increase next year. It is even assumed that they may decrease if insufficient funds are obtained. Of course, we'll be watching this 85 million coming in, but we must also discuss it on this bill whether there is a chance for the increase in the contracts. It is also pointed out that while reevaluating laws on the affairs of disabled persons and community services, it is emphasized that not one option should be established as the main service arrangement but should be a choice, but it is not a real choice unless it is a means of financing into the services that many are seeking. It was a fine thing to say in a case. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's responsibility that there is no need to hide the costs of the user - controlled personal assistance, but this is not a mere cost because of its presence. While this may be more expensive, there is so much to be saved in return, especially when this is considered to increase the opportunity to share in the community as to education and work as well as to save at medical expenses because of receiving a service that is tailored to their needs, and this increases well - being and reduces health problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u183	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are two main questions I have for the senator because I hear it in her speech that we argue that the NPA's ideologies are very good, and in fact, I don't think any man in this discussion ever said anything else. Actually, I'd like to thank you for the whole discussion, because it's been very good and important. On the other hand, the question is regarding equal control with the implementation of the contracts. Of course, here we are talking about a specific, defined service to a certain group of disabled ones who meet specific requirements, being on certain grounds. What really is the position of the rural communities to meet those expectations without regard to their dwelling? It is of utmost importance in the case of disabled persons, only here has been the translocation of tasks, etc., that they do not feel comfortable with their living in terms of a variety of resources, and this is one of them. So I'd like to ask about it, the real challenge that perhaps smaller and less elaborate rural societies are facing. The second question that I would like to ask is, Is there any danger that a certain sparkling will be among those who are unable to take advantage of NPA and those who are unable to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u184	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's questions. Regarding the equality of the implementation of the contracts and the status of different rural communities to meet the needs of its inhabitants, the NPA contracts are partly funded from an equation fund, which, of course, increases the possibility of smaller rural communities as we have established the reporting system so that the services of at least 8 thousand people are to be more stable. Then there is no need to hide that people, either parents of babies born with disability or people who have an accident or illness became disabled during adolescence or adulthood, have sometimes had to move from less places because of lack of service. I'm just gonna admit that I don't know if the transfer has changed that position and I don't dare claim it here. But this is something we always have to wonder about, not just with this group, but with the community's services because some are small and are not really equipped to handle a project that is no problem for Reykjavík, or Gardenville or Akureyri. In terms of palatability, it is the natural step to ensure that non-PA patients receive non-inferior service levels. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. I think it is in itself the proper food that is presented in the case of the day. A senator that there is no doubt in the sea that equality can be guaranteed in this type of service. And that may be our subject, although it does not agree with this matter, on so many materials, i.e. Whether the large number of rural communities in Iceland can be considered as all units for the services of the country's inhabitants. We have held that it is right for rural society to be united on the basis of their own will, democratic will, but some have noted that it may be better to make decisions to unite rural communities in order to ensure the equality of the population. But it depends on a matter other than exactly what is here, but, of course, it is very central whether it is really enough to limit the development of rural communities to cooperate in areas of at least 8 thousand inhabitants. And when we're talking about a very diffuse area, it may be very complicated, if we nose to form Southeast and West, or other areas of that kind. First and foremost, I'd like to ask who. A senator how she sees fit to meet the sparkling I mentioned in my first answer. How to ensure that people who are unable to use NPA will not be left behind in some sense and enjoy the same reliable access to public funds to ensure the best possible service? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-05-64.u186	Mr. President. As I said in my previous answer or previous reply, I think it's a project that we may be about to take on now, to ensure this equation. This happens naturally by the fact that in the countryside and here on the scene there are people who are concerned with these matters and who follow them after all of them get the services they need. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that using personal user - controlled assistance has made it easier for disabled persons to represent disabled persons, to make their voices heard more easily, and they have really changed their circumstances, so the advocates of the seminar also become more with user - controlled personal assistance. With regard to a number of rural communities, I'd like to say that it's natural now that one community, quite thin, has one school that they trust not to run, and they're about to start changing the law so that they can have one private school in the community. You can't do that. You can't fire it like this. About 8 thousand people in the service area were now the last to be the highest level. That is exactly what one minister said about the settlement that it did not free the communities from responsibility. And this is considered to be the case today, especially in the case of the service to disabled people, that there is a great deal of community and commission, perhaps the commission too uncertain, that is something we need to review today. [[The president calls.]]
