ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u1	Mr. President. We discussed last night's fundraisers, and we continue to discuss them today. On this occasion, I would like to call attention to the changes in budgets and in some cases. Senators agreeed with me yesterday. Among other things, professed to be "woe. " General members of the board that this is a grammatical proposal. It is about the increase in pay not only for 2016 but also the recovery process on the general market. I think it's important for us, huh? Councilmen, let's ask ourselves, " Although these groups are getting percentage increases in the bill for 2016, only a fraction of the story is reported. ' I encourage everyone. Councilmen to study the opinion of a group introduced by the Quantum Community last week on what these groups actually receive. The monthly allowance for micromasks, which live alone, is 187,507 k. In the same opinion, there have been 348,537k, or 348,537k, who are left alone in their own homes. of the provisional amount of 482,846 k. for tax. It doesn't take any space scientist to see that the wages we pay for these groups are not enough for them to support themselves. It is not acceptable to speak here about the economic benefits and the better standing of government, but it is not acceptable to see the worthiness of securing these groups of people. A new poll says that 90% of the people did not trust to survive 172 you. K. In a month, and I'm pretty sure that it would be. Senators wouldn't trust themselves to do that. [[The president calls.]] I think we should have a proper view of ourselves in agreeing to the changes in my share's proposals to the budget bill as well as to the 2016 fiscal bill and securing the upkeep of these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u2	A respectable president. It is of interest during the past few days at the General Assembly that there has been no acceptable evidence from the administrative point of view that the ideals of the elderly and the desperate are not to follow the minimum. Now we're trying to figure out what the government's going to do. We've provided a bill for a pensioner's benefits to the minimum. Now the administrative body will be judged by its actions. The budget is now continuing with the hunger policy that the government has for the average wage in the country by changing child reforms and growth reforms into minimum remunerations so that middle - income earners do not enjoy them. If we were to live in an economic disaster, one might understand the actions of this kind. But that's not the case. Not only are there unprecedented circumstances in the government but we also see news that the nation's carrier roads are never before walking. It is noteworthy that the nuclear bomb's assessment last night shows that the falling oil prices yield an amount of 10 billion this year's output. Not surprisingly, in the fall, the builders told me that they would not copy others as they do today. It is good for the fishing industry to do well, but then the government's rate of declines by tens of percent during this season. It will become increasingly clear how important it is to make our cohesion proposal that the fishing regime allows for the exchange of free trades on the market so that the market will determine a price for the fishing rights, a payment to the public for the use of a common resource so that the nation will share the terms of the fishing road, both in good times and in war. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u3	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make it a subject of disabled business with my community. As we know, during the last terms, such as so many other talk over the long years before, it was finally possible to take the cases of disabled people to a community where they are much better off in my opinion, near society. It was also said that when the experience became evident that a few years later regarding the side of the income, it would be revised. That's why I'd like to make it a subject here and now that the local community has called for a discussion with the state's authority on the experience that has come and whether it doesn't need to raise its support. We heard it, probably all members of the Parliament, in the district of July, how it was discussed. I'd also like to make it a subject that the rural communities in the country are now calling for more money from the income tax, the response. We know that it's divided between state and rural society today, and it hasn't changed for a long time. Among other things, new labour agreements have made it difficult for a number of societies to make ends meet. Farmers earn only a person's income, with an outback, but government funds make money, among other things, from a large influx of funds through tourists and others so that it is wrong to be given. All I believe is that the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party is listening to conclusions from rural society that independent and prominent people are participating in sending to the State for discussions about this matter. Why is that so? Or is it like so many other things that it just doesn't happen? It's lying somewhere in there. Nothing's going to happen. Finally, I will continue to agree with what has been said about the case of the elderly and the desperate, that they may receive their reward in return. What we saw here outside the house should be quite enough. There's not much money to talk about. I'm not going to compare that with another salary because time has passed. [[The president calls.]] But what a shame it will be if we do not do it now, the advice of the elderly and the desperate, who really is the General, with prime minister as the chairman of the Board of Elders! Now we've got to get it over with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u4	A respectable president. I made a subject under these teams two days ago of the few competition that exists at important markets for consumers and how damaging this situation is. I talked about the oil companies and that the season's initial assessment report of the Contestant provides evidence of few competition on the market as a benefit to consumers and society as a whole of 4 billion a year, which is completely unacceptable. There is little or no active competition in the bank market, there is peacefulness, and everyone offers the same thing or about the same. That means it's very expensive to borrow because interest is high and services are high, but then when you're going to deposit money in the bank, the interest is very low. Now we've added another one of the competition markets, and there's companies selling electricity to the public. The consumer groups decided to offer their members electrical prices in order to gain a more favorable price and to promote competition in this market. And we know, the results of the auction are now available. Only one company sent in an offer, the Energy Salin, the Rorrie's daughter's company, offering a return of 0.65% from the current prices, no less. The consumer group rejected the offer, and there is very little benefit to discuss with the customer. The result, then, is a low level of competition, not only in fuel markets, banking markets, and others in this country, but also in the electricity market. It has little to do with Icelandic consumers to direct their business to someone else than they already do in business. I ask myself, " What do Icelandic consumers owe? ' They are trapped in a single market that is to be free competition and to suffer financial losses every day because of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u5	Mr. President. I made a subject two days ago, right under this program, the latest progress of the surgeon general on the waiting list for measures in the health system. It's obvious that some people are watching the broadcasts from here because I didn't notice that the media brought this much back, but it turns out I've got quite a lot of letters from people who are exactly in this position. There will be pain even after knee, hip or eye surgery. I'm not going to trace them into individual articles, but they're to my confidence, but they're to read from the heart people who have even walked their knees or hips up to particles in public service and then sit at home in pain, even unworkable, and to wait for two or three years. It doesn't make sense unless the meaning is starving the public health system to death and leaving these measures in private rooms either here or abroad. The budget is now in effect. There is some table for the government, eels, luckily, and I think it's absolutely exclusive to take an opinion of priorities. There are many, but I think that the recent discussion and the circumstances that we face are a call for two priorities, one for returning the dresser reforms to the elderly and the desperate like the rest of the country, whether it has been agreed on by a general labour market or a jury, it has been generous to recompute human pay and, on the other hand, put a considerable amount of money on making up this intolerable long list of health professionals. This is not an acceptable situation. We cannot claim that we have a first - quality health system in the country during this situation. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to do this, we've got the manpower, the tools, and the situation, but we need money to use the resources we have in the country to solve this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u6	A respectable president. If you ask the nation, it is perfectly clear how the Icelandic people want tax money to be their priority. She insists that, regardless of age, class and status, tax money is set out in the medical system, so I want to start with everything. A senator told me first. There is another foundation in the community that we tend to forget, the prison system. The prison system is not a choice. It's not a luxury. It is not something we can decide whether we need or not. We need to. It's not fun to have to do that, and we should need it as little as possible. The way to need what is remembered is to deviate from the path of focusing on punishment. I'm not going to say that this is a matter of punishment, but it's the most important thing to focus on correction. We're not doing it right now. We are neither doing so in policy nor when it comes to financial priorities. So that a prison system can be established that can contribute to reform is necessary for funding, a respectable president. Little hard work lives under completely unannounced circumstances, especially I'd like to say, not just to a prisoner, but also to a jailer. As famously puts it, Margrét Frímannsdóttir's daughter has quit her job as a warden because she feels that she is no longer in charge, as I understand it, under these circumstances. No one can, because they don't have money. Well, that's not all the problems I have, so getting rid of them is enough, but it's such a problem that we need to draw money. I don't know how much money a dollar is, but I'm guessing 50 to 80 million. I know there's a way of raising money to the jury, but we'll have to be interested in him if we're going well. It's not acceptable what it's like to do in prisons today, and if we're going to reduce the need for prisons, we're going to have to increase the money that goes to the jury. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u7	President. Naturally, the budget is very high on the minds of members of Congress. It so happens now, as in the last budget, the smaller part has agreed to come together for a change that I like very much. I hope that gives her more weight. We all know that the health system is involved. It is repeatedly stated that health care is to be done in a private way, especially by the health care professionals. I think it's a serious development. There has not been a proper discussion of this in the community, and I also find serious developments in the views of the chairman of a budgetary committee to the head of the Land Hospital. I don't know, my fellow members, how we can change this except by appealing to the consciences of those who have such an important legal system and who are in the leading legal committee. There is also another group of people who will always be left out, and they are elderly and desperate. I don't know how many times you've pointed it out in this punk. It is so easy to shun people, as I have said so many times before, who can't threaten anything but to get older and weaker. I've heard a lot of senators knock on my desk and call out that we senators, whether we're in smaller parts or more, protect those less fortunate in our society. I certainly hope that the members of the greater part will agree with our suggestion in the memory of not avoiding this group again and again but making sure that its terms are as valuable as ours. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u8	A respectable president. Is there no Davíð, Oddsson? Do I forget that there was a prime minister named Davíð Oddsson here, or is the prime minister forgetting more than his campaign? To read Gunnlaugsson's reply to our being involved in the invasion of Iraq, it is as if Prime Minister Davíð Oddsson never made us part of his declaration to the provincial nations. Sadly, though, Davíð, the son of Oddsson, did so. And while there is truly reason to apologize to the Icelanders, surely it is primarily a reason to apologize to their victims for this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It is absolutely unmistakably unmistakably that in a formal reply to the Council, Prime Minister such as this proclamation has never been made, as tragic as it was, and as much reason as it would be to conceal the declaration of Davíð's Oddsson Oddson on March 19, 2003, but it is, unfortunately, not possible because we were held responsible for what was going on there, an evil, unwarrant, and peaceful people who had always been there and wanted to be it. It was corrupted by the declaration of Prime Minister David Oddsson on March 19, 2003, and it is amazing to read an answer given here in the week in which Sigmundur, son of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, knows nothing about the fact that the prime minister of Davíð, the son of Oddsson, made a statement in this matter or that we have been a member of the willing nations. I'm afraid we were. I think there's good reason for Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson, to consider repeating his answer, to answer the council again on this subject, and truly to apologize for this sad mistake and tragedy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u9	A respectable president. As we have seen, financial work is very important to people, and for this reason I would like to discuss only the situation of the Icelandic language. It has been observed that the head of computer security at Google, the Úlfar Erlingsson, addressed a meeting of the Icelandic literary society and believed that Icelandic was in a rapid retreat. He also said that the technology needed to build defenses for the Icelandic language is real but that we are in the race for time. His statement was that technology could communicate even now as simple material, but in three years or so, it would be possible to speak all the material with the technology it would produce. Such words have been echoed by a professor of Icelandic Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson. We've been discussing this at the Hall of Congress and that our initiative at the General Assembly has been discussed in the digital world. Little by little there has been an understanding here within the store, even at the highest level. A minister who appeared here on the day of the Icelandic language, that it takes considerable funds to build defenses to strengthen the Icelandic language. Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson's son claims that the Icelandic one stands very in palaces, and the key is that it will be used in all areas of society, not to be isolated from certain areas of society, but to all of them. We still haven't seen any further adjustments in the budget. It's a common understanding that it takes 200 million. K. each year to enter this defense struggle. If we do not go back to it immediately, in five or ten years, there will be no turning back, so I will expect it to be in accordance with the understanding presented in the highest court. Minister that we see a handsome change form from the greater part of 2nd. The budget and we're looking at 200 million. K. contributes to this project. [[The president calls.]] If not, the lesser part will offer such a suggestion and expect parapolitic support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u10	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. Here we agreed to a synonym on Icelandic in the digital world, and in the last term, I made a pact proposal to preserve the cultural figure in the digital world. There are millions of jobs if not hundreds of millions of jobs, but sooner we get started in protecting the Icelandic, protecting our culture, the better. It's too late to say anything tomorrow, so I'll let myself say it with a what. Senator. I would also like to allow myself to assume that the Ministers and Governments who receive a plagiarization form approved at the General Assembly, where governments or Ministers are challenged to participate in a project of this kind, which is a transnational agreement, do so. Although that alone may not be enough, we are talking about our cultural makeup, we are talking about what unites us, the Icelandic tongue, and if we are to allow ourselves in one way or another, this language in the digital world, even though we are a small language, we are in trouble. If something unites a nation, it is our language that we have, regardless of our age, of whatever type of interest we may have, to protect. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to be the subject of sexual misconduct in Iceland. Since recent judgments have caused anxiety and wonder, it is appropriate to review only whether a court order can be adjusted to achieve better results in judicial decisions. On average, about 120 persons go to an emergency room each year. 40% of them are under 18 and that's why they're children in the sense of the law. One of the things that call attention and should not be new is that in 95% of cases a person refuses to do so. In the United Kingdom, the district attorney has decided to shift the importance of police in such research. In Britain alone, 85 thousand women are raped every year. More than 16,000 dears, 2,900 cases come in court, and that is condemnation in over 1 thousand cases - of all these numbers. It is not so bad for us, yet there is good reason to follow the example of the British, who are about to put the focus on the doer and not the toleration in the case. The British intend to demand that the people who did so be informed whether or not they had informed consent for sexual activity. Many have made fun of this, saying that it is not possible to sign a statement, but it is a serious matter, and there is no restraint on the way victims act because of the way tests are conducted. [[The president calls.]] In these matters, the interests of victims must be richer than the interests of alleged bacteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u12	A respectable president. I come here to discuss the activities of the council because I'm worried about how more of the legal committee works. It seems that the president of the legislatures does not believe in the director of the Land Hospital when he says that there is a lack of money in the hospital business. 30 million were put in the pursuit of money. There was a coin for what he said, and he got some advice in town, or what do I know? Why don't you just take the Land Hospital staff off the record? Is that not more reasonable? So, then, can these 30 million go to build a new roof on the collapse of the Grensá? Is there any small indication that money is missing when staff there, at Land Hospital, use diaper - diaper equipment just to keep the roof up, to receive water? People are running away from the roof falling on it. Is that something these members of the budget, anyway? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, et cetera, or do you need to see if that story is correct? I don't understand this priorities. I want to see these 30 million who are going to go to a town where there may be a need for work - we've seen what advice it is, that's loyal friends of the board, and that's the subject of another discussion. Can we do so well and send this 30 million straight into the Grens Rivers before the weekend because the roof is falling apart?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u13	A respectable president. The comments of the Ólína's Þorvarðardóttir in an interview at the Wavelad this morning attracted my attention, but they could be understood that the health - care minister sent to his own health care committee instructions for saying goodbye to a number of patients receiving certain medications. In this country, as in other countries, the lawgiver assumes that a position is taken on the basis of medication, medical equipment, and specific health care factors. The Committee of Medicinal Products is the legal administration in the country that makes up the decision to pay the state of the state on drugs, and the decisions made by the Committee are not welcome to minister. The committee was set up by law No. 83/2004, drug songs that changed the law No. 93/1994, which was given to her to discuss the price of all medicinal products, the payment of medical insurance for medical expenses, and the price of payment. The Committee represents the health insurance of Iceland, the Ministry of finance, the office of the surgeon and the Institute for Medicine. The decision-making committee should bear in mind the purpose of the law to minimize the cost of medication. The law therefore follows the requirement of the constitution that the decision made by the Committee must be carried out within the legal and financial boundaries. In 2012, already during the night. paritaprevir An Ólína Þorvarðardóttir daughter was a member of the council, and the law of No. 45/2012, about a change in health insurance law and prescriptions. In addition, the Committee of Medicinal Products was assigned to decide in consultation with National Hospital experts which drugs are considered authorised. Permissional medicinal products refer to medicinal products only used in accordance with clinical guidelines, as well as at any cost-and-exploitability, as agreed in section 5. 43. g. ritonavir. When it comes to their decision, a health - paying committee is made to keep in mind the purpose of a pharmaceutical law to minimise the cost of medication, as 1 mgr. 43. g. ritonavir. This is what the Minister's going to do. The rightfulness of patients is important, even more important, that we take the lead in the truth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u14	A respectable president. It is vital that we keep the truth in its proper place. The decisions made by the Committee are based on instructions made by the secretary. The minister has himself instructed the National Committee on the procedure that makes it possible for patients who are in a new practice and who have not been in the medical service in the past. But, a respected president, the government betrays the elderly and the poor, betrays patients and low-payers, and she betrays the country. Today, a report on the economic growth of parts of the country was published in 2009,2013 over the years of collapse. The report shows the whites the economic barriers that have become between capital and national settlements and how different parts of the country are. The share of the capital capital in national production has reached over 70%, but economic growth has been mentioned in the northwestern just since 2000. The production was most closely combined in Southnes and Western Europe, where there has been a frightening trend in recent years, especially after the beginning of the peyote system. Such evolution is not natural laws. It is human activity. It is the result of decisions made here at the General Assembly. This development could easily be reversed, for example, by giving them parts of the country priority in the construction of important transport workers, through the development of communications, the ringline of fiber optics, and the increased electrical security, which are key elements for working and setting up this part of the country so that it can be competitive. The animal tunnel between the north and south of the West is a crucial factor in this matter so that this area can take advantage of opportunities as other parts of the country. [[The president calls.]] We have plans, we have tools, we have tools to reverse these trends, and we're supposed to use them because there's everything we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u15	A respectable president. I come here to correct a word that I fell here earlier and apologize for. I said, "What?" the temporary warden of Little-Sunut, Margrét Frímannsdóttir'sdot, thinks he can't handle the job if I got the right idea. But I got it wrong. I've never heard her say it, and I've only made my own feeling for the jury of her words, which is that he's in pieces and that this can't be done. But right after my speech, I noticed, called her, apologized, and thought it was right to come here and apologize to the assembly as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to bring up the matter, for example, that more of the budget committees have not yet produced a requisite proposal for 2nd. ... abundant. 3rd. The budget was to be held yesterday, and you ask yourself, " What is the cause? ' Is there such economic necessity that financial proposals cannot be made? No, things have never been better in the state population in the last few years. Is this because we didn't have much time? No, it's never had more time for making money than it is now. Is this because something else keeps members of the council busy? No, the government's painting has no precedent in later history. That is an amazing lack of a task force on the front of the budget board and on the part of the government. We cannot be offered up for such a situation. Now because of this, it's totally unacceptable to 2nd. budgets are needed on Monday because there has not been an opportunity to review the suggestions of the greater part, and the smaller parts do not allow opportunities for their own suggestions to be developed. [[The president calls.]] So I have to ask a respectable president: "When can I get another one? " The budget is held, and will the president not begin to ensure that the president of the legal committee will no longer offend people in town and go to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u17	The President expects more of the legal committee to be delivered today on this day, assuming that the discussion can be conducted on Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u18	President. In the beginning of my case, I'm going to be able to read from a paper with the bill, where the State's budget is quoted since 1997. That's the law No. 88 from 1997. In the introduction says, with President's permission: ▪ With the sentence of law No. 88/1997, on government income, and in a report by that bill, the General gave clear direction on the role and content of budgets. This includes assuming that all predictable budgets will be provided in budgets but that financial contributions will be sought to provide resources that could not be provided under budgets. - I'd like to repeat that, a respectable president who could not be provided for the financial decommission. --in accordance with the budget, such budgets are primarily designed to address inevitable issues, particularly for unforeseen occurrences, the effects of new labour agreements or new legislation during the year, but not for plans for new projects, increased scope of activity, or e.g. The Management Board of individual states over set budgets, as it is recommended in the law to refer to such guidelines for changes in budgets to cover budgets for next year's budget. I believe it is right to review this at the beginning of my case on budgets for 2015. However, it seems to me that in that way, if I may say so, glad as a result of the occasional increase in income from what was expected, the economic situation in this country will end much better than expected, thus raising the income of the state's funds. Of course it's a pleasure. It would also have been a pleasure if these incomes could have been returned and paid off debts. There will be more leftovers than expected at the beginning, but costs will still increase more than expected in the budget bill. I'll go over it later. A respectable president. To begin with, it is also necessary with income, just as costs are needed to try to estimate it according to your best judgement. When the economic situation is better, more tax returns, and so forth, but it seems to me that money money was badly planned and that, for example, it enters the bill 15 billion, no more or less, in additional financial payments and that before me speakers have noted that this seems simply a lack of plan. When misjudged in this way, people may be able to foresee that these may come in financial terms, giving those who have the authority a chance to add the fees that are not given the discussion in a Senate hall that will happen when the budget is paid for each year. Therefore, it is important in this case to plan the right payment. As far as I'm concerned, it will be so that people who know better than I believe that this is happening again in the legal sentence by 2016 that it is not fully planned for money that we might expect in that year. I think it's serious, and I want to draw attention to the need for this. It also caught my attention when I crossed the deck we have, assuming that the income of a valuable tax will be lower than expected in the budget and will be on the base of the network of some 2.4 billion more than on the supply of 1.9 billion. These are no small coins that are now estimated less than expected in the budget. I began looking for an explanation on how to deal with it because everything else is going up, income tax is going up, even the insurance bill is considerably higher, I think it will be hundreds of millions of dollars that the insurance bill is more than expected, but all of a sudden there are 2 billion less valuable taxes. On page 18. 52 on the bill for the budget is about this joint: ▪ These reports include: It is thought that worth tax is less paid to the state's budget when business is in business problems as a result of economic recession and that such changes in behavior are less slow to back than roll and the tax stock. I think it's a little serious. Is it true that worth a tax split-up is so bad, which covers 2 billion? A tribute tax is not a tax laid on companies, such as the full tax paid by the consumers. Rather, it is a tax from the consumers. I think there's a term called fictitious tax. This is so that the companies are sitting in there with taxes they've already collected from other people we've already paid, and they don't get into government funds. It is suggested that once the value rate is not very high and when it begins to work better, it will take longer to return to the right course than for other fees. This is very serious to me. We're talking about 2 billion. It's not a nickel. Earlier this week, the Contestant Commission issued a report on the local fuel market, the original checks, and the final analysis. It shows that we may be paying over 4 billion for that product because of lack of competition. It's very serious because the companies in this country are the basis for us to have a good life here and that the industry thrives and we all want it. But there must also be a requirement for those who run the companies that they are paying them with a merit tax. There have been times when it has been said that when you put some money on budgets, for example: Well, let's get millions, even billions, of people, by increasing tax control. Then they laugh. But here it is revealed in budgets for one year, people are actually saying that, I understand, in explanation of the bill that people are so ill and at the same time that the surveillance is not enough or not needed to achieve 2 billion. It's not a little bit. It stuck in my eyes, and that's why I want to call this in my review of the budget. As I said before, it's a pleasure to increase the income more than it should be, but the charges are raised, and so I refer to what I did in the beginning, because when the budgets are set for the budgets and not on the budgets - such as the projects shown in tourist areas, I think it's a second or third year in a row where financial contributions to the great category that we all know to need a lot of money, are decided on budgets and not in budgets. We may know the story about it, and perhaps we don't need it, and it's not nice to always roll the highest. Pro-and-travement minister Ragnheiður-Elín-year-of-year-old Árnadóttir, out of the failed bill on the natural pass. Yet, there can be no more than to mention it, especially in view of the 850 million people to whom it is due. I don't doubt that there is a need for that. But this pointed to a smaller section of the budget when last year's budget was discussed and people just looked at the ceiling or I don't know what they were doing. At any rate, they did not want to listen to it. It may have been because they didn't want to talk about the basic bill over how to finance the needed structure at tourist locations. I want to draw attention to this. Then this funding will return to Telenor, which is also such a routine help in the budget. Everybody knows this needs to be paid, these are the expenses we have to pay, but they're always put in cash. But now I understand that there is going to be a better future for people who are better off living things like others. I just want to mention the increased cost of public affairs. This is because a court order decides to make a significant rise in the defenses and the terms of the guards and the court officials. They do this after last year's agreement and would have been better done sooner, where there's the first rise. This is very high. Since then, there have been significant increases in the wages of all who are not available. It is my opinion, most respected president, that our main problem in Iceland is what our salary is and that we need to increase our salary in the country. The company in this country has to take responsibility to pay people a decent salary, which pays them more taxes, and that makes them better to live. But that was the first thing that rose. Then there were medical contracts and all kinds of contracts, and all are expected to increase in pay during the year. In fact, from March 1, we have been raised. Everyone except the poor and the elderly, everyone else should raise, March, May, and the defenders at the end of the year, all except the ones who earn the lowest. I'm gonna get to it right here at the end, a respectable president, but time is running so fast. I'm just gonna mention the medical bills. 1.8 billion should be paid for increased medical costs. Of these, 1.1 billion are negotiated with expert physicians. The agreement with expert physicians has naturally become a capitalist, and such agreements need to be made up of all. Of course, it doesn't work, as some men have said, that it's an open tern. While the public health - care system, the Landsituary and the health care - care department in the country is under insufficient resources, there is an open branch for independent doctors. It's just an open branch for independent doctors. We need to record this. People have said, "Yes, but the former government didn't deal with expert doctors, and then we had to negotiate, so much so. " That may well be so. But why wasn't it written? It was because it didn't work. But why not? Because we all need to understand, not just present things, but all of us, that this system needs to be recorded. Take it like a bag, like a trash bag, a recycled trash bag, i.e. One pours it out and then starts putting new things in it. This is no longer a garbage bag. This is a very serious situation, and it needs to be settled. The rate of hunting is dropping naturally. It is a constant feature, as is usual in all the laws made by the government regarding the government's income. The fishing costs are to be reduced, and the fishing has never been so successful. Men use the resources they own and do not pay for what is righteous. There are some who say, 'They pay income tax from this.' But there is no comparison between income tax and a catch tax, a respectable president. In the last few minutes, I'm gonna come to the older citizen's choice and to make a living. Here is a motion made to change the ideal populations in society from May 1. That's 6 billion. We're good for it. There is no question that we can afford it, and this is to be done. We're not even supposed to have to think about it for two minutes. How can we expect every class in this country to increase in wages, but not that group? Is that group of envy worthy of their approval? It's a little hard to calculate this on average, but it seems to me that we're talking about raising this by 25 yous. K. in that group, 25st. K. We're getting an increase of over 60 yards. K. In the debate on Developmental Cohesion Agency and what we cities for developing cooperation, people often said, because the percentage is being lowered, it's smaller: yes, but it's the capital that matters. Bosentan was not important, it was the centenarian, and we were paying more because there's an increase in national production and something like that. What about in this? So, what's the deal here, then? It doesn't matter we get 60 grand. K. and the requested group receive 25 of you. K.? And we don't even have time to pay it from May 1 as well as others in society. It is a disgrace to us, a respectable president, if my share's proposal cannot be accepted. It's the only word that can be applied to this institution, that it will be a disgrace to us if we don't raise the terms and do not improve the terms of these people from May 1. That's what I'm going to let be my last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She got on a lot of things. The lack of money is thought - provoking. Not only is it this year but last year, when money money was underestimated, the sum of money was high. Last year there were an estimated 6 billion, but 256 were returned. Today, the estimates are 6 billion, and the same is the case. Is this something done? Counts 'em out. A senator's appearance should be made as a means of making money so much less money? We know of the investment plan of the last government that part of funding it was remuneration and fishing fees, such as labour. A senator came on, dropped very much since this government began and did not support those who needed it, i.e. the small ones and those who were not laid up in the same place as the big ones making on their toes and fingers. Has a what? A senator or some explanation for why these budgets are on the basis of interest? Is this done with a mind - set or a way to plan for a year's profit? What causes the agglutination that takes place year after year?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u20	President. Sadly, a person may think that this might be the way he wants to do it. I think the treatment of budgets and allowances has improved very much over time. I haven't done this study, Mr. Honorable President, but I think the budget is now less part than it used to be, and it's for the good, because it doesn't belong to anyone at all. On the other hand, I think we're in a bit of a bad situation if those who plan to make the money pay and so forth, we don't have much better plans than these differences show. Therefore, you must think that this would be done in order not to get caught up in the discussion that is naturally needed because they said that it did not exist for the investment program that was approved here some years ago because it became clear that it was good and that it was more than that. Maybe they're avoiding it. Then, too, if they have an idea that there are some billions of people involved in the budget, they will be able to place money in and out of discussion at the council. That's what's so serious when you give money on budgets, because that's when you don't discuss it. [[The president calls.]] It's not a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u21	Mr. President. Something else also attracts attention. A senator says that these things are not to be discussed here at the council. Then you can think of such factors as transport and tourism funds that are passed by a traditional decision - making process. Transport is responsible for 1.3 billion who do not follow standard routes and there is no discussion really, within both the environment and the transport board, but are fixed behind closed doors where these additional funds go, e.g. For the most part, transport that has had to be expensive in recent years and would have really had to spit on it. I don't talk about a lot of tourists coming into the country, and we're trying to encourage tourists to travel far and wide around the country, but transport does not always offer that. What's the matter? A senator of this type of work and also of the tourism Fund, which was highly underestimated at the outset, 145 million, told himself that there was a need for more money to go there? They arrive late and eventually, so those who were supposed to use them did not have time to prepare for them and plan and put in the process of what was to be done in their rural society this year. Then, at some point in spring, we were added 850 million, which are within the budget, to the Commission Fund of tourist attractions. It's a question of whether they've been used because they came too late. This work is so far behind. What does that count? A senator that does this with one hand, not with the initial budget for this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u22	President. Exactly, when misjudged like that is, people do not take power only that they do not have. Transporters, for example, have specific guidelines to work for, but by using the budget in this way, people go by all those rules and say, "There is no money. " No one doubts whether they need money in there, but the Senate is setting priorities in these matters, not in the government or in the travel board or in what name it is called at a time. Of course, that is not the way it should be, so the work is important. It also counts for the very communities, such as the driving force. A senator mentions, and for others who are going to collect from this fund and so forth on the streets that they know what is available. Or what? We're going to make people in rural society and elsewhere sit and say, "Is, Is there nothing to tell them? I'm just picking around, even though I know that there's nothing in this pot because somebody's going to do something about it. Is it so that some who are better friends of those in the government who know what to put in the budget than others can know that it should be added, which makes them feel safe to apply? A respectable president. This is a mismanagement of all the rules of the game. It hurts. Then we're going to talk about government money afterwards, and it's going to be a way to fix it more. It is good, but even within the laws that we have today, it is difficult to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u23	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir's speech was chosen. I'd like to say something with a what. A senator who works here is making more money than expected. It's for itself very good. However, it cannot be overlooked that they would increase much more if the government did not constantly give up income and income stocks. I also agree with that as well. A senator said that income taxes cannot be compared with hunting costs. I just want to move on with it, because as the fishing costs drop, they'll pay off their huge profits and pay off a lot of money. Hv. paritaprevir Last night, Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir pointed out that government funds are paying off the interest paid by the developers. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Can this be compared? Is it possible to compare payments, i.e. The tribute of the money of the state, and the price of fishing? Or is it? A senator would agree that there is nothing more than a very obvious manifestation of the bread - crumbling theory, since it has just become so that the state's funds will have to be thanked for the income that comes from the wealthiest dollars in the country to us?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u24	A respectable president. Of course, it is not comparable that companies pay taxes or companies pay their fees, such as the fishing fees. I don't really have the imagination to compare it in my mind. I have to say it. In fact, I believe that fishing costs should not be the same as they are. I'm just about to say "Don't bother. " Then we can say that they would choose the fishing fees themselves. Then they decide how much they trust to pay for every ton they fish out of the water. Then it would be part of a set rather than the remainder size calculated somewhere on a table. It's my opinion on how to calculate the cost of hunting, and I really hope that I will live on that arrangement to be taken up here. I forgot to say in my speech earlier that after that, there'll be 800 million and 800 million. K. which we had decided at the council that it would be the time for a family of 600 million. At a time, and then 200 million. K. magazines in interest of interest. By having the decrease so much and so much, the government fund is going to cut this 600 million. K. Back into his savings instead of changing his target of the year when it became clear that these incomes were too low, because the general council had decided, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm not sure that me and what. When it comes to handling the cost of fishing, a senator fully agrees. I'm of the opinion that we need to be very careful about it and that it is generally not a good thing that individuals or businesses can decide for themselves what to pay for the government. Of course, there's a fair way to put a spell on it, but I don't generally think it's good that men can just decide for themselves. I think we can get into a lot of trouble, if that should happen. Hv. In answer to the child's request, a member of the body also discussed the changes in memory of the reorganization of pensioners, disability candidates, and old - age pensioners. I then agree with it as a matter of course. A senator said; it is quite selective how to speak of it, i.e. about a quarter increase and then a percentage increase when more convenient. In general, though, when groups with very low incomes are making the raise more money. I'd like to ask you this general question, "Do you know what I mean? " A member of this budget and perhaps financial policy in general of the government gives evidence that there is any interest in improving the interests of those who are in an economic community? [[The president calls.]] Or does the emphasis seem to lie elsewhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u26	President. I'm not surprised that I did or did. A senator does not agree on whether or not to offer a message. It may be a little bit of a punctuation for me to say that they decide the price of hunting themselves. They say the bounty is way too high and stuff like that. But if it is an auction and they offer it, they will decide for themselves, but perhaps not exactly according to the sound. No, it is no less so than to be seen by the actions of this government that it has the interests of the elderly and is especially concerned. That's what we're going to do now. I understand that it's that way in the budget bill, that there should be a minimum of 9% added to them during the New Year's season. However, there are now figures that the 10 - point increase is about 1 percent. Just like what? A senator said that the percentages when income is so low may well have been talking about a raise for these people because, unfortunately, the percentages do not always give too many dollars. Sadly, it does not appear that the government has great concern for these people's interests. I'm going to repeat what I said earlier: I think it's the people sitting in this room embarrassing if we don't accept the change in my share. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u27	V.E.G. President. The role of the government is complex, but its basic role is to keep its nation together in one society. It's my opinion that the government at this time is not going to succeed. Sometimes I think that she's not trying at all to do this. What is the standard for such things? From my point of view, you should see whether society feels like each other, that we're all on the same boat, or if we're going apart, and unfortunately it's happening right now. The fragmentation in society is going in the same direction that took place between the 10th and the 30's and the years leading up to collapse. There is no doubt about it. There is no doubt about it, I now believe that evolution is moving in this direction. How does the government get into such a situation? Yes, the country's interest depends on what comes in the pocket of each person and also on the other side of the pocket. It determines our buying power and the standard of life we live in. This is one of the elements to be seen. The other factor we must focus on is that of society, because it is a guarantee of recovery in various areas. How does the government handle these infrastructures, how does it interact with them, the health system, the social security, law enforcement, and so forth? These are factors that need to be looked to as well. I stated earlier that the government had reached this trend, both, of course, in terms of the latter, but also in its emphasis on tax issues. We were immediately given a clue as to where they were heading during the first days of the reign of this government when the decision was made to cancel the wealth tax. He was, indeed, set aside for a certain time, that is absolutely correct, but I am convinced that it would have continued on that tax if the former government had remained in power. That's my conviction. She did something else that made a big difference in the government's income, and this involved the fishing fee. This was greatly reduced, and the decision was made during the first days of the reign of the government. This was reviewed this morning and during the discussion earlier. Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir recalled this. A Árni Páll Árnason, why. A senator and chairman of the United Nations did the same thing in a speech about the council's activities this morning and pointed to the reduction in global oil prices as a result of the contribution to the development of about 10 billion. That's the best I heard. It's a welcome success, and I agree, but we also want the benefits of the production of Iceland's most precious resource, the marine resource, to cross society all. At the beginning of our reign, the government made a decision that would be only to a limited extent and far less than we would have wanted, as we had previously thought about government control. Then it's the energy tax. The government is not specifically given for energy taxes. I'm not surprised. What's happening right now is that the energy tax is becoming the case with Lilja, who now wants to be more and more, but there were others who did it in the first place. This has been one of the main priorities of the left movement ◯ green productions, and we have provided very detailed suggestions on this during recent losses and have put them in action when we were in the Council of Control. So these are no new clothes, but I'm glad if the Pirats are about to surface our boat with the left movement's policy of taxing the large industry taxing the energy. Then there are changes in the energy tax environment, but this is the basic thought that the left movement has long emphasized. These are the priorities of the government and the government's opposition, the removal of resource taxes, the reduction of hunting costs, the resource costs, and then this energy tax. There's a clear choice. Of course, this affects the standard of living in the country. It affects the standard of living in the country each time because it finances hospitals and schools, health care, law enforcement, etc. The less money there is in our common fund, the less the share of these factors all becomes. When we talk about the benefits of those who have least in the country it is not enough to look at the numbers as such and the evolution of the taxes that are determined by us here and run through social security. That's not gonna do it on its own. We need to look at our expenses as well. We need to remember and face the fact that results from surveys conducted by Iceland's cancer community, Dr. Ingimar Einarsson, and since Iceland's University of Social Science, Professor Rúnar Vilhjálmsson, have been exposed and presented in one way. Now - and it's not just this government, I'm looking at 20, 30 years - that the patient's share in the medical expenses is a fifth. These polls show that the most efficient people living in a series of desperate places and the elderly hold back from seeking health care because they are not making enough money; the expenses have become too high. This is the context we have to look into. It is not enough to hear the figures coming up and hearing that the microchip that the lowest are getting far less than 200 years old. K. I don't remember if it was 187 yous. K. ..................... I don't have the numbers in front of me. It's low numbers, but it gets scarier when you try it into reality if you live in poor health, and I don't talk about expensive housing. This is the context we must always look to. Hence, when we consider our government's progress, we need to ask about the interests of our subjects: How does it feel to be low in income and in good health and to suffer from health problems? What's it like? Is it better or worse than before? What's it like to be modest and rent in a public rent? What's it like? Is that better or worse? This is how we must appreciate the progress of the government and the success of fulfilling what I call the key role of every government to keep nation together in one society. It hasn't worked. That is why I would like to agree with many members of the government stand that have joined me in one basic requirement. It is to add to the poor and the elderly, and to make them quirky again. That is why we propose it in budgets that are due this year. As a result of a fine commission from a smaller body of legal committees, the president's permission says: With the changes in the memory of the part, a fair proposal for an older citizen and disability to be added in accordance with the increase in the minimum salary and pay increase from May 1 this year as in general pay. It is suggested that about 6.6 billion dollars be granted. a donation to improve the interests of older citizens and disability. Under this, I take my mind. We've noticed that almost everyone who's been discussing the debate on the side of the government puts the main emphasis on this because it's just as it has been said that we in these halls are wise advice for these groups. We make those decisions, and we are to shoulder responsibility for them. Is this just a financial matter? Yes, primarily because it matters what you have in your pocket to cover expenses running home. But this too is a fair matter. If the government or the government is to succeed in doing this and to take us all into them, ask to reconcile the community and keep the nation together as a society, then people must feel it and they must be the source of a sense of fairness. If we don't do this and don't have a handsome contribution for those with the smallest amount of income, especially in the light of the huge favors we see so many people being having, then we're failing our job. Then we will not succeed in keeping the nation together. V.E.G. President. There is a reason to bring up many factors here, and I would like to mention one point that has been presented in the talks of a large number of people who have spoken up. It is pointing out, on the other hand, that much is unpredictable, and thus, there is a need for motility in the construction process. However, much is also predictable. It was predictable that extra money would have to be set for tourism. Was that not predictable? Today, we are talking about 850 million running there. This is the amount of money or anywhere in this roleum that the government put in place just a year ago in this hall when the budget was being taken care of by 2015 would have to be minimal, in view of the fact that the tourism stream to Iceland was increasing, and we have to take measures to protect our country's environment. That was predictable. Now it is the old presuppose to appear to us in government budgets. Some factors may also have been predictable or could have been affected but were not. I'm going to make money there. In view of the smaller part of the legal committee, the bank's interest payments are made in particular, pointing out that the government's bill for 2016 is expected to deliver a 7.1 billion dollars by the National Bank. In return for the treasure of the state. It's pointed out. But it also reminds us that in December 2014, the National Bank was expected to return 6 billion dollars. interest in government funds. Then, after the New Year's Day, the bank's bank government proposed a fee that was adopted shortly thereafter at its main meeting and received a share of the State Fund of 26.6 billion dollars, a $17.9 billion bill. more interest was done than found in the budget. Of course, at that time it was also predictable, or was supposed to be, and as a result, the less critical part was inaccurate in its practice. However, in view of the government's plans to sell part or part of the State's share at the Lands Bank, I especially call attention to this now. That's what I think is very out of hand. For many reasons, discussions on the subject here at Congress have often pointed out that it is incomprehensible. Marketing reasons for making banks in the marketplace and for sales, to be out of place in order to cover the market. Then, they point to the big money they are running toward the community. Third, they are viewpoints. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson has been on the lead, and I take heart, and we've spoken a lot for years and decades, it's not new, but he's taken it up, and it's praiseworthy. It is that society is seeking to take this profit or this profit, this gain, in lower interest, in lower services, in the business of a community bank. I feel that there is a view that we need to maintain, examine, and direct it to a greater extent to reevaluate our views. What a marvelous thing it is to hear a government representative come up in a pit and talk about how devastating and foolish it is to run a government bank, but at the same time to start a bank or to share in a U.S. banking agency in southern Asia and to put in it 2.3 billion. This is to be done in a dose, but only the prince's hand will in the light of the discussion of the government on that subject. There are a lot of things I would like to discuss and deal with the government, but we have a discussion about the budget, because what we are naturally talking about is the current year. There are the payments we would need to make. Next, a discussion about the school system, about health care, waits for the budget. This morning, in part, it has been made payable to the long list of waiting lists and waiting lists that are increasing, e.g. in replacement surgery. I heard it in the Hall of Congress this morning, and I actually heard stories about it private and personally what problems it causes people. We'll talk about law enforcement today. Some want to take the lead in strengthening her by getting a gun in the hands of police, others wanting to care more for the general law enforcement force. I'm on that boat. But this is something that awaits a future discussion. It's not far off. We'll probably be next week about discussing the budget for the coming year, by 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He mentioned a wealth tax, and I'd like to say in the beginning that when I was a financial minister, I noticed a technical flaw in the wealth tax and said in interviews that I wanted to revise it. It has been used by my political opponents to prove that the Conspiracy did not want to take taxes from rich men or to support the equation of the tax system from time to time and can, of course, be seen in the approved United States. The role of the tax system is just as important to the income of it. Enough about that. I am convinced that no one in the community believes that the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir would never have dropped taxes on the wealthy in the way that has been done in the past by the government and then made sure that the poor and the elderly were under the minimum wage. It just never would've happened. I don't think people doubt it over their heads. I want to ask you why. A senator on the budget bill, where extra financial resources are added to both the medical department and the Sala County clinic, both private clinics, and who have made a service contract with the state where they are expected to receive the cost of growth. However, the route to the public system is not yet at medical stations or hospitals. That's what's up. A senator did not comment on this? Does he not feel that it is an independent surgery in the public health system that growth is not improved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u29	V.E.G. President. I think it's good to have history complete in terms of taxation, including a wealth tax. Thank you. A senator for doing so. We agree that the role of the tax system is twofold, to earn income, and to get equal terms. It distinguishes people who are not socialists, the second group looking primarily at the tax system as income - raisers. Thank you. A senator for looking at a private health service. I also thank the senator for writing and advance in the past few days and weeks. How important it is that we keep a close eye on these matters! I wrote a detailed article published in DV today with three questions to the health minister. We need to make our community fully aware of what really is happening. They're trying to starve the general system. The current president raised this issue in his mind about this morning's work, regarding replacement operations, and asked if there might be a reduction in donations for the public health care to favor the others. Here's the reason. A senator's example of these differing priorities. I encourage us to stand up for this watch, not only in this room, but in the community all, because the repeated reports have been made, now in the last of Rúnar's fine article, Professor Vilhjálmsson, of November 27, where he refers to studies that reveal it, that the vast majority of Icelanders of all ages, and in all political groups, we are assigned here to have a system that is driven by the government's facilities for living. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u30	Mr. President. In discussions about health care and especially health care and the need to be strengthened, certain social elements seem to be the main health care problem to be the management plan, that once the management plans were changed and other private clinics had been established, family doctors would go home and come here to run the stations. However, I believe that the main problem of health care centers is a lack of financial resources. Today, some expensive food is being made up of a system that provides financial support for each patient. Three other clinics in the capital area are to be added, but additional funding are expected to run them or deal with the population's age range, resulting in overall pressures on the system. So next year, to invite someone to run three stations, it's not mandatory, but it's supposed to invite someone to run these stations - but it should not be put on extra funding. I want to ask you why. A senator sees how this can work out. What would it be wise to do to strengthen the clinic in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u31	V.E.G. President. When it comes to health matters, people are playing an ugly deception toward them. I agree with what. Senator, what's missing is the funding. Now, however, we see only a beginning of a longer process, and I especially look to the Independence Party, who has been interested in personalization, especially in health care. He starts by assigning private partners to institutions, including clinics now. Do those who get their business in their hands ever lose it? Do you think they'll have another invitation in ten years and we'll have a new team, new doctors, new operators? No. It may work once. Then, the real market area is held in what the health minister declared a few days ago. He visualizes a system with the patient's capital. At that time, the clinics will put up a fight for patients and will try to get patients who give most of them. Few people will want to fish in the rural area because it gives less. The experience abroad from similar systems is that in poorer things there is less access to such systems. The goal is for the real competition to take place. I'm here to encourage people to read this article that I wrote in DV today -- Yes, I'm advertising an article, I'm calling for a discussion and thank you. þm. A new Oddný Daughter for getting us up early on the last few days with writing, including There and elsewhere, and in the speech chair here, because there is no need. [[...in advertising D.C.?]] We need to take this discussion. [[The president calls.]] What does government really watch for? I think it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A great deal for the speech, Mr. Jónasson's son. As we know, members of Congress, especially the left green, will be talking about personalization. Because I remember, I'd like to mention to the senator that the current government kept the dental contracts that the previous government had regarding subsidies. The agreements made with dentists each year divided hundreds of millions of dollars. Now they're all independent, but certainly it's the health field. Would the senator want to back out of this arrangement and start a stately dentist? Let's figure out the twin skin in the case of a left man on these health issues. It is full of private health care services in the country and was established in many of these ways during the time of the last government. We're talking about a physical therapist, for example, but the problem is always with these same agents who constantly curse the arrangement that we Icelanders have decided to go this fine, mixed way. Here, too, are the rehabilitation centers, such as Smokejong, and the National Health Institute for Health in Whos. Does the senator really speak of us leaving this arrangement, that it will all be statehood and all at the expense of the state? The quality of the budget is always up to the point that we are the bad people who are going to use all health care for personal development. A respectable president. I refuse this argument because the reconstituted course is the policy of the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u33	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start by praying to the highest level. Mr President to see that I shall be reassigned. Do I want to get out of the system of independent operating doctors? No, I've reported many times that I believe that Icelanders enjoy fine cocktails in these materials. We have some private operating rooms, but the accident that occurred with dentists back then was that they left the contract. That's what has to be done, and that's what Sweden took good care of and has tried to be careful. Since they have not done so, they have tried to take it back. It is impossible to have two things at once, that the taxpayer is detracted or paid for the ministry, and then the doctors are willing to be embalmed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u34	Tooth doctors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u35	That was the case with dentists, and they're trying to back it up. That's good, and that's what we were trying to do, returning it back so that it's a whole deal, and it's a contract that would be signed on what would be paid of insurance and what would come from the patient. But they got out of this system, bad health. This is what we've been urging to be on guard. I'm not against the fact that there's some private cocaine, and it's a bad word because it's here and it's something other than private cocaine - but what's going to happen is that investors are in there and it's the novelty that's happening right now, it's getting into people who are going to make a lot of it. It is quite different from the doctor's private pizza with his own office, where he enjoys his own work. [[The president calls.]] This is a whole different system we're going into right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u36	A respectable president. I'm going to ask you for the same thing as the man who spoke before me, to put me on the rosary because it's started here a sort of language or speech, you can see, so I'm asking that I be put on the rosary. Well, then it's just better to join the party. That's cool. In answer to what? paritaprevir The counties of Jónasson's son will always follow: 'en we were going to do this, we were about to change this, and so, unfortunately, because of them, they were going to do it. You see, it's the proprietor. The left greens were in the government for four years during the last term, the Conspiracy for six years, and so it's always said, "We're going to do this, but we didn't do it. For example, the United States was going to change the fishing system, adopt an expiration policy in the fishing industry, which was about to do so but did not have time to do so. Still, she was in the government for six years. I'm going to point out another hypocrisy in the lawsuit of these parties, a respectable president. It speaks a lot about the current government taking away a wealth tax that was no more than a property tax, but it had to be found a negative enough word on this tax form in the left government so that the rich could be said to pay more money to society. A respectable president. When this wealth tax was so successful, it became the worst for older citizens who were sitting in very large possessions that were not sold for the collapse of the bank. There they were stripped of their livelihood. Of course, the wealth tax was temporary, and it was a decision made by the former government. Of course, the current government did not pass that way, although the left classes now criticize the government for not going that way. It's such a twin, a respectable president. The left government temporarily placed the wealth tax. He was to be taken care of for only two years, and now the cry is: Where is the wealth tax? The government is just thinking about the rich.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u37	V.E.G. President. Those last words were true. The government is just thinking about the rich. I think we're right next door. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. The government of the first government was going to do many things, but they did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u38	Figured.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u39	We've changed the tax system in the same direction. We were going to, and we did. I remember my first task when I entered the Department of Health in February 2009 as a member of the Independence Party had decided on it. We were going to, and we did. That's the fact. With the wealth tax, I can tell you what. A senator's discussion was about extending him but by changing him, by fixing various disorders that were counted on the system in the spirit as sharp. A senator points out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u40	A follow-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u41	It's not a follow-up, it's just a reality. I'm telling the truth. I'm telling you about the discussions that took place, but I'm sure there'll be more discussions with the discussion when the chairman of the legal committee suggests that we take a fresh discussion on this subject today. I've been here all day and can come here all the time and, of course, I'll be there. Mr President, let me take advantage of that right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to approach this discussion about the budget in a way that's not been done. First, I'd like to go to a career in which the secretary of finance of every government recommends the budget of any finance minister, likely of any sort, wherever he stands, with other stewards and officials, the presidents of the institutions, and the work procedures that we follow. V.E.G. The secretary of finance gives the budget bill a 1st. There, members of Parliament, both government and government, comment on what is lacking in the law of law, what may need to be changed, what the priorities of the ruling governments are, and what the issues of the government or the lesser part of the council would have liked to be seen in the budget. Then the budget bill goes to the 2nd. or to a financial committee that reviews the current criteria. The committee calls for reviews, brings in guests, and the discussion is under way. More often than not, it has been this way since I came in here in 2007 and until today, between the 1st and the 2nd. has made significant changes, and it appears that neither institutions, institutions, ministers, or members of Congress view the budget as a set to be seen, because billions enter the budget between 1 and 2. and they negotiate this and the other. Then the law of 2nd comes through. It has been so during this terms, as well as in the last two, that between the 2nd and 3rd are added. and more often than not because political debates arise here about who can do the best for this group or the other. Then the budget is over with 3rd. which law of the Council in exactly the same way as any other law; the statute of penalties, health care laws, university laws, museums, and any other laws in this country. There are a number of things that have been breaking the law all along. If a person violates the law of justice, they are usually punished for that offense, and some may even feel that this punishment is not sufficient for the violations of the law and that it calls for greater punishment against the violations of penalties. A respectable president. No one would think of talking on the same line about the budget. It is equally likely to violate the budget adopted by the Council after the 3rd. and drinking water. There is no cabinet minister, whether in this government or in any former government, and few of the institutions who respect the laws of the law. It's like that, and it's been like that. I have the hope that with a bill on government law it won't be like that. This disrespectful attitude, which most people, if not all, show indistinguishable laws from the World Council of Churches, have always followed, and lack of discipline has always been shown in the way of money. This is no new truth, but we in general are not discussing these terms when we are here discussing the budget. These are extras. It's a possible law to come in on my own because of two things. If it were, then, that the money fund was underestimated by the change in income that will be the year to enter the budget because there is something that is likely to be unseen, and in the sheepfolds, we should be dealing with natural disasters or something completely unseen and have suffered severe damage to the government box. That's all the money should be on, that's all. There should be no special minister's pet project to be seen in financial contributions. There should not be repercussions due to a plan of any joint which was predictable in terms of financial support. There's nothing to be seen in any of the budgets except the two things I mentioned, in my opinion. You can disagree with that. A respectable president. We'll discuss the two-year budget here. and is called for even further changes in budgets between 2 and 3. O.T., because some people see that there's a table for the table and it's right to do this or the other because it's a table for the table. If a table is served, the money should go down debt and reduce the financial burden of a government fund so that we can use the money that we make in order to do better in what it calls the most. But we're not talking about it. We're now in 2nd. Monuments to consider how we can improve. The collective agreements made in 2015 were not predictable in December which we did in December 2014. The agreements with doctors and collective agreements made in the public market or in general markets were not predictable. I know from my previous jobs that when a collective contract is available, in the rural budget, no amount in the budget of each year is generally expected because it has been called a hint of how much pay can be raised and how rural areas could possibly be involved. These events are true for unforeseen events in 2015 and should be addressed in financial assistance. In spite of this, history is not entirely true, since then we will receive the final financial law. It is more often than not, so the final law does not rhyme with what was finally agreed on in financial funds. Then we have laws that are legal. We've got money that's legal. Then come finals, which are also laws, and the picture is still changing. It is absolutely clear in my mind that the financial administration in Iceland, and I care exactly what classes you represent in the government, such as the financial administration of governments, has been since the fact that no doubt the oldest men remember. If so, it will not change whether it is good or the opposite. The work force, the attitude of counsellers, presidents, and members of Congress is the same. It is only natural to ignore the laws, the laws, or the financial laws. A respectable president. To be honest with you, I am afraid, although we are going to face up to the Christmas law on government finance, that as long as the advancement of those in charge and handling the government's finances, whether ministers or members of the council, members of Congress, will not be significantly changed, the law on public finances will not change. This is the fundamental thing in my mind that we sit here, those who serve as ministers in the government for their councils, and those who are hired as presidents throughout the country have to change and change. We can't afford to do that type of work anymore. It is absolutely clear that families who conduct themselves in a financial way always spend excess of what the family earns sooner or later on on on hope. Families will be bankrupt, families will lose homes, and all that they have, because the way in which they walk is the same as in the governments, the generals, the members of the council, and the financial affairs of the state. But neither ministers, nor presidents of the institutions, nor members of the council, ever have to be personally responsible for the way we are handling the budget. There we are, members of Parliament, ministers, and directors of the institutions, often not on foot. However, the family who shares their view of financial matters with those groups pays off. Is that fair? No, of course, it is not fair that those who handle public funds are rarely responsible, but families and individuals who manage their own money will always have to shoulder responsibility. I think, a respectable president, in general discussion of budgets, funding, which, hopefully, will be a thing of history, except the failure of unforeseeable events that no one can handle and must react, must become a change of mind. We can stand here and take the opinion of the greater part or the smaller part, using basic opinions that vary depending on where we are, but that changes to my mind exactly because the basic idea is wrong. We can stand here and discuss the lack of money from the social security system to the poor and older citizens and there's a table in the budget to reinvent payment, we can talk about it. And we can discuss it as a possible variable in things unseen. We do not, however, simply because there is a table for each other. A respectable president. Finally, we wait for a change to come here at the highest level. Governments and more of it. It's a legal committee and a new proposal for my part at that point. The budget board and we'll be going to the 2nd. next week. Then, in November or December 2016, the same song will begin to add to that, as we shall remember again, as we look at, stands here in a discourse of financial contributions because ministers, presidents, and members of Congress do not respect a solidarity law from the General Assembly. After all, the establishment of an organization from a set of billions to the institutions of the Agency is to be adapted to whatever amount it is. I don't know an institution, a respectable president, who doesn't say every time a country's budget is made or the government's budget is made: I need more money. I never remember in my time as a mayor or mayor that it wasn't heard. Nevertheless, the institutions went along well. This straggler must be removed. A respectable president. It will be interesting to watch how wind goes in 2016 on the budget that we will soon agree with next week as well as on the budget, each wind in 2016, whether we're still on the same bikes or whether we've done what we should do: to get out of those bikes and respect the laws established by the Allied Council of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She considered the procedure that is being followed, and it is customary to follow up on the legal process, as well as to show that there would be a change if we agreed to the public financial bill. I can say a lot of things in a talk. A senator, but I can't agree that it doesn't matter which government we're in, that we always bring along, as well as a large box of money supplies. That's not true. It is shown well in the budget bill on page 18. 46 what evolution has been like. The project is presented from 1998 to 2015, and on average from 1998/2008, there were variations of primary spending, except for irregular joints, as stated in the bill, 5% with financial support. However, after a collapse, the average values from 2009 to 2015 are about 1.5%. True, these allowances are only over that average, so hopefully we are not keeping in the direction of the previous time in this regard. Hv. A senator did so well with the purpose and purpose of the law and what is expected of us according to the letter of the law. Today, there are many suggestions for setting up more funding for tourism and road construction. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has done so here at the Senate Hall when we agreed on the 2015 budget, although everyone had known that money would later have to be placed in budgets. [[The president calls.]] What does it want? A senator would say that when men accept funding that they know will not be enough for the jury? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I have to say, I don't really care if it was 5%, 1998,2008 or 1.5%, 2008,2015. Surely this is a change for the better, and hopefully we're on our way, hopefully going along with the government bill. Yet, all funds have been in such a way that it has not been merely incarcerated. Not once in a single budget bill has it been observed that people have been responding only to the unforeseen occurrences. The situation has been better since 2008◯2015, and that's a good thing, and it's probably because we're standing them down in the halls of collapse. It all fell apart. As a result, there was even less compromise. It's sad to see and know that when there's more to it, when the government fund has more to play, the budget is bigger than when we have less money to play. That too is a story, a dignified president. I spoke earlier in my speech, and I'm going to let that be the answer to it. A senator asks me: The institutions are required to apply the terms of the budget and the laws set in it. It is then the responsibility of the government that decides to reduce or impair service in a way that does not include enough funds. But this is not because it should be predictable that something far more than is expected to be done according to the law. That's how I look at the budget, the respectable president and the what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u45	Mr. President. There is now a much difference between 5% and 1.5% in this context, showing that we are on the right track, which, fortunately, we are not at the place where we want to be compared. [[Up front.]] We certainly need to improve in our plans. I'm sure I'm looking at our last budget and looking at the mistakes we made then and trying to make sure we don't fall into the same piece of shit again. It's like this experience that's in these sheep's books. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament: Can it not agree that while the doctors and private health care centres in these budgets are being replaced, it would have been appropriate to do the same for public health care and hospitals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u46	A respectable president. I believe that those contracts made with independent operating doctors are bullshit. They simply have to record and negotiate again; they do not walk. Yes, I can quite agree, Mr. Honorable President, that if you can provide from state funds to professional doctors, money can be given in return to the government. But I want it to appear here, a respectable president, that although I see the opinion that more people can offer medical services and medical services than the public, I am, in principle, the opinion, like my group, that the whole medical system should be funded by taxes and people who need the service to be able to obtain it regardless of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u47	President. Thank you. A senator learns a speech and a fine review. I agree with her in many things, as we often do in our conversations, but I would like to say that I wonder when it takes a lot of water in the years and that it is widely spread throughout the system that perhaps it is not to be respected, that it is prevalent among the heads of state, in councils and elsewhere. We can clearly see that we are on the right path, and we were affected by the economic collapses, and it was evident that these issues were taken in a very strong way. We are still at the point where the anomaly is considerably less than we had used to during the long periods of the crash, of course. After our heads, we'll dance and we'll know what we've got under the jurisdiction and then the Ministry will see that we're models for the institutions that look to us with the seriousness of what we do ourselves. We'll discuss this afternoon's public finances, where we're going to try to get a better grip on all of these events, but at the same time we're going to minimize the overall financial authority by making decisions in the middle of the year, such as some 850 million for the travel-offs and then taking up considerable money for road construction in the middle of a year, where it actually takes place, of course, in advance of the approval of the General Assembly, not to take care of 10 million, but substantial funds that were anticipated and several times that were prepared. I want to ask you why. Senator: What message are we sending to the institutions simply by these specific decisions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We're simply sending them a very bad message. This process of working as well as other government ministers who are working in this way is not acceptable according to the financial laws. It doesn't matter to me, Mr. Honorable President, when I'm discussing fundamental questions that I think we need to answer whether they're ministers of my tribe or Ministers of the Future, Left Green, United States, or any group. This is not an acceptable behavior. People don't respect the law, and we're talking about respecting the law. If Ministers have failed to anticipate funding and not institutions in discussions with the Ministers on funding to do the job, then the works simply, in my opinion, a respectable president, have to wait. That's the way the process should be. Thus, the decisionmaking should be within governments as well as with institutions and then with members of Congress. It's a wrong process, a respectable president, and I reiterate that in the basic questions I was wondering up here, it doesn't matter to me what categories are in the government while the process is in the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u49	President. Hv. A senator traced the role of a budget and reviewed it well and attributed nothing to it except what was unseen or would arise for inevitable reasons because of unforeseen occurrences, etc., as stated in very clear financial laws. That's where I agree. Senator. But then again. A senator said in a speech that people may disagree about this, I disagree because people can disagree about it because the way it is is is clearly stated in the law. However, she attributed the uniqueity to collective agreements, i.e. when this type of event is unseen, it is not appropriate to show the cards, as I think it is. A senator said so. Due to the collective agreements, there is an increased need and this is the result of reevaluation of the salary bases for 2015 which has taken place in excess of what was expected on budgets due to increase in labour contracts. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator will discuss whether it is a completely comparable case in terms of the groups that we hear under us in terms of the ideals of those who are desperate and the elderly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u50	A respectable president. That's how these groups work. A member of the United States gives up and adds up to the desperate and older citizens who are in pensions, pensions, or basic pensions, and income - related pensions from a social insurance agency, that I believe their terms are not bound to collective agreements made on public markets or public markets. On the other hand, I believe, a respectable president, that no one wishes to get sick, and we have to look ahead so that the desperate will benefit from the overall insurance system, such as this, that they can support themselves financially. I feel that it is different with that, a respectable president, and I allow myself to say, at the age of my age, having paid in the pension fund for 30 to40 years, to watch in order that most of the adults today have income from a pension fund, they come first, but pensions from the social security system are additional and not necessarily to be a retrospective, respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u51	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter for sharing in this discussion because we've been calling a lot of calls for having a conversation with the management of a bill for financial support, dealing with that exchange, and now possible. A senator. But I hope it's not the decision of an independent party that she'll only talk but no one else, because I, for example, do speak. is very excited about what happened. The vice president of the legal committee, the God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson, is having a discussion, and we can have a conversation with him on a number of factors. But thank you, and I can agree with many things. A senator said that the law of the law is from the Council, and it must be followed like any other law in the country. There must be exceptions and corrective measures, not e.g. that already the highest. A travel minister is reassigned with a natural pass bill, an historic proposal, is assembled at a government meeting and said: "Now it's gone, and then we have to put 850 million into it, and it's coming to the council at this time to agree. So I can say things like that. A senator said. What I want to ask you. A senator is what I've talked about here many times, i.e. retrospective payments for the elderly and disability, as are the few other members of society who have made bargains. Why are older ones not paid retrospectively and desperate? This bill provides a budget of 3.5 billion for the joint's financial resources, called unpredicted expenses, so it covers 9.5 billion, and this increase is due to the collective agreements that have been made, as explained in an explanation. Since then, this will be shared with the institutions who have to pay more this year. My question to why. A senator is simply this: Why have members of an independent party and a forwarding party failed to bring up the issue that the elderly and the desperate will also receive their pay remuneration in the way that goes and takes place in the rest of the society?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u52	A respectable president. I thank the senator and want to say that there was no decision made by the House of Independence that the one here should be alone in talking about the budget, that it is free for all members of the Parliament to feel that they have something to say. About what question? The senator, in part, came into it in my answer to what. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. I view the Allied council as having to take care of and arrange for the ideal microorganism that has not chosen to be among them to be such that an invalid is able to provide for himself. But I do believe that when we face it, for example. That a single mother with two children, a teacher to do 100% work, bare less than a single mother, an invalid with two children, should not be given. I believe that those who do a full - time job should enjoy its fruitage, but we are supposed to make the adjustments so that those on the other side can live a decent life. We have a moral obligation to do so. However, I reiterate what I said earlier. A number of elderly ones now have paid in a pension fund for 30 to40 years, and they have a table there if we can put it that way. So I don't think that, a respectable president, the way that old age pensions or basic pensions from an insurance institution are supposed to be repetitive in general, that's not my opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u53	V.E.G. President. I thank you for that answer, and I'd love to have more time to discuss it further and go through it because, of course, there is a great need to discuss this whole system. Like what? A senator talks about them we know that when people go to pensions, let's just say that people our age, who have been paid in a pension fund all their time, they get a lot of damage, they just stand by the 35 or 37 you. K. which are basic pensions. All this money from the pension fund's gonna cut it down, but it's not gonna happen to micro-piercs. Hence, it is a very reasonable matter that the elderly and the desperate do not remain, and that is what I intend to ask. A senator in the back. It is the very nature of the budget that responds to collective contracts where all have been distributed retrospectively from the release of treaties. Then it will be with everyone and be expected to pay the financial expenses of the institutions, but the elderly and the desperate will remain. Then the question is, Why on earth do the government groups go in the way of not accepting it and not accepting the fact that the elderly and the desperate are going to get it over again like everyone else? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's only fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u54	A respectable president. I answer again, as I answered earlier. Negotiation payments from the social security system and the payment of basic pensions or pensions from the social security system are not bound to contracts on the public market. There are certain reasons why they should be raised, and according to them, we must go, those who place laws there. It's in the 2016 budget bill that I'm holding 9.7% rise to disability as well as my pension. However, we can manage, a respectable president, whether this dollar number is sufficient for us to approach what we most may wish the poor to live a decent life and support themselves with disability. But I don't think, a respectable president, that the same law should apply to paying from the social security system as it is on the free market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u55	Mr. President. I'm going to give my second speech in this matter, especially to review the matters that I didn't get to review in my speech here yesterday. There I made the very nature of the amulet a subject. The quality of my body is directly referred to in the introduction of the bill, to the role of the budget, and to how it is defined in the State's budget. It makes it very clear that budgets in budgets are primarily designed to address unavoidable issues, particularly in the case of unannounced incidents; the influence of new labour agreements or new legislation, not for plans for new projects, increased scope of activities, or, for example, the management of the individual institutions over the set budget, is recommended in the law to refer such recommendations on the changes in budgets for the next year's budget. Yesterday I mentioned some examples of this material and, of course, included the majority of its members, especially with Telenor, which is what we could call the classic subject of a budget but is not supposed to be on tables year after year. I mentioned the music school, where it is very important that there is a clear vision for the future as soon as possible, and then I also mentioned the tourist service. I am shocked, however, that the majority also mention these matters but specifically suggest that what protected the tourist resort, the tourist economy, has been presented in our budget as a role model for the greater part of them. There's also the Roadmaker, and that's what I couldn't go over here yesterday. Mr. President. It is worth considering that when it comes to the tourist market, it was tore to the point of being warned, not only on budgets for 2015, but before 2014. The minority repeatedly pointed out, in discussions about the budget, that there was a gross lack of money there. In those tips - warnings, whatever we call them - they did not listen. That's why we're now getting a suggestion for a massive injection in the tourism fund of 850 million people. K.; nearly a billion are installed into the fund of construction, which everyone could have realized would require more money, since it is a basic fund to discuss with the country's largest exports at this time, the tourism. I reiterate what I've said before that there has to be a future, a clear course to be formed. I'm not sure that a newly founded agency for public money, i.e. The administrative center, the server, helps make this film simpler because we have various agencies to deal with tourism policies, and we still do not have a clear view of how people earn money in travel services. There's something else I wanted to talk about, and it's transportation. Here's $1,300 million. K. ... tothePresidentoftheReducation of the Roads. I learned yesterday that this has been called for a transport program - a transport program was even submitted before two councils and has been put into operation. The Environment and Transport Committee did not complete that development - and then it was requested that the Committee could even do some overtime, we can say, before the next transport program is submitted. That breadwinner was not attacked, and a new transport program was not identified. What concerns me, Mr. President, is that we have been given funds, no doubt on a good project, without a discussion at the General Assembly; neither at the Council nor at any time. Environmental and Transport Committee. This has not been done in a legal legal process that the budget for transport should be established by accepting a transport plan. I'm beginning to wonder, Mr. President, in view of the fact that now the plan is to engage in other transport policies: we have a legal process, and there comes a policy of transport to shape the transport program proposed by the Minister for the Council. The Parliament takes such a wide coverage of that matter, and they know it. Senators who have come to these matters that include representatives of the local community, made adjustments, and tried to keep the process as democratic as possible. However, there is now the ultimate possibility. The Minister of Internal Affairs is going to go to more extensive or broader policies, have requested representatives working to make some kind of transport white book. It may be that there is a process other than that already stated in the law, but I still feel that it is quick to turn back while the law is not following how to determine the money for transportation, during the course of time. Congress officials are not given the opportunity to discuss transportation. I allow myself to say that I don't get so many letters because of any other language or transportation. Of course, all the matters we deal with are important and relevant to the public in the country, but the reason for all the letters I receive is mainly that people are asking where the transport program is. Where's the plan? Is this to be expected, is it still in force that the last development of a never - approved transport program? Will that be adjusted during the council? Uncertainty is absolute, Mr. President. Although I have no doubt that what is suggested here is very important, these matters have not been handled in a reasonable way. The highest question has been asked. Minister if the plan is on its way, I did it last myself this spring. Then the plan was on its way, but it's December and there's no plan here for the council. On the other hand, you learn of more extensive consultations, a different sort of consultation, a general policy to be a foundation. I'm asking, Mr. President, am I going to wait for agents to be designated in some sort of reference field as an elephant so that I might only drop a little, on the key levels of transportation while not going to follow a legal procedure? Is that so? Perhaps it would be reasonable to call for a special discussion on the location of the transport program and why these matters cannot be adhered to. At least I find it very strange that in the absence of the Commission's obligation to plan a legal strategy - the council has not had the opportunity to perform its legal duties and to complete the discussion of transport plans - we are left with the fact that there are over a billion of the budgets available here on budgets. Of course, this does not belong, of course, to the budget of each year. We should have a clear schedule that will guide us in how money is spent at any given time. We shouldn't have to deal with these matters for financial aid. Mr. President. This has to do with what I was discussing here yesterday, the sad fact that we wrestle with that within the framework of the budget - less than within the framework of the budget, but also there - there are some political decisions that are being infiltrated without adequate democratic discussion. Perhaps it calls for a special discussion, not necessarily here in this hall, but at the scene of the council groups, about how the council is left in a decision - making situation like this. The Environment and Transport Committee is left behind. She is not doing her legal job, she is not reviewing the priorities of the Commission and the Road Building. Her role is more to wait for the executive authority than, for example, during the time, to negotiate public transportation in the capital area. During the rain, ask questions about whether this road or the other is available, whether the final schedule is still valid. The sheepfolds say they're not in effect yet, because the budgets are rather drossier than the ones we last saw. I make a comment to the work of saying that the priorities of transportation are not being discussed in the normal places. It is not good for the Commission to have informed them. The legal committee on their plans for these matters, which are rightly mentioned in a grey area. It is certainly polite and kind, but it does not work that the law is not followed, as in this case. I'll make a big comment about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u56	President. This is a very important point. A senator comes in, and this is another example of how it is decided on budgets that cannot be discussed at the council. I think it's a bit much in the history of this government, maybe a few years earlier, before I came to the council, I was here just for the last term. It's a total disrespect for the council. The Congress has nothing to do with it, and the government decides something, and then it's natural to use the budget to do it, and I don't talk about it when a man can drive 15 billion or so into the budget, because it was inaccurate to pay money. You can think, as noted earlier, if it is possible for people to want to have money in there because of money money money. Then I also wondered, and I could believe that people were wondering that we've been talking a lot about the tourist place and 850 million who're going to go to it, though not until people asked themselves, " But what if this money wasn't in the house if everyone knew about it? ' I'd like to pray. A senator is wondering if it doesn't matter, even if everyone knows as they say they're going to bring in a financier. Still, is it not important to comply with the right rules on how to determine the financial resources of the State?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u57	Mr. President. Now we're on the agenda after 3rd. on official financial matters, the law should replace the State's budget, and it makes it very clear that funds are not intended to be used for this purpose or in this way. We've also seen that in the years after the collapse at least there was very little need for financial compensation, so I feel that we're back in the place where we're putting money in lawsuits that were entirely and rightly at home in financial terms. I've wondered about the reasons for this, and it seems to me that there's a problem with policy. Whether in transport or in the case of tourism, there has been a problem in policy development that makes it not a normal strategy to be taken into account in terms of a certain amount of money being taken into the budget and the following steps are taken. Does matter, does it? paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, in view of the fact that everyone seems to have had some feeling that they needed some extra money? First, it matters, because it's not a good job, and the rest of it agrees with us. But secondly, it's important that it's a natural unpleasant situation, whether for those people who apply for grants or for parties who directly carry out government projects like the Vega program, that they can't make normal plans, they can't count money, they'll be in some limbo to probably get something on the approval of a budget in December of the same year. Of course it's not okay, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u58	President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir mentions special expenses for road and transportation, and I'm not right, a respectable president, maybe I should pray. A senator explaining to me that the funds are now being distributed on four roads, including some of them. A dress ticket and around Kappos, and a transport plan is totally overlooked? Now no one doubts that this road needs to be fixed, but does it not have to be done again according to the rules we have set here? Then I have to admit that I may not have followed well enough or that I have missed something, but what. According to one U.S. senator, transportation is a white book. I haven't been paying close attention to these matters, Mr. Honorable President, but is there any problem with the challenge of putting aside a road plan? Well, maybe. A senator would straighten this out for me? Should this not be so, then, that there should be headaches and priorities in transport, and that should be discussed in a Senate Hall? Or are they going to move it into a ministry or a back room or to a ballot meeting or what's going on, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u59	Mr. President. First only on these projects. You're right next door. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir is that these are four ways. It's Kappres Road, It's Queen's Road, i.e. Route 48, Cold Valley and Uxams is 52, if I remember correctly. Of course, it does not have to be surprising that this road has to be fixed, that we have been with them for discussion, that they have come across a transport program, and that they have been discussed many times, and that it is clear to all who have driven this road that there is a great need in these places. What I do naturally is that it was totally predictable that it had to deal with this road. As a result, it would have been desirable for us to have discussed it on the right ground, on the council, on the environment and on the transport committee, and for us to have an approved transport programme, as I am in no doubt that these roads had been among the projects that would have been set up there. I don't think it's possible to argue that it's unpredictable in any way, that's just the way it is. I think this is a sign of poor planning, and that is, of course, what happens when people don't follow legal procedures and they don't agree to a transport program at the council. Perhaps it is to draw attention to the extent to which the transport program has been proposed. As for a white book on transportation, which I witnessed to earlier, it is at the top of the world's highest level. Minister, she's interested in other policies. The strategy is, of course, a plan for implementation, where we're just going to accept 10 miles here and three miles there. This refers to a more general policy, which will be called among the members of the body of members, recruitment, administration, stakeholders in some form of greater policy consultation. The reason I drew it up is that I find that I find that being started on another process while there is not even a legal procedure on how we should pursue our transport policies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u60	A respectable president. The recent progress in the arms of police cars is due to the discussion I have now requested at the highest level. Minister of state. First, I want to say that it is exemplary in the highest ways. In general, the Minister of State has approached questions about the arms of the police by the official release of regulations on the use of force and the arms of police last year and by how open she has wanted to discuss it. It is very important that the environment in this respect, for in the same way that weapons can increase the safety of the citizens and protect the police can also increase risks to the public as well as to police officers, to reduce safety and not to increase safety. They can call for a harder world. They may call for harsh reactions from criminals, and there is no question that we all experience security when we see heavy - armed police officers. In the recent discussion, it seems that decisions were taken to place weapons in a number of police cars here in the capital area and to train public police in their baits, and the changes in automobile equipment were due to a final stage when the media reported it. I don't think it rhymes with the emphasis I believe that this is the most important thing to me, i.e. A state of arms transpiration and force clearances, and that everyone knows how the pot is finished in this regard. I welcome the statements I've seen from the highest. Secretary of the media that this is not a change in the general arms of police officers, but the scope and basis for these decisions are far unknown. That's why I've been asking for this discussion. The law needs to be questioned, because it's 19. The regulations published indicate that there should be firearms at a police station, but a police officer can decide, in particular, that handguns should be held in a police car. I find it questionable in the highest way that the rules allow regular firearms to be placed in police cars. The question also needs to be asked: What is the basis for this change? For interviews at the highest level. A minister in the media can say that this is part of a response to the events in Outey 2011. What, then, is the basis for this analysis? What consideration of the police scene has taken on the basis of experts, as to what dangers are we trying to cope with this change? I think it's inevitable that such information is available to everyone. You might also wonder: " What is the best response to growing danger? Is it especially an increase in the use of weapons by police, especially when we now live under the circumstances that police are growing alone in a car, which must also offer dangers? Or is the solution perhaps more visible law enforcement? Any more cops on the street? The better use of law enforcement in that way? An increase in law enforcement? That's all the questions we need to discuss, not jump to conclusions. It is very important, too, when we face an increasing threat of terrorism in neighboring countries, that we determine with careful management what might be done, but the facts need to be on the table and on the analysis to be clear, and in particular, we need to be discussed here at the Council on this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u61	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion, and overture the fundamentals. Public law enforcement is unarmed in its activities, there is no change. No decision is either available on the increase in police arms. That's what matters. On the authority of the police to use power, the 1996 police law reports that police must never go further in the use of power than is needed at any time. Moderate measures should be taken. In arms laws, a minister is asked to set up regulations about the arms of the police and their use, including the use of firearms. Such rules were set in 1999. This includes the treatment, use and storage of police weapons. This puts great power into the hands of a minister. In my mind, it is clear that the policy issues such as police authority to carry a weapon must consult with the council and ensure that there is a compromise to the public. In that light, I decided to publish the rules. They set up a set framework for police arms and instruments. Clearly, these rules contain external boundaries that the police must not cross. The police must be well prepared and well trained in their work at any given time. It's the Marshal who reviews the need for each of his equipment and decides what to do with it. The chief of police has thus been assigned to evaluate the needs of police for equipment, organization, and training within the limits required by arms regulations. It is not necessary to form the product of a minister or Ministry directly to reimburse arms pay, as long as financial funds are provided by the same level of damage. The evaluation of the police's equipment needs is based on a wide range of risk assessments, which take into account the developments in the country and abroad and predict the likely future development. It is of utmost importance that these orders are known to man. Regarding the equipment at police vehicles, which leads to a discussion. A senator is now holding pistols in six police cars in the capital area. It is a small percentage of the fleet's cars that runs at tens of them. Also, there are several police vehicles in the region that already have such equipment on board. While the change in storage area is not required, the number of vehicles currently required to increase the number of cars stored in locked doors is not limited to the number of cars, but if the police consider it necessary to increase the number of cars that are kept in locked arms, so that there are not only special cases but, rather, closer to being a general rule, they will try very hard at the level of these rules, because the outer limit to be interpreted is narrow. Mr. President. The use of power must never go further than is needed at any time. The principle is fundamental, and it is vital that we be balanced in the handling of power. The police must always honor the moderate order in carrying out their work. Emphasis. One source of information for the public and the Generals is a member of this discussion. I believe that information should be published. This is always more beneficial, and we should be guided by it. Some of the tasks the police performs are the nature of a matter that cannot be spoken publicly. The decision, however, is not one of them. It would have been better if the authorities had offered more information. The discussion was started so that people could think that the arms would be increasing. I am not surprised that people have reacted to it. It is urgent that the public and all of us understand what's happening so quickly that we know it's bad, especially for the law enforcement in our country. V.E.G. President. The difference must be made whether the police are authorized to carry weapons on themselves or to decide whether to transfer storage sites from a police station to a car where they are as safe as an officer's approval in order to open their doors in emergency situations, just as they are now. This is very important. Once again, we're not talking about an increase in weapons. Iceland's police have no weapons at all, and we want it to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u62	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years for taking up this matter, and I would like to say at the outset that I agree greatly with the emphasis on his presentation. In fact, I see reason to celebrate also the highest emphasis. A minister who says that here we are not witnessing a change of direction; she cannot see that a general policeman will have a weapon. That's what I like to hear. It is very important that these matters be held in agreement, that the discussion about them be open, and that is something to the highest degree. A minister has shown that she wants to be. Earlier this week, the News magazine discussed the arms of the police, linking him to work protection and quoting from the Eyþór Víðisson of law enforcement, which says, by permission of Presidents: The law and work protection have increased the responsibility of employers. Employers should do anything to ensure the safety of their employees. The increasing access to weapons is a major concern to the safety of police officers. This may be true in some way, but not all of it. I agree with a saying: The way to support the police is to give more money to her to promote the law enforcement force. I have often stressed that I have wanted to face the reality that after the collapse, we go down to law enforcement about 3 billion a year. And it's wrong that it made up. There was a transnational conspiracy to correct this, and this should be done because a weak police officer with weapons in his hand is a dangerous police officer. [[The president calls.]] But we all want it, and I think it's a rich transnational support at the World Council will strengthen the general law enforcement force in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u63	A respectable president. I want to start by moving on with the missing page and counting as long as possible. Jónasson I think it's a general transnational will here at the General for the promotion of law enforcement, that there should be priorities. I've heard that in a lot of people. I always find it a little hard to talk about law enforcement. I'm no expert when it comes to law enforcement and the police. In fact, I want these matters to be handled so that decisions about the police equipment and how they work are made by those who know the most about environmental disasters and how the country is in that area. I want to be able to trust the police. Police work may well need to be supervised, as some have stressed. It's important to discuss the work of the police in this room. I'm glad there's been some official weapons policy. It eliminates suspicion. I'm also glad that there's a parapolitic emphasis on the fact that public law doesn't have weapons in Iceland and won't be. Then all I ask is that police arms decisions be taken on a professional basis, that they are based on some danger assessment, and that state's transpiring the use of these weapons. The police have not been armed. Of course, it has had access to weapons, and we know well that one thing that can come up with law enforcement has to be dealt with with by hand with firearms. Then we have to live with the police so that they can handle the problem. [[The president calls.]] So we are never talking about a lack of weapons, but neither are we talking about weaponsization. I really think it's a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u64	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the advocate for putting this important matter into the program. The fact that America's police have always been armed is clear to all of us, as is the attitude of the majority of us to live here free and at peace. Rules on the treatment and use of power tools and weapons have been published. These include government policies on how to treat, how to use, and how to store the weapons of the police. It says, for example, that a firearm is kept in locked mills or in a position at a police station. However, the chief of police may decide to have his pistols in a police car we have a special case. One part of the police'work out of the country is the accident of an animal. In addition, in my district, it is boring to drive a reindeer, often on large groups. The occurrence of such accidents can be devastating, since animals often suffer severe pain and suffering. Under such circumstances, it is not acceptable to travel long distances in order to get weapons to execute afflicted creatures. I suppose it is generally acceptable to have firearms in police cars for this purpose, but I do not assume that circumstances such as these are of high concern to many at the level of security. Nevertheless, this reality is worth keeping in mind, for on all things there are several aspects of life. The world will change, and we must adapt to it to the extent we accept. The one standing here is strongly opposed to being armed by the police in their daily activities, and it embraces the view that all regulations are strictly carried out. The nature of the matter according to the police work there are some things that cannot be revealed, but certain factors need to be revealed in order to maintain trust. Our understanding of what is happening must be shared, for all of us want to trust in the free and secure community in which we live.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u65	A respectable president. First, I'd like to remind you of the important reasons for this discussion, but it's that police authority clearances are officially released as it is now, thanks to the highest degree. Minister of the state, and should be especially grateful for that. It is worth remembering specifically that now we can talk about it. Here is a material discussion of Article 19. The rules, and the discussion started immediately in the introductions of the moment. Foreman. People are shocked by the planned changes that have been made in the media because of what happened last time guns came to talk here when 150 MP5 firearms were to be bought and even put in cars according to some of the things you heard. All discussions were very unconvinced. It was inaccurate, even misleading, whether it was on purpose or not, whether it was here at the council, with the police, or anywhere. The discussion now is much more measured and more accurate, and I dare say less, for it is much easier to change now than last. That's how we're supposed to talk about it. We need to have the conference at the council Hall because the use of power and the arms of the police depend on a democratic agency. It must be that way in democracies and, in fact, everywhere. I find it very interesting what's at the top. The Minister of Homeland said that if it's to make it a general rule that pistols are in each of the police cars, there's a lot of police interpretations. I agree with that. But I'm glad that this discussion takes place here and now in the open field and that we can discuss it openly with our voters after these rules have been opened. I come to more points in my second speech, but thank you again to the highest degree. Minister of the state for her good response in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u66	A respectable president. Like others, I thank you for this discussion. Police defense is a matter of community life and security, but it's not the same as the police. In fact, the fact that there is no clear evidence in Icelandic legislation makes this issue seem crazy. Instead, there are rules that have now been published on the issue of arms, where a minister will deliver a power that has been given him to a state police officer, who, in part, will give up power to individual sheriffs to make arms decisions and evaluate circumstances. These rules are in very general practice. I call attention to the c- team 34. g. which allows the use of weapons to prevent major damage to social or institutions, as it says. Each man must see that this is all too widely spoken for the head of a civilian policeman to decide whether to use his gun or not. There is no indication that the Council itself does not put a legal code on such matters by means of the professional discussion and expert advice required by such legislation. It is a big, dramatic decision to appoint Icelandic police officers for increased violence on the streets, for we know that weapons are calling for the equipment of criminals that increase aggressiveness, fear, and terror in their relationships. I myself fear for the development that has now begun with increasing police arms, since it must also call for an ever - increasing and independent surveillance of the police, as the members of Congress have noted, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, and it must also require an increase in money I say in a verbal way that I'd rather have seen a flow for the greater police service, the growing police force, and their improved bums. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u67	A respectable president. Like everyone else, I welcome all the talks about the police and their jobs. The discussion will inform the community about the way the police operate and why. All of that will only ensure that the police are getting more trust. She has a lot of trust today, though. The discussion is for information and instruction on how this is so. As has been said, the public will not see heavy - armed policemen on duty as we are here. If a police officer is armed with heavy weapons, a great deal of success has been made, as shown in published arms regulations. No one is going to see heavy -armed police working after this. Then let us consider why we are in this discussion. I wholeheartedly agree with what has happened here, and I also ask: " How do we strengthen the police? Yes, by increasing the number of public police officers, increasing their exhibit, increasing evaporational care, which knows its surroundings. That's how we deal with it. At the same time as we do, and we've been setting priorities with increasing money to the police, by increasing the number of police officers, and that's the goal, we can't overlook the possibility of many dangers, and then we must also be prepared to cope with it. It is not enough to promote health care to ensure the health of the country if we do not expect it to become a group accident. Even if we are not expecting such things at any given time, we need to prepare for them. That's what's going on here. How Should We Interpret 19. par.? What is this special reason why weapons are put into several police cars, not all of them, and with strict rules? Yes, the Marshal has been trying to identify the real danger. It is difficult for the public and the authorities at any given time to recognize real danger. Therefore, all data from the State Marshal on risk analysis and weaknesses are published annually. [[The president calls.]] This danger we must realize is a special reason why the weapons need police cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u68	V.E.G. President. Like others, I thank you for this discussion that I consider very important. I have to say, I loved hearing things. Ministers insist that police officers should not be armed with public law enforcement. I also agree with what has been said here, with the greatest security involved in supporting law enforcement. I believe it applies both to citizens of this country as well as to police officers themselves. As noted above, police officers are often alone in cars. That's a lot of concern to me. Too small a police team who have access to weapons at the same time is a mixture that I think is extremely dangerous. We've talked about putting guns in six cars. The argument is to improve police response time. I'm concerned that this could lead to riveration. Of course, criminals involved in the police cannot know exactly which cars are in. I'm worried they'll react like there's a firearm in every car. I'm worried that it'll call for the next step that has to put guns in more cars and so head off your head. I reiterate what I said at the outset: The best security is to strengthen the law enforcement force. Of course, for this to be possible, the Generals must put money into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u69	A respectable president. The debate on the arms of the police that resurfaces here, in the media, and elsewhere shows that the nation is very alert to any idea of increasing police arms. I am so happy during this discussion that it seems that most people are striving to eliminate any suspicions in this regard. This does not mean that civil law enforcement is armed. All such weapons depend on clear rules. That said, I think it's important to discuss other aspects of law enforcement than weapons. I feel that this has been done lately and in this discussion. We're discussing here the need to increase law enforcement. It's simply a financial group, like so many things in our society after many years of trial. Workloads are high. We must also examine police training and equipment in other ways than weapons, automobiles, and so on. It's a whole thing to do. One of the most interesting tips on these matters was I read an interview with Karl Steinar Valsson, who I think is working for Europol right now, in the news newspaper the other day, where he said that the nature of such activities was rapidly changed. He spoke of the importance of organizational changes and changes in the way the police work. Today, criminal organizations are not limited to one object. They are not only in the man - made trade or drug import; they are doing all kinds of things at once, even using contractors to do things for them. This has become very complex and extensive, and it is important that the police make adjustments in order to approach it, not in chambers or with walls within the table, but in whole. [[The president calls.]] This is very interesting to me. I'd like to discuss this sometime, but not just a law enforcement case when there are tragic cases in a world with firearms and we'll talk about arms. We also need to discuss the equipment, training, and police arrangements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u70	Mr. President. I thank the advocate, such as others, for the need for this discussion. One thing is that we realize, the average U.S. Marshal does not want to be armed. He's not interested. He will if he is given orders in that direction, but it is not the general will of police officers to make weapons. But let us watch that Iceland has a wide range of firearms. So it would be foolish not to have a well - trained police force here that, if necessary, can take up arms. When it comes to the use of weapons from the police, it can be pointed out that in a very large number of search sites, e.g. in the capital area, in connection with organized crime, drug transport, etc., people have found an armory. Of course, we do not send police officers to fight such criminals. What happens, however, when you have a firearm in a limited number of police cars, the duration of response is reduced. If events become serious, there is no need to wait for Special Forces to arrive on the scene some minutes later. These minutes can determine the level of happiness and happiness. Let's not raise any fear of the police. You don't have to do that. Fortunately, the police have the highest trust in the people of the country and the deserving ones, and we'll support the police as much as we can. We have. The current government has spent a lot of money in a very large number of years. We need more, we need general structure and we'll do our best to strengthen the general police environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u71	A respectable president. Now I wish I had a little more time, including to answer that question. A senator who spoke before me about raising fear of the police, but I intend to avoid it because of a lack of time for now. What I think is more dangerous about the development that the police have more access to weapons or to those I know isn't here for discussion, is that anthropologists, lack of training, low wages, unfair conditions, and the like failures are still present. If they're there and they're about to increase arms - I'm not talking about what's been planned right now, but about what was in the discussion relatively recently and I assume that it's most important that we've fixed the offenders that will call for more trouble. If more officers are present, the chances of using force, especially some sort of firearm power, are less likely to be used. I agree with what. Þorvarðardóttir We should revise the law around this. Basically, police are excluded from weapons laws. Certainly a minister does take care of that, and it just so happens that right now is very, very nice. Minister of the state of it. But there won't always be such a thing. According to current legislation, if other motivations are not involved now but may occur later, they may well go into trouble. I think it is worth revising legislation in the light of the fact that there is a better law on what is permitted and what is not. Most important, I'd like to mention that the police are now meeting with what they have to say. General Education and Education Committee on their need for firearms and embargos. This is improved, but it is still lacking that the generals have a good way of relating what happens to them because they are closed. I also feel that we should have some way of participating in the decision - making even if it was just to give envelopes. [[The president calls.]] Now I don't have time for more and I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u72	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion, and thank you for the answers. Minister. It's a good thing she's explained that there's no general police armor. Even if it is limited, however, a decision must be taken and the question about what the rise in arms is called for in police cars. What will be the reaction of criminals? Will they be somebody? These are all points discussed in the public discussion, and the police must have taken their stand before this growing storage point was requested. I also celebrate the highest speech. Minister on level 19. I agree with her that there are very certain boundaries. In fact, I believe that putting weapons in regular cars is a great test of the endurance of the article and may even go beyond what it allows. In any case, we, however, agree that the same rules will be ignored. It is very important for the minister to make this clear, for it binds her hands and her successors on a throne in this regard. Then I'd like to say that I believe that there is a reason why this would be the case with the police. I believe there is a need to arrange for such a risk assessment and information to be gained in confidentiality by a General and Education Committee. It's not okay for the U.S. Marshals to know about police equipment or the danger that police feel is a social issue. This is not the case in any democratic state at the discretion of one police minister and one minister. [[The president calls.]] This is also true in all democratic countries that representatives of other political parties have to be introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u73	A respectable president. A general and educational committee will bring up a presentation to the governor's risk assessment. I think it is very important that the committee be very well informed about what is there. I also reiterate what I've already said, and I previously said in a discussion about police matters that it is very important to those who happen to know, to discuss this subject, which is, of course, a governor who, of course, is going over the foundation of what the police need to be hired, is trusted to make a decision. Of course, all of us need to have opinions about how far we should go in each case. The best thing to do is that those who know the truth have it as best they can. I reiterate what I've said to you that there are outer boundaries on these rules. How good it is to be able to discuss the rules when you see what they look like and where the line is! The Marshal has to follow the rules. He can't leave them. Of course, if a person is in doubt as to whether he is going too far, the Ministry should intervene by saying that this is not a matter of rules or rules. If such changes were to be made, it would have to be taken into account. And I want to end up agreeing with what has happened here, the affairs of law enforcement need to be shared. We're always talking about the specific aspects of it. It is clear that the debate on weapons is extremely sensitive in Iceland. We're all sensitive to her. But we need to realize that the police force must be well trained, well educated, and well prepared for all its tasks. Of course, the demonstrations of the law are of particular importance, but all of this must come about. Not only do we need to make sure that her performance is the greatest, but we need to do better there and realize that well - educated, well - trained police force is what we want. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u74	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a bill for funding for the current budget year, 2015. I'm here primarily to discuss four issues, actually all very large and important; health issues, refugees, child support, and social security. When the funds are read and looked to by the health professionals, the deeper problems of the Icelandic medical system are reflected that we have two different systems here in our country, a private health service, and a public service. These two different business forms do not enjoy equal terms when it comes to financing. We see no evidence here that the difficult situation of the land hospital or health care clinic is being improved, which is the official organisation. The only health facility in the country to get money to build container buildings. But there is no need to improve health care during the current budget year, for independent experts, and for personal health care. The specialists who negotiate health insurance will receive less than 2 billion additional funding during an ongoing budget as the National Hospital, which has not been funded to meet the increased need for service, and has not fully received improved health-class growth in the current year, remains unsettled in the park. That's a lot of news. This is a further contributing factor to the development of an open crisis of health insurance at the expense of the public system. Then we are talking about the health care that all categories agree that there should be a basic health care system. In comparison with less than 2 billion individual expert specialists, health care is not getting anything in these budgets. And the land hospital gets nothing but arrogantly short of the greater part of the legal committee. Is that a big thing to miss for them? As I said, it's the private health care that gets something because she has special contracts for health care. Private health care in Sala City receives an additional 20 million funding for its kind of contract, and the medical department receives 46 million. K. extra deposit. It reflects the problem we face in Icelandic health systems, a problem that must be addressed and solved. It will not solve by putting everything into private business, but by taking control of the system, and by having the courage to make decisions that may be difficult and require great political leadership. I'm sorry that in the budget, the more government sector of the Annexe and Independence Party don't see their own worth in supporting an emergency hospital at a U.S. National Hospital, providing life-saving service. I'm sorry that there is no better health care providers, which are the cheapest and most accessible health services, since the institutions I listed here are taking on an increasing number of patients because of the increased need for services that are due to changing ages and population growth, but they cannot be improved as long as less controlled jobs are used. This is so that if a person comes home from school and is an expert in a certain article, he can open a room without having any analysis of the need for increased service in that area. However, we do know that there is a huge need for family health care and the services of other health - care groups and for the growth of land hospitals. But neither do we meet a need that we do not know whether is there. Mr. President. We cannot continue to treat our health system like this, a system that all Icelanders agree is that is primarily to be in public business, and should be financed by taxes, and that taxes should be established on that matter. Since we're talking about privatization, it's going to take place without having to appear before the General. We need to resolve to change that, because the transition to the community's foundation must be made to a council. The same is true of education. We read on page 8. 65 on the bill, under 516, about the high school of Hafnarfjörður. This government school was united in a private school, the High School of Technology, and it did not produce any policy discussion at the General, for the Ministry of Education has the legal authority to handle it as he wishes. That, too, must be changed, Mr. President. Iceland wants to transparent and analysis state of state-of-the-art changes in the basics of the Icelandic community, health and education system. Mr. President. Now I'm going to go over to the refugee business. I suggested here at the beginning of the council, along with most of the members of my section, a suggestion that we return at least Five hundred refugees in three years, including this year. The government responded by playing that 2 billion would be put into that group but would not mention the number of refugees we expected to receive. Now it's 775 million. K. of the 2 billion that fit over the course of two years, into the budget. I really don't like what you see there, Mr. President. What should be put in contact with refugees? Less than 10% of the money should run to the hosting of refugees. We live in unique circumstances as a result of a war situation in Syria and beyond, since Europe has not seen so much more refugee problems since World War II. And Icelanders are planning 75 million. K. ... ata snack. At the reception of the people. It's totally unacceptable. It's time for a group of people to arrive before Christmas, which is a pleasure, and that has been a good response to rural society. That's 75 million. K. To go. Then we have 250 million. K. Of the 775 million. K. To go to international institutions. That's good. It is taking action to help with the problem and to help institutions that deal with these issues near the region of the refugee problem. But then there's 450 million here. K. ... becauseofmurderers. I'm very happy that there's an addition to that party, but that's because there's an increase in the number of inmates here. In budgets of the current year, the need for money was underestimated. At the beginning of the year, money was needed to be added to the budget, but now there are 2 billion who were promised as a special response, much to be used to compensate for the sins of the government during the current budget year. It is a disgrace, and we must give more responsibility to this problem. We have a moral obligation to do so. We can't play monkey and snake games when such important things are at stake. They're waiting for the budget talk. But as far as I can see, the next year's funds to receive refugees are small enough that, in fact, it's hardly a matter of welcoming tourists except for those less than a hundred refugees. That's not acceptable at all, Mr. President. It is only hoped that the government will speak, as it turns out, that the figures are not the main points, because, of course, no one wants to reveal such a odd number, that we are going to receive less than a hundred people who flee from terrible situations with their children, hoping to get them to school and be able to earn a living in peace without fear of terrible experiences and about their lives. Although it is a pleasure to have these funds come in, they should have been much greater, for they are making up for old sins, not bringing new money to a small extent. Then we come to the child development, Mr. President. Hv. Councilmen of Harðardóttir Hardydirdótttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Brynhildur Pétursdóttir appoint a tribunal to the budget. They're totally great at their jobs, they work together, they're careful and they're kind and they're gonna turn us over to committees that are extremely helpful. That's where the smaller things go just fine over the child support. Let us remember that during the increase in food taxation in Icelandic families, the advance company was at peace, and it was difficult for him to do so. The candidates found it difficult to add spells to Icelandic homes in this pathetic way. In particular, pensioners and tenants are the most aggressive factor in the increase in food taxes. Then what was promised? Yeah, they were supposed to raise their rent money by 400 million. K. There's been a betrayal, Mr. President. Not a million dollars of that. K. has paid to counterweight the rate of increase in food taxation. There was a lie in the advance group. The parishes have been lied to by the Independence Party, and they have accepted it. The minister of the mercenaries did not bother changing the rules to return people, tenants, this 400 million. K. And have her shame. Then it's time for the baby reforms. Yes, money was to be placed in the child's settlements in order to help low income family members attend an increase in food prices. What were the consequences? Yeah, maybe there were 200, 300, 400 million. K. who returned from the 1,200 promised ones. The child's improvement is now being reduced by 600 million. K. Because the government increased the decline in the rise and thus saved a little bit of money on the most wealthy children's families. That is the priorities of the government's right government. Prime Ministers of the Sigmundur of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla. And it's nasty to see that it's a government-gain methodology when government funds are right after hard working alliances and left greens, when there's an Icelandic economy going well, it's the message to the one who should prioritize money. But the public health system, refugees, tenants, and less children's families, and I come into the pensioners afterwards, that's what's left behind, and a large part of the education system. I hope that some candidate will answer for it here in the financial or financial discussion why they have not been protecting children and tenants along with what they raised the food tax. They lied to people. If they weren't going to lie to people, I want them to come here and tell us what the reasons are, that counter-improvement to a billion on food tax has not come back, while the highest paying people in Iceland, the most selling people in Iceland, and the developer gets one by one, so tens of billions of dollars. Now I'm coming to my new proposal for the money board, huh? Women of Congress I mentioned earlier. They suggest to us in the smaller part that the improvement in social security will be restored to May 1, 2015, as if the paymen were then raised in collective agreements. That's a $6.6 billion operation. It is 6.6 billion that the government is going to have from the pensioners of this country. There are disability pensioners who because of disease can't earn more than a few, and a pensioner's staff. Of course, this will be the most intense experience for those who rely solely on or much on the benefits of an insurance agency. That's a very serious group. Here we suggest that instead of the increase will take effect by next year, it will take effect from May 1, 2015. Since March 1, 2015, I would like to look in the front of the senator who was going to refuse the old people and weak people for an increase before a comparable period. It will be interesting to see how votes arise in this regard. Now let's talk about 6.6 billion, Mr. President, because what's going on? Yeah, it's going great in Iceland. Unemployed employment is low, there is plenty of work to be done, there's investments, there's build-up in the Icelandic community. This, of course, results in increased income in the wealth of the state. And only through the well-traveled taxes, which are taxes on value, goods and services, the government's tax returns this year on what, Mr. President? Yes, 6.6 billion. That is exactly what it costs us to ensure that pensioners will have a comparable period of payoffs. What, though, will the right government do? Yes, she's going to pay off debts and pay off interest costs, and that's impressive. But she is also working to reduce the extent of the State Fund in the economy. It's the difference between right and left, Mr. President, that on the left side of politics, we want a powerful government fund to finance social security, child support, interest benefits, mortgages, education systems, health systems, welfare services, and law enforcement. However, those on the right side of political affairs feel that it is more important to want less money than to reduce the general public service that benefits all of us and makes us a better and more equal society. So 6.6 billion are used, not for pensioners, but to reduce taxes on the Generals and theirs. Mr. President. It will be interesting to see here at a vote what any senators will do about these suggestions. It will be interesting to see what the forwarding group, which has betrayed children and tenants, will do with pensioners. I can't believe that they don't support these suggestions, otherwise their moral strength is even less than I ever dreamed of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u75	President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. Of course, it is very important to be careful that the political context of what is discussed here, in some estimates, is almost a formal matter in which we, who exercise the authority, are faced with the word, face what is already done by the executive authority, decisions made elsewhere, and really are decisions when all things are not within our power. Some of this could rightly be claimed to be an awesome performance, i.e. that we here, as we have to decide, to form whether there are 850 million in the tourist trade or that 1.3 billion for a new road effort, both of which are decisions that we are informed in the media and by smiling counsellers in the middle of a year, thereby completely ignoring the Allied financial authority, that I do not talk about normal policies and legal procedures such as making up a transport program. It is in itself a joke that makes you wonder about the credibility of such a job and then on the other hand, on the other hand, the high - sounding plans to promote great discipline in the government business and on the budget of public funds. I'd like to pray. A senator's stand against the contradictions we face. On the other hand, I'd like to ask the senator, because she knows a lot about both Swedish politics and the welfare status of the country, about the status of the child reform system, on the one hand, where the models are the strongest and the best, which are in the Northern countries and perhaps the highest in Sweden, and so on, how the child damage system is accomplished in the position, as we watch it today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u76	Mr. President. That was a broad question. I'd like to start by saying about the mid-year declaration on expenses that they are naturally indiscriminate with the budgets we live in, because it's totally being ignored by the World Congress funds. May we say that we experienced it very strongly when a frame plan agreed here and is a document that is a highly organized process to be followed was ignored. It was tried to destroy it, but we in the smaller part were able to prevent it. It can be said that the same about transport plans too, depending on how people plan them. But with the tourist attractions and the road, those statements will be so silent, for of course men and women knew in the budget that they had to come about. It only looks better when you put out a financial bill with a more efficient result and then come and add a little less on it, but you can still join a knight in the middle of the year. This is some kind of methodology that is extremely unfortunate and does not promote government discipline, and it is actually a failure to conceal what is happening in the state's financial affairs at one time. In the case of child reforms, in the North countries, there are general child benefits for each child, that is the State's contribution, and much less the equations within the transport range, but now the child settlement has been so severed in Iceland, that people at the minimum are neared for failure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u77	President. I'd like to pray. A senator to spend a little more time with the discussion of child reform because I have long been very concerned about how we're handling the child relief system in Iceland, and especially when it's being used, just like many other systems, to balance when it's not originally intended to be that tool. In effect, the system will be a bit messy if, in many places, all kinds of government access are being made to it. As far as I understand and I know, this piece in the North countries, where child reform is linked to the children's status or economic status, is considered to be a subject of the general tax system to adjust with transparent and just means. I think it is very important that we raise this discussion, which represents social justice and the balance of political spectrometers in Iceland, to be removed from this massive recovery of children's benefits as a result of creating a system that is in some sense more righteous, while at the same time a system that preserves the country's dress and social discrimination. I think it's a discussion that we need to keep up, and more often than we've ever done. I'd like to pray. A senator might discuss this here and maybe in the context of other types of improvement systems, but I think that the child - reform system may be what best describes these different priorities and what it really is, the core of the North American welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u78	President. I am happy to have the opportunity to talk more about the child - reform system. We in the North countries are blessed to have many children, and this does not happen automatically. Norwegian women are not so different from other women when it comes to doing so, except the circumstances we have been created are better. Both are more equal in households, and women do not have to choose between working and having children because we have a well - built play - school system, even though we want to make it up to the baby families. In the North, children's reforms have also played a vital role, since they are intended to be met within the income range. We can take two of the 400s of us. K. earns a month. One has no child, the other has three children, and it is plain that the provisions for the three children will be much smaller. Hence, children's reforms, in order to balance the benefits, and in order that those who decide to have children, are not instinctive or at the same time deciding to have a much lower standard of care, over a period of 25 to 30 years, even. The function of the child - making process is basically to ensure adequate provision while the load of living is increasing. We've changed the child - reform system into some sort of system of poor people, but poverty has to come in a different way. Right away. paritaprevir This time after a difficult time of surgery, Oddný Harðardóttir, a financial minister, began adding to the child - saving system, and she used the first opportunity to improve the child - reform system to bring it closer to the Norwegian system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u79	V.E.G. President. This is my second talk about the budget today, and it could be more than that. It's kind of hot. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the Board of Fundament, hurt me to come up here again to explain my position on health - care management plans. She listed organizations that weren't on the side of the government, and she suggested that if I wanted public business, I must be against them. The plants she mentioned were Frenchist and Smokeloaf and probably some more. I've been telling you a million times that I'm dragging my lines into the privatization of a place that's different from what I'm doing. A senator does. I distinguish between institutions that have developed from labor movements, patients such as SIBS, and are not employed in any way for profit. I distinguish between them and the fact that, for example, they are now active in the Millennium and driven by investors who intend to make money out of the work. In this, there is a fundamental difference. I also make a distinction between private doctors who run their own private pizzas. I've never been against that kind of thing. I never wanted to move the border much, I thought the cocktail we live in Iceland was okay, but now it looks like the border is moving. If these independent doctors move into larger business units of the private hospital, there is an entirely different situation. I wanted to explain my position on these matters. Since then, I have been calling for a discussion on the health - care organization. We're always seeing each other show up in budgets and funding now, as we see how the system changes gradually appear. This is how these funding laws show that additional contributions are expected to be made to a private work. I'll give you the medical care, it's up to 46 million. K. In addition to saving, at the Salatown Medical Center, where there is a similar drive, there is also an increase in budgets of over 20 million. K. Why does this happen? What is the prerequisite for such things and for righteousness? It is that the pressure has increased, there are more patients, and the agreements that have been made to expand into this operation. However, this does not occur in most public institutions. Considering the fact that the number of patients who attend the Land Hospital is less than 2%, 1.7%, a contribution to the Land Hospital would have to be made to increase only as a result of a billion dollars. Then again the question I raised raised in my first speech is, Is it a normal arrangement to look after a patient, as Milton Friedman proclaimed in his day that we should be guided, both in education and in the health system? I say no and have reasoned that it is not normal for the sole guide, but, of course, the pressures of the health system are to be taken into account, to the number of patients who consult the health institutions and schools, etc. when making a budget for this operation. The arrangement for a patient is fine if we have absolutely unlimited money, if we have unlimited money, may be well - off, but we do not have unlimited funds. We have to take care of the money. For example, research on OECD has been made many times during the last few years, making more use of each dollar in the Icelandic medical system than in most other countries. It was with a good organization. On the other hand, if we cancel any restrictions that have been on the budget in this way as the current highest. According to the health minister, he wants to do this with thought, financial support for patients, we have lost custody of those who invest. Then we've lost custody. If you think of offering some special service, a new health insurance service, then the money has to run there. It's just that way. Now, too, people would like to open up this national abilities. We need to give a warning and be careful. I would love to review how the Icelandic health insurance agency interprets the criteria compared, for example, to what happens in Denmark. The Dans were very skeptical about going in this path simply because they feared that their refer system would fall apart, so they would lose custody over the system as investors and decide for themselves what service they offer. We know of the natural education system that this was a building of universities, which in turn had the right and right to reach the taxpayer's pocket. [[Take it up: And collect school fees.]] And collect additional school fees. So the question is, do we want to go in the direction of providing agents on the market right to reach into the taxpayers' pockets at will? No. This would be possible if we were the United Maharajah of the Arabian Gulf and had oil here that came out of every hole. It's not like that in Iceland. It's not like that. We have limited money, and we need to handle it very carefully. This is followed by a series of aspects that turn to the scattered areas of the land. There are few people who would like to calm down until fish within the medical system, where there is no great euphemism, and so there has been experience, as I had learned in my previous talk, that poor rural communities or urban areas have failed to get out of this arrangement. V.E.G. President. I say, we need to take up a discussion about this. It doesn't mean to come out on the news TV like it's the highest. The other day, a health minister almost whispered at the end of the interview that he was now starting a road toward this arrangement, the financial support of the patient. But I'd like to make a very clear distinction between going along this path and taking into account the increase and the demand of the territory and the problems of individual institutions, such as those: The land hospital I'd like to say is, in effect, living in a kind of emergency. I think that's just reality. And there are many employees who are putting up an unbearable burden. It is. We must also be reminded of how waiting are extended after important measures within the medical system. It is largely at the Land Hospital, but it is also with other health institutions in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u80	V.E.G. President. I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son before an excellent speech. I think there's much we agree on in this. He spoke of the assessment of health insurance criteria. If I were on a greater part of the budget, I would have chosen to do business on health insurance, rather than a Land Hospital, which is where the extra funds come from and it seems to be paying for medical services where the need is not available. That's what I wanted to say. But, hey. A senator spoke a lot about the funding, the financial support of a patient. I sense that at the clinic, the work has been done to restore the spirit of the employee and to inspire people to hope that they are improving the quality and organization. I think that's very positive. I think everyone agrees that there's something to change the financing. That's exactly what I want to say with the senator. I think we're supposed to look at these cases and the financing. We're not supposed to change business here. I don't think it should do it over the head, but we shouldn't do it that way. Today, money is primarily a problem for health care. But we are faced with the fact that the funding is not even being discussed at the General Assembly unless we are trying to force it into a position of government. I've asked about the business plan in an inquiry for a written answer. But I actually wanted to hear the senator's attitude that such important decisions should be made without the coming of the council. Is that acceptable?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u81	V.E.G. President. No, that's not acceptable. This discussion is very important. I want to thank you. A senator for getting involved in that discussion for a long time, and I refer to an interview and discussion as a matter of course. paritaprevir It's been written last time by Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. It is very important to open up this discussion and to take it into the community in general and to examine the context of things. When health care was cut down in the capital area, waiting rooms in the emergency room filled with much more expensive resources. Thus, we need to examine all of this together, as well as this system of support for a patient. We need to take the discussion before we go along with it. What exactly is that we mean? Where are we going to build some limits? Then I'm saying that we should examine the criteria, which, for example, are laid at the foundation of allowing the move between countries. Are they comparable here and in Denmark, for example, to a country that is trying to protect its system because they feel that the reference system is threatening by this move? [[Up front.]] It is very important that we take this discussion. It should not be offered to the General that reports in the media are to make fundamental changes on the system. When asked, he said he was the highest. A health minister, such as being prepared to have a word with members of the council if their minds were available, we need to say loud and thorough, so that our mind must be heard, the highest. And the minister of the health of Kristján Þór the son of Júlíusson, to have a place to say unto thee concerning these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u82	Madam President. For health care over borders, it is absolutely right that we need to examine these criteria. I'm going to say that it's my opinion that on the welfare committee it's one thing to look at this, especially because there's concern now that when such a long wait list is in Iceland, we all want patients to get under medical care, that the pressure to get out of the country is so much that the consequences may be that it's harder to make money on a waiting list here. I would like to repeat that it is solely on a welfare committee to ensure patients as soon as possible good service but to take careful steps at a health - care level so that we have at least a perspective on what it means to open up such a service. For the financing, the business plan and all that I've asked questions and got very aggressive answers. This was followed by medical contracts for change and improvement in the health system. There has never been an offer in political discussions about that matter, and it is strange, since there is nothing that unites the nation as much as the view of the health system. In this place tax costs are to be set aside, and the government is to be the primary authority. These are generally accepted by Icelanders regardless of their rank, age, or habitat. But the highest. Health Ministers seem afraid to discuss their plans in political matters, for they may suspect him and know that they are not necessarily in the spirit of what the public wants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u83	V.E.G. President. I agree completely with what. A senator that the most united community, above all, is health - care, health, and health - care. I know it from my own soul to be the head of the BSRB in the 1920's, 21 years, that it always seemed to be the most important part of my life, and especially the health system, because if anything is going on in our lives, our family, or in the community, it's the most important thing to us. I've sometimes told that story and I'm going to do it one more time that I'll never forget when I visited a good friend who had a very serious head disease at the City Hospital and had to go to an accurate shoot and was taken up in an ambulance in Domus Medical because there was a much better option than in the Land Hospital. Who had paid for these fancy machines in Domus Medical? That's what we did, the taxpayers, they paid all of it. We're making decisions at all times about how things work out for the finance and what the government and the Supreme Court do. A health minister is making a new channel that is available in these directions. It's just a thing that has got us all involved, and we're supposed to talk very thoroughly before it's held onto a path that definitely stands in opposition to the majority of Icelanders. This has been repeated and repeated, now the last study of the National Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u84	Madam President. I come here for my second speech on the budget money money because I'd like to talk more about my changing plans. The budget board that's in the area. Yesterday in my first speech, I simply did not have time to discuss it as thoroughly as I would have chosen. I am now coming to another talk to make this subject better. Madam President. Now, though, quite a number of talks have been delivered here since I spoke yesterday. It is of utmost importance that in particular members of the Council have made a decision, but those who have spoken on the part of the Commission during the council have not directly brought a case or responded directly to the changes in the smaller section, which is about the addition of the ideals of older citizens and disability to the increase in minimum pay and the increase in recovery, i.e. from May 1 this year, to what everyone has received. All other groups have been reimbursed this year, and that's where we're at. Councilmen didn't give up. To put this proposal in context of the reality of the poor in Icelandic society, I want, with permission of the highest power. President, to quote an article in which Halldór Sævar Guðbergsson, vice president of Iceland's Institute of Micronity, and María Óskarsdóttir, president of the IBI case group on the subject of choice, wrote in the Morning newspaper of December 3, on the International Day of Disorientated People. This article says, with the permission of a president: The 2016 budget is discussed in the next few days. They announce an increase of 9.4% in pensioners on January 1, 2016. That means that individuals who rely solely on pension from government insurance agencies will receive about 11,000 dollars. increase in pocket after official charges have been paid. The minimum wage went up on May 1 by less than 20,000. By taxes, it is fair to assume that only 1% of wage earners are on the minimum wage in the country. This means even greater failures between pensioners and remunerations. Today, the non-involved pensions of social security are nearly 80% of the minimum wage and only about 37% of the average wage. It was also a cold water main that those in pension received when a sage council decided that officials and councilmen would have a 9.3% rise again from March 1. Pensions, i.e. microenergy and old age pensioners have become bored with the always talking of percentage increases and the rise in pensioners as much as others in society. One percent of low pensions is also small. Since the start of the current government, in May 2013, the non-performed pensions of social security have increased by over 6%, meaning the increase in the budget taken since January 2013 by more than 10,000 dollars. per month. This is all the raise. The growths announced today are also very late. Why can't a pensioner get back - ups like other social groups? People who have to live at 170,000,190,000. During a month, it is not possible to support yourself adequately. We today see that the people who turn to us are in dire distress and desperate for each month, and they simply don't see how to make the booking work, e.g. by buying food, getting medical care, or releasing needed medicine. Councilmen need to realize that it is very expensive for society to keep people in a poverty trap and to claim that it is much more expensive in the long run. So these were the words of the vice president of Iceland's Institute of Development and of the Chairman of the IBI case of a chicken business in an article in the Morning Press yesterday on the International Day of Disoriented People. In fact, this tells us all about the ideals for the poor in Icelandic society today. This is precisely why the change in the memory of the part to the point. The budget is so important. It has to improve the quality of disability and pensioners over time, like other groups. Hv. paritaprevir Ragnheiður's daughter Ríkharðsdóttir spoke earlier today and said that the Allied must make sure that the poor can live a decent life. Of course, I agree. I like it when it happened. A senator who is also a council leader of the Independence Party. It is important that she say this in the discussion. But, hey. A senator also said that she felt that the ideal pensioners were not bound to collective labour agreements. I don't agree with it at all. As noted also in the case of what? paritaprevir Ragnheiður's Ríkharðsdóttir, Ragnhein, no one chooses to be an invalid. That is precisely why, people are not desperate by choice, which we as a society should make sure that they have no less value than others. I don't personally want to live in a society where it is actually built into the system that disability should be subsigned and in worse standing than any other group of society. To say, I think it's very important to settle the terms here and to speak specifically of reaching the terms above, i.e. improve the benefits of those with low incomes and low arrangements. It's certainly such a thing in our society that too many people cannot support themselves in their pay. However, the fact that this is the case should not mean that disability should be impaired. Such a community, I think, is simply a bad society. Therefore, once again, I want to stress that the change in my share's proposal for the budget, that the payments will be repeated from May 1 this year, must accept, the community will be all for luck, not just for micromathage. By living a poor, decent life, we are also ensuring their participation in society. Society is able to buy food for all community groups, provide good environment for their children, and have a happy future for them. So again, I want to reiterate and hope for a moment. Councilmen, especially sharp. Congress officials who have not spoken a lot of words, take these to heart, and listen to the argument of the Quantum Community, which, in fact, is the protection of the poor and is, in fact, a labor union of disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u85	President. We'll discuss a bill for budget money by 2015. In my speech, I intend to dwell on a few things. Understandably, not all aspects of the matter can be considered in 20 minutes, but the discussion has been good and beneficial. Yet, there is not enough communication, as is more often than here at a church hall, between those who present the case, and who present it with criticism or opinion. I think it's a general concern if it's not a concern how seldom the General Assembly will live up to the political agenda it should be, the place where we share views and paths of complex issues to end in an open conversation that the entire public has access to. What we're discussing here is, in effect, the part of the budget-related cases that lie inexplicable aspects of the current year and unforeseen occurrences, the effects of new labour agreements or new legislation during the year, as shown in financial legislation. In the budget, it is particularly important that funding is not intended to include new projects, increased activities, or, for example, the environment of the individual institutions over the budgets. I don't think it will be overlooked that it all works very strange, that I don't say I like it in the context of the time when men are discussing heavy discipline here and reviewing all procedures under public financial resources. Of course, it is the same with public financial matters that we are primarily setting rules for ourselves. It is not as if we do not follow the rules we make ourselves. You will wonder how credible it is for a person to rely on the rules of government finance and the laws that will be adopted in the coming days if such a clear law is ignored as here on the bill for financial support of the greater part as well as the fact that there will be very detailed comments from no less than a senator. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. She spoke extensively earlier today, referring to the fact that no one will take the interest in the economy, no one will accept money, and no one will take the money, and everything would be a complete disgrace. However, it is that all the more part of the government supporting the current government voted in exactly that way. Still that is the question of words and actions. It can be said very well that this is an inadequate practice, but it can continue. First, they make comments as reason. the less part of the budget committee makes the bill these factors, i.e. it shows that there are a number of suggestions that were anticipated and therefore do not belong in a bill for financial support and that will not be overlooked. Second, I would like to mention what has been very significant during the discussion but is also fundamental. It is the fact that we have a number of issues to address here at the General Assembly and at the Council not for the discussion and for the community debate, where the European Commission takes an enormous amount of authority to focus on its concerns, to prioritize funds, to change the movement and guidance of the community at the General Assembly, without thus having a democratic mandate. Of course, the government is always represented by the Generals, but there are instruments that the government groups spoke to them of the focus changes to form in the process of elections or in other ways that could be considered beneficial and that the common people could have considered themselves important changes. I'm here to form an extra focus on private business and privatization in the welfare and health system, which I don't recall in order to form the forward category, put much emphasis on the campaign. More such matters, such as closing the colleges before 25 years of age and older, do not recall talking about the campaign, that it was in tickets in supermarkets or in brochures where smiling candidates were up and down pages, that they promised to close the colleges before they were 25 years of age and older, I can't remember. However, decisions are being made that the Council is not being made at a policy stage but is at the time of the payment of the budget. Perhaps, though, it is better than what you see here that the budget is just set aside for a number of teams, mainly for tourists and road construction. This is not some group of lawsuits that are drawn up hipps. In the case of this road, the important group of events, there is a set of laws on policy development. We, the lawgiver, have agreed that a process of transport should be submitted and agreed and discussed in the General and that there is a visible priority for both projects and funds and the Council provides some kind of guidance for the Commission. Now, the government that is now in power has not delivered a transport program. We don't have a transport plan. Now we're in the middle of the third year of the term, and there's no transport plan going on. What we receive and are expected to recognize is that there are controlled road users, and they even financed by press conferences, press releases, applause, and darts in the middle of a year, and the financial resources are not just set up in the terms of expenses. The contribution made to the budget is put up in front of the budget; it is also a fact. The Environment and Transport Committee has not been involved either. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee is in charge of the transport sector of its tasks, waiting for the possibility that some means of transport will ever come, which some of which have been asked at the highest level. A minister about and she's been on her way like she's been the last loss. Here we are talking about the strategy and budget decisions made by the General Assembly. The same is true of tourism projects. We are talking about a complete failure in the largest and most complex categories of language that we see in Iceland's formulation of employment in real life. That is what the government really gives. What we face at the General Assembly must be as worried about the Generals as it is with government opposition, this is a huge amount, hundreds of millions of dollars, and a second billion in the case of the Roadmaker, which is determined without policy and without actual decision making in the case of the General Assembly. I think it would be useful for us at some point to look at and apply this procedure to the lessons that we should learn to reduce the economic collapse and the report of the General Commission on the change and improvement of work here at the General Assembly and to support the council, to reduce the leadership and control of the European Commission on the lawgiver. It's all on an all-exploiting cruise in order of these government groups. The matter of Congress considered here is a particularly unpleasant reminder of that reality. Where to discuss and decide priorities if not at the Council? That's how we've agreed to recommend society's interests for a shorter and longer time. All other means, compromise with the mutual decision of all of us in this society that we call on the days of a democracies in which we make a great deal of an authority for each decision. Then I'd like to raise the subject, which attracts the changes in the memory of the part and perhaps primarily the reasonable proposal that older citizens and disability will be added in accordance with the increase of the lowest salary and payment from May 1 this year as in general pay. It is suggested that the cost be about 6.6 billion. to improve the interests of older citizens and disability. So says a committee party. a smaller share of the budget board. I think very much about the inadequacy of the discussion that has been given to the administrative point in this regard. I think it's almost every month that's about to be discussed as if it's a technical solution but it's not a chilling reality of a lot of people every day and every single match that's not just about your own development and your own chance to live with dignity and real involvement in society, but we're also talking about the worst population that's ever happened to poverty in Iceland. In many ways, this is the poorest group in Iceland. We know that nearly 10% of the Icelanders have trouble making ends meet every month. A large proportion of them are being suggested here to increase to the level of workforce. There's no negotiation. There's no reconciliation. There's no Karpade. It's just us. Just the Senate Hall, just here for this discussion and the votes it puts together to make a decision on these matters. The hearts of this group. Last year, on April 15, 2014, the Children's report of poverty was presented. There was the striking assessment of the child's poor condition and its consequences. These interviews have been made with a number of children who have lived in poverty and lack of material things for a long time, and they clearly reveal the impact of a persistent lack of spirituality, their lives, and their potential for development. They feel less powerful, they avoid association with other children, they avoid association with peers outside the school because they are repeatedly exposed to economic differences. Much of these children have disability parents. We must not forget that microists are also family members. It is also common people who have anniversaries, who want to change on a summer's day, who want to lose a tooth fill, which falls into the street, where the cooling doors crash, and the glass break, which falls into unexpected and unforeseen expenses, but who have no flexibility and no room for their daily operation to meet neither small nor large events. This is the everyday life and daily reality of families who need to rely on the forwards of this social security system. Here I am talking about family members, a respectable president. We must not forget that when we're using numbers here, that behind all these numbers there are people. After every number we discuss here, there are people. In fact, their names are so dignified as equal or elemental income is always human behind them. It's our duty to be here for the greater good. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir at some point spoke of it here that it was important for a financial committee to stand up in front of all those who want more. I'm not gonna have anything to say on that subject. That can be true. How important it is to stand up well before those who want more! But it is our job to listen to voices that are not the most loud and even those who have no words. What are these voices? Is it supposed to be the voices of children? Should it even be the voices of poor children? What are the interests of children who are poor but the good of children? Let us put ourselves in their shoes. When making decisions like this, let us imagine that at one point at the table making decisions in the Theocratic Ministry School, at the state level, at a panel meeting, representing the poor children, we are taking the stand. Let us be responsible for the important task of captureing that voice, understanding that voice, and bringing it into the scene of making decisions. That is where our responsibility lies and is the richest. These are not the big votes, those who strengthen or support and push groupings in each of the suggestions they choose. But this is when it all comes to our most important role; to listen to the voices of those who have the least authority in this society. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this much further. I suppose that the end of this discussion will be paid a vote for the change in memory and more parts. I expect that. The members of the greater part agree with me and us in the lesser part of the fact that these are not just political matters but also moral projects. We have a moral obligation to meet the interests of these groups just as much as the general labour market does because it's not a bargaining table, there's no house. It's just us who make that decision, and if we don't take it, we'll shoulder the shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech. A General's study report speaks of legalism. It is noted that in the years before a collapse, more and less is involved in the evaluation of laws by the letter rather than by the spirit of law. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance is asked about this, why the ideals of the elderly and the desperate do not raise as much as the lowest wage in terms of the highest. Minister to the Law letter, 69th par. the management of social security and the establishment of an older citizen and disability will increase according to general pay development or an index depending on whether or not they are higher. The Spirit of this law, I beg you, that you don't keep the interest of the aged and desperate. Now, especially for those who have the lowest wage that truly is, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. At least one member of this group, this group, or one member of that group. So you shouldn't ask why. A senator would not be able to refer to the spirit of these laws, when it happens in our contracts that the lowest wage was particularly reduced, whether or not to be looked at when the terms of the elderly and the desperate are chosen, and therefore the proposal of the smaller parts of the budget is reasonable and in line with the spirit of the law on social security?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u87	Madam President. I agree with that interpretation. A senator, and it is obvious that the law shows that the problem should be interpreted in favor of those in need, i.e. accept his forwarding out of this system. If the difference is identified, then the more relevant point should be considered. Let's see what general pay development is because it's what's spoken of in the Social Security Act. If I were asked what general pay development in Iceland was in the last six or nine months, I would say number one was emphasised on the increase in the lowest salary. That's the first thing I'd mention. And then I would be asked, "Why was it done? " This was because the lowest wage was considered to be so low that it did not accept alimony. Isn't it? Are there any who would interpret this differently? This has a transfer value to these groups, disability and the elderly, because it is the same thing, except that there is one of the most clear operations within the general labour development of the past losses - the lowest salary increases specifically - and the conclusion that these groups will not end up together, that these groups have remained and that this is not enough for general support as well. I think it really doesn't matter whether we use narrow legalism or just plain fairness, the same conclusion is that the smaller parts of it do, so it deserves support here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u88	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The right government has howled to be called the government of rich people and has tried to argue that they are not right, that they do good things for not only for the rich but also for the poor, and especially for the middle - class. But in this budget bill, there's 600 million. K. Turned to the state funds intended to balance the social status of children's families and the General approved here changes in child reforms to meet the family's families because of increases in food taxes. It was a billion who were added to meet children's families but only 400 million. K. went out and 600 just went back to government funds, and no criteria turned into bandages. Then we were reminded of it in a talk earlier today, in a sermon. paritaprevir Sigríður Save Ingadóttir, up to 400 million. K. was also suggested counterweighting with food taxes that were supposed to increase rent-ins. They haven't been paid out yet. That's where we can say that the people in the country are being deceived by the counterargument of higher tax prices, and when it comes to the extra funds, it's almost all pulled back; there's a billion that's going back from the 1.4 that's supposed to go to counterweight action. I want to ask you why. A senator in charge of this and whether he feels it is reasonable and normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u89	Madam President. There was a great deal of discussion about the increase in the food tax rate at the time, and we are reminded of a number of people in the media as well as in other places with the proposed increase in food taxes and were referred to at the top words. Early prime minister, since he considered all such plans to be very dangerous. But then, after all, the Specialist Party felt that it was all right to increase the food tax because the increase was less than the plan had been, and as I had understood it, because for these counterwinnery measures. I wondered, " How much of this discussion has been in the light of the day. ' I think it doesn't matter how you look at this, it can't be called anything but fraud. It's just a betrayal. In fact, some 1,400 million people are spoken of. K. will improve the impact of children's family over the increase in food tax, which is certainly the weightiest in the shopping of children's families, and then in the interest of some place in the middle of the lines, it is more and less combined, that is nothing more than fraud. I'd just like to know if all the senators here at the Council are aware that this is not just the nation's backside, and those who had to pass it on, but those members of the Parliament who paid this vote after a long period of suffering in good faith, I'd like to believe, because they thought it was an adequate countermotive action. I wondered if in some way this reflects the relations between the members of the administrations, whether this is really the decision of the Independence Party, which the forward party will then pass, or whether it is. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, supports this approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-04-47.u90	A respectable president. I speak here the second time in this case. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but earlier today it seemed that it would be very controversial, so I decided to put myself on the rosary to respond to some of the things that have been said here. Actually, my words, such as the fact that I said here in a sermon, probably in an antiquated way, are misappreciating that I thought the tax from interest would be comparable to hunting expenses. I'm just going to set it right here once and for all because then it flew into all the government speeches. I said fishing costs are similar to income tax from a seafood company. It is obvious that in the case of high - quality fishing costs, companies do not yield as much profit as they do on the basis of paying taxes to the State. Now this is where the balance is needed so that both parties can enjoy and that as much money comes out of the fishing system. We feel that it is done in a way that reduces the price of hunting slightly. As a result, it has produced an even greater tax taxation than it did during the last term. That's exactly what's taught by the Laffer, the Laffer curve: When the tax returns to the tax, the government's income is falling back. Similarly, we feel that the fishing rate was too high during the last terms, so the taxes were reduced. I'm not going to chase after anything that's been said in this discussion. I suppose this case will be referred back to the budget board between the 2nd and 3rd. This is where there's a change in motion from what's happened. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir and others we're likely here to discuss. At the end of these discussions, I assume that this will be referred back to the money committee. I think it's a good idea to have a financial committee like one of the meetings on this matter before the 3rd. Coming. Because with this bill, we are completing the budget for 2015.
