ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-142.u1	Mr. President. I was now informed that this case was followed by a 3rd district proposal. If there is no misunderstanding, it would be reasonable for someone to recommend it. But I think it's inevitable to say a few words because of words. Secretary of the sea in a vote on the 2nd. of this case and the language that was presented in this regard for hunting charges and accusations against the government's opposition that it was incompatible with it. She hasn't been in her lawsuit. The presentation of the government's environment has been surmised that the quality of the seabed and the huge financial development of the article in these huge waves makes it possible for the seabed to contribute more effectively and to contribute more to the common needs of society and to produce a higher proportion of the resources that are evident to be present in Icelandic marine soils today. The objections to this have been due to the major stakeholders of the major projects in the country that the small productions did not cover it. However, more than that, the amount of money that has been set aside to support my less - than - price deduction had collapsed and had almost come to nothing. This bill, as originally indicated, was to be spent about 50 million. K. to support the smallest projection. Granted, the majority have been shocked to present a faulty suggestion to give a discount of about 300 million. K. There is a significant improvement, but unfortunately, a large part of the discount is distributed to large, pitted companies instead of looking for a process of exporting to the smaller sources, if they want to be themselves parties and say: It is the small and mediums who are struggling to carry heavy fishing costs. [[That's wrong.]] No one can debate that the largest and most powerful fishing companies in the country could carry higher fishing costs. How much higher can we debate. But there is no way to argue that companies who pay their owners year after year double the three times the cost of the hunting costs are in trouble with that share of payment. At the same time, their own money has been increasing in big steps and the recovery has been taking place. I believe that it is likely that there will be some 90 billion dollars in Icelandic fishing soils, EBITDA, in Icelandic fishing soil. This year. These are all the drawings that will make the year very good, yet another year, which will be the seventh or eighth year, where the rise of the Icelandic seabed will be better than ever. It has become quite a long and good season, since it has become a dramatic change of its own money, which was negative about 50 billion or so, 60 billion, I even think by the end of 2008, is positive at a rate of 3,100 billion. This has happened in those years. It's beautiful. From the best time before a crash, the marine road has recovered its financial strength. That's a fact. Of them, perhaps 90 billion. which the fishing industry will have produced this year has a rough calculation that makes it easy to prove that 40 to50 billion are resource resources, i.e. it is a trust funded in the article, which is more than any rich way to estimate the yield of one's own money and money in the article. It's just that way. And if you take your living room year-time income, then resource use is still a bigger part of it. But if we say that we should use higher standards for annual pay, i.e. the increase of funds in the article so that everyone now gets his own, that the property and financial resources of the business have natural yields and the entire resources of the owners in this article have natural yields, say 8% or 10%, still left a lot of resources. Then it's about what's fair for the owner of the resource, the nation, to get from this slide. Is that a minor offense? Is it a quarter or a fifth, as perhaps the current fishing fees, or is it a higher proportion? What is the owner's right to make a great deal of money, truly because of the access to the valuable resource? It is a fundamental discussion of these matters that needs to be initiated at this assembly once and for a time in place of this incomprehensible pex that some people want to be evil against this article and others do not. Of course, all of us want the Icelandic seafood well. Of course, all of us appreciate his importance, even though he may not be the only great source of burden on Iceland's economic and professional life. This is in itself well, for it has not happened because the fishing grounds are bad, but because other branches have grown. It is a good development in our business and economic affairs. However, I do not feel that such discussions can be held in the case of a discussion that was to be called, either in speech or in reply to the highest degree. Marine and agricultural ministers and the head of the professional network, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, earlier. I'm not gonna get offered that to me. I will not have a deporting discussion in that way and will nail the government opposition against the wall when she offers suggestions in a highly perfunctory way that shows that smaller and medium - sized forms could be more supportive without a substantial discount. Then there wouldn't have to be a reduction of hunting costs as much as the other part was doing now one more trip, probably by... [[Up front.]] Yes, but a discount from what the bill expected. The more it becomes, the more difficult it is to find the methodology that he now believes was that he had invented elements, did not work long. She didn't last long. She didn't last. Because the bill that was supposed to introduce the methodology that had become a major source of articles - and it's all very nice, it's the latest at the highest level. A minister and his people - were no better equipped to handle a special reduction in certain species at the end of the case. Then may I remind you of all the discussion of human efforts to approach this on a general basis in previous efforts to achieve the pressures of hunting costs and the capture of resource resources as such, and will further address the proportion of it to flow into the common fund of the population. I still believe that methodology is better. It is the methodology that has been developing in general in the environmental rights and in tax laws in neighboring countries. But Iceland is still stuck in the old tire tracks, at least in the hands of the current authorities. This is to be taken back so that you can be good to your friends and only do what they want to do when you need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-142.u2	It was intended that the president try to resolve the issues presented on this program. It is clear that this will not be possible because there had been a agreement to provide space for a panel meeting as well as a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee. Therefore, this discussion will be postponed and the program will be taken at 2,◯10. it's important.
