ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u1	V.E.G. President. We've reached 3. Um, final discussion, bill to legalize the law of law No. 98/2004, in terms of the interpolation costs of electricity distribution. I was sick at home at 2nd. I watched her from there, and I did what. paritaprevir How clearly Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir is aware of our opinions in 2 smaller things and the adjustments in it. I'm going to use the time I have at 3rd. to explain my viewpoints in this regard. For one thing, I want to say that I have long spoken for the average warm - up cost in the country. Hence, it was one part of our adjustment program to take immediate action, a project discussed on the job committee, and a considerable harmony, but unfortunately it did not succeed and did not become the adjustment of the fine committee. It did not work out that way, but it was in our making of changes that were about to end the situation and start off at the cost of house warming right this year, which would cost only about 250 million, if I remember right, to counter the great injustice that people who raise their houses live by where they live in the country. This bill rotates to the target that the equation will be placed on a dispersal board to balance rural areas by laying charges on residents in urban areas and, as the bill says, and the administrative sector has agreed, to place 30 dollars per kilohour, which will give less than a billion when everything will be done and go on this equation. I reiterate them, saying: It's all a good thing to put into the cash. At the same time, 10 cents per kilogram may be put in less efficient electricity. The trouble with that way is he, which makes me unable to support her is that there is an even greater burden on residents in urban areas to pay off residents in rural areas. That's why I did and did. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir suggested that the electricity tax, laid in our time of trouble during the last government's last year's visit be extended but reduced by half. I would like to emphasize this: A drop in half would be so that the tax would rather than give the missing $2.2.2.4 billion in total surgery. We were also reacting to the suggestion of the greater part, as a minister's proposal, that the 240 million people on budget and that they have been used in this subsidies during the past few years fall down. In other words, the government fund is going to stop paying 240 million from a government fund and take it all from electronic users to urban areas. The way the management sector is going is worse than ours, and I'm sorry that we didn't have come together to lower the energy tax by half and that all the energy buyers, including the major industry that buys about 85% of all energy, went into this huge equation, this equation operation. Sadly, that proposal was made. Then we will be left to suggest that the greater part is going to be done, that is, we will see in the data that accompanied the bill from the Ministry's Office, an increase in the cost of a total of 1,5 summarise19 thousand dollars. use electric heating users in urban areas. If we take, for example, the energy farm of the West is likely to increase the cost of electricity for people who live in stocks or rural areas. We can take, for example, the population of Bolungarvík, who will have the increase while residents in the vicinity or in the depths of Isafjörður will have a slightly smaller fall. So, in effect, inhabitants of urban areas using electric heating pay higher prices than residents of rural areas. I'm asking the highest. Mr President, do I have more than 15 minutes now at the end?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u3	I remember that. One factor has not been discussed now, and that is because this bill was moved last year and it did not run out. Then a lot of comments came up, and one way from HS hosts, as it is called, pointed out something I've done in the past to talk, but it feels like you didn't quite realize: by raising a limited amount of energy every kilohour, it raises the population uses telecommunications. For example, I called HS Gögis, residents of the Western Islands. Citizens in Western countries will first have an increase due to the sale of less energy for telecommunications, and then they will have an increase in their electrical heating, and then they will have another increase, which is at 30 dollars per kilogram hour, and the subsidies, as the bill says. The situation is that residents in the Western Islands will pay more because they have a double increase. The same is true of other telecommunications in many parts of the country, but I'm not going to risk myself in listing all of those places. This is because of the complexity of the issue, and the transformation of one factor leads to many changes in various other factors, as I did to talk about it. Business organizations warned of this process and simply said about what is presented in the bill in the Ministry's assessment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the cost of this matter that they strongly questioned the Habitat opinion that the way had no effect on the index value of consumer prices. Business and industrial organizations clearly state that this is not correct and that this way will affect the index value of consumer prices. Of course it is, Mr President, that the increase will be measured and the index price will be increased, so everyone will have an increase in this. This is because it's so complicated to go through these things. A respectable president. I'm going to come back to the modification proposal of my 2nd, which was assigned to me. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. In fact, in the finest European Union we turned in, we make clear that, instead of increasing our energy by 30 bucks per kilogram hour for average users and 10 dollars in less energy, the electricity tax would be extended and, if I remember correctly, go down to 0.065 dollars per kilograms per hour. He would, in effect, fall by half. I think, especially when we look at some business resources, big business companies, and those who are buying a lot of money, in Legislation and other energy companies, that way was reasonable. No one has to tell me that this would have confused our position in Iceland about being able to attract our Internet servers or other major workplaces. It doesn't tell me that it would have made a difference between killed and unsolved in it, these 0.065 dollars or a billion, calculatedly, 850 million from all major users in Iceland, and including 150 million from the public. And it should be noted that, if I recall correctly, in the electricity tax, 2% of the taxes on the heat supply that put them into this fine. Of course, it can slightly change the numbers I had before, drop both sides, and get money in from the thermals that I don't have the exchange, what it would be like. This is also shown in the practical use of the case, and it comes from the Ministry to the cost of heating for those living in an geothermal plant in Reykjavík around 97,500 p.m. every year. Of course, it goes slightly out of the sink and lowers something, but it is difficult to tell exactly the number of the elevations involved. On the basis of the criteria set out, and I don't have time to go through, how many kilowatts and size of a house, etc., there is an cost of a demolition in Reykjavík about 100 you. K. and about 95 of you. K. In Akureyri. But let us bear in mind that for those in the areas where there is a hot - hot heating system or a telecommunication system that now receives a 10 - cent rise plus the population of 30, these are some 210-520 you have. K. As I said before, the problem is with the government's way of putting it on users in urban areas as it results in an increase. In fact, it would be possible to find established places in Iceland where the population of urban population, urban areas above 200, and what is considered to be rural, i.e. below 200, there may be few miles between them. If you're in the urban area, you'll have 15 to520. K. increase, I have to have the gap a little wide because of all the changes that will be and affect, and there's a small amount of similar for those living in rural areas a few miles away. The inhabitants of urban areas will thus be exposed to rural population. A respectable president. I hope I have made it quite clear that I have spent all my time at the General Assembly speaking for the equation of warm-up and house heating costs and that as much as possible there should be a subsidies and, after tax returns, as we have spoken, the electricity tax, to equalize the difference. I don't think it's very complicated. It was just so that the Ministry adhered to this and refused to examine other ways. I reiterate that in our modifications in the second small part, subsidies for the upkeep of a house, what is missing in the limit of $2,250,300 million. K. That procedure would have occurred right away. We suggested that the government fund, which is now making a number of incomes that were not expected in budgets, such as interest payments and revenues, lay out this year to start the operation immediately but would be paid back by a comparable electronic tax by 2016. Our provisional advice was that in the future, 2017, he would fall by half and go down to 0.065 pennies per kilogram hour. So I'm sorry, so I blame it for not too many members of Congress, as often happens. It's complicated, it's hard to go through. I want to see that we got some information from the Akureyri department, which is a lot on these matters. They sent us new data and went through them to a telephone meeting, which was, of course, a bit difficult, and then we got the data and went through them on the committee. I think we finally understood what was presented, all the changes that affect other factors, etc. However, the conclusion is, in this fine point, about the beautiful thought of smoothing the house - to - house heating costs that in less part we have identified a much better way than the bill assumes. Unfortunately, she hasn't been able to get in, she hasn't been able to get a hold of a government member, and that's why our proposal was applied to a 2nd. As I said earlier, I could not participate in that discussion, but I wanted to participate in the discussion now and to promote my views. I hope this case will be of good benefit, but it's pointed to the baits and specifically points out what has not been discussed now and is because the companies that sent us references last year did not send in new comments but referred to the old ones. So you have to go into the matter at the last assembly to consider those of the HS hosts and others who pointed to the bad results of the bill, i.e. increased telecommunications in the telecommunications sector, making it more expensive for those living in telecommunications. A respectable president. Now it seems to me that I still have the time that was added to me. I've finished my case, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u4	The president agrees, it is not necessary to make a full - time presentation. The president would like to state to the council that no further votes are expected today, but this certainly has no effect on the presence of members of Congress at council meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u5	Mr. President. All I want to do is continue to discuss this important matter. Like what? A senator came in, I was a pilot at 2nd. in a minority party with a change of suggestions that I and I had. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller moved. That adjustment was made, as we have seen, on the 2nd. I think it was a big mistake that more of the employment committees didn't agree with the way we went until then. I believe that there would have been a way of far greater reconciliation, not only between rural and urban areas, but also between the parties under distribution and the big users involved. As it is suggested today, only those infested with diffuser hosts are allowed to equalize one another. Indeed, this export does not come in just the way in which electrical energy is being distributed. This means that the energy bills of urban telecommunications and telecommunication in urban areas will increase, in turn, the energy calculations of the rural population, the distribution cost of electricity will be reduced. Was it the way of this case that we would have to wrestle with the next attempt to meet higher power bills in urban areas? Were we not trying to balance this, but were we not going to find another way, and we need to keep trying to figure it out? The suggestion we made at 2 Peter 3: 1. ... me andwhat. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, saw the views that major users are involved in social responsibility by extending the electricity tax; which was supposed to flow into major users at the end of this year, of about 2.2 billion dollars. today. This tax could have been reduced to large users, half of them, and it would have been enough to level the distribution of electricity across the country, and not only that, but also balance down payment on house warming. We would have gone all the way to this assignment that the Council has been dealing with for far too long, as long as older men remember. Although members of all groups have been well-designed to balance national energy costs, unfortunately it has taken way too long and we do not see in the country yet. There would have been a sustainable system in the balance of energy prices between parts of the country, which is a great difference. The majority speak in their committee party on this matter, not to propose a synoptic proposal this year or the next to shape a policy on how to level payment on house warming. It's just a promise into the future, and we don't know how it's gonna happen to make a living about the budget and the struggle to divide into the budget, how it's going to get some money on that project. Although it is respectable to be working on a policy strategy in it, and to submit a synonym on the tip of the highest scale. A professional minister of that subject, there is nothing in the way of financing such a proposal when it is available. So we could have done this on one board so easily without the coercion of the industry having to howl; to lower the power tax on the industry by half; yet this would have been enough. I think a lot of criticism will be heard in many parts of the country when the public realizes what this means. Then the administrative body needs to answer for it and what righteousness it is when it comes to such a course. The average energy bills in the country are reported to be about 185 of you. K. Here in the capital area and 330 yours. K. in the country. It's just a mean, of course. I've seen accounts all the way up to - this is on a yearly basis - half a million in those places in the country that live at high cost of house warming and electricity. Since I think of two homes, maybe it's okay for me to share with the people that here in the capital area I pay over 100 far. K. a year for energy costs in my home, but since I live in the country, on the Westlands, I pay about 400 you. K. I'm half a million here. I'm not feeling sorry for it. It's just the way it is. You can feel it in your own skin, and it's a lot of roughness on the journey between people of the land and areas. The public markets are now open to agreements. The mere ability to meet the public in these areas, with a reduction in energy prices, to walk all the way through an equation of house - to - house heating costs, was an enormously improved process. If I could now count that, because the government looks at the way the state's power comes toward a bargain, it was one of the government's options to do it, to put energy costs between the people of the country to the full so that this great inequities would not be the same as it is today. I think it might even be a better dresser, but it would come out of collective agreements at the end of the day. At one time, when many parts of the country were given a low - product store, it was said that it was up to many agreements to get the satisfaction that came with it. But this is what it is now, men are here, they don't try to interfere with the big business or major users, it seems somehow it's something that's completely sacred, and they can't insist on making a difference between big users, so it seems that they're always safe. I think it's necessary that the public in the country get it directly through that they are doing it by not going beyond the bill. The bill is certainly a step in the right direction, but it could have been much more powerful if it had gone all the way and accepted the adjustment proposal that I was making. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller set up at 2nd. ... inthecontrovert. But this is the case, and it seems that we have to keep fighting for the price of energy, because it is far from being ashore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u6	Mr. President. We'll talk at 3rd. bill to legalize the law of No. 98/2004, on the equation of electricity distribution costs, with subsequent changes. I'd like to say that here we are confirming a major milestone and a great deal of justice that is finally being seen at the end, which is the equation of the distribution cost of electricity between urban and rural areas. Just like what? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter witnessed to her own heart, and I also know the benefits of the rural population. And how glad we are that we are reaching them on account of the rurals and the rural areas! And we all agree on this, and there has been no disagreement, at least not with those who have spoken before, unless there is less. The decision is to make it really in two stages, to achieve the equation we plan to make. The first step in this process is to balance the cost of electricity between urban and rural areas. It is simply a matter of disagreement, and their debates are very clear. The members of the council here are calling for temporarily extending the taxation of gross energy consumption. [[Up front.]] There is no solidarity; there is a separation. In view of the greater part of the case, it has been said that there will be a matter of filing the next phase, an equation of house - to - house heating costs. I trusted in the support of the senators who have spoken here and others in trouble. The U.S. Congress to capture them, for that is the stage we truly want to reach, i.e. That we may achieve this battle to the end, which was so clearly presented in the speech of the Lord. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir on a variety of house - to - house expenses. Then, naturally, there are a number of other views that we will respect, such as that real estate prices are otherwise in those areas, etc. However, this is one of the factors in our basic services that we want to achieve to the most solid agreement, to achieve the most equal between the population. We know the faults of such an operation, not that I refuse to acknowledge them, and they have been traced here. However, there is nothing to say that the network needs to be used for telecommunications. This too depends on how fast and fast we get to the next phase in the case. I would also like to agree with what the senators have said in the past, that there may be few greater and better compensations for those living in the cold regions, often referred to, than to balance house - to - house expenses. As to this, I think we will agree completely, even though we understand how the matter is being handled. And to sum up what I'm saying, we're taking here a very important step in this equation, which I know we agree that we want to work on and that it's not been criticized in the preceding talks. It's for the population of the countryside a very large stage, and I don't think it's meant to be too often. I also take advantage of this opportunity because I'm speaking in this discussion, indicating that there is a threesome proposal. of small matters, but just as I present it, which is a small change of 4. Article 1, 2015, which puts it this law will already come into force, but it will be carried out on April 1, 2015. Which is such a point to take into account as it is due to the taxation to be paid, that it is better to do it at each month's match, not somewhere in the middle of a month. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. Today, 240 million are being paid. K. to equal the distribution of electrical energy. As I understand it, it is assumed that once the equation within the network is fully incorporated, it will cost. Is the meaning, then, that a government fund saves that amount, or what is to be done about the amount of money there? Is it to go directly to the equation of house - to - house heating costs or to wait for the Senate resolution? How's it going to get money on the budget for this project? Or will it be determined immediately that the equivalent amount of money that the government saves is saved because the equation becomes under pressure from selling electricity within the network? I feel the need to know if the government will save that amount by allowing it to become an equation in the network system. It would be very good to know. Regarding whether or not the energy companies were rolling into the prices, we received the information that, for example, at the end of the year, the Energy base of the West increased its prices for the distribution of electricity into rural areas by 10%, and in Reark, the exercise increased by 28 a year, corresponding to an average increase of about 3%. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to hear a point of view. A senator on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. To answer her previous questions in as short as I possibly can, if the state is going to save themselves this amount, we have brought with this matter a measure of self-sufficiency into this equation. I think we agree that what we're missing in order to achieve this equation is no huge amount, so in my mind, we don't have to go into any further tax savings or equations, I'm looking more closely to the state's budget to take the final step, and then we have a lunch hole in this 240 million. K. In the latter part of her questions about an increase in electricity, I just want to say that I don't have the grounds for that price, so I didn't say anything about it. Whatever the situation may be, we'll get caught up, just as easily as we can. In his talk about her family's energy costs on the west coast, a senator certainly noted these increases, and they are not of good quality. But the companies undoubtedly have their reasons for what I don't know how to mention at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator with regard to major users, asking him to back it up a little bit better than I thought was shown in his case earlier, why they cannot be accepted into this assignment. I don't think it's enough to say that we just don't agree there. I think we owe the homes in the country that have high calculus answers to why you can't go that way rather than wait for hope and hope about when a government fund may be able to meet the cost by subsidies. There will always be a struggle to achieve it through the budget, as well as a battle between rural and urban areas. We know, regional Parliaments, that it is not necessarily easy, and many people feel that it is not easy to balance but, rather, subsidize something in the region that is a problem for society. Unfortunately, the views are all too loud, and our voices that speak against such views may not be as effective because their voices may be shrinking a little here at the high Council, unfortunately. Therefore, we need to be more familiar with ourselves and persuade members of the urban area in the capital area to meet the challenge of equalizing the high population cost of house - to - house warming.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u10	Mr. President. I shall gladly make for the better argument as reason. A senator's calling from now on. I could also practice the traditional conversationalist: You could have finished this one some time before, etc. The argument is just what I hit earlier, the energy charge was temporary tax, and the decision is not to extend it. V.E.G. Industrial Minister has said that there are certain reasons why it is not part of the general system, etc. I'm not saying that I'm supporting the big business from paying taxes here and having certain obligations, unless there's no such thing. The other thing is to get this equation, which I know we're gonna have. paritaprevir Rafney Electricney agrees. She well explained that it would be a challenge to understand the point of view. I feel sorry for those who are now getting an increased energy bill because of this equation. But it is also a real challenge to explain to others why they are being done. That is because we have not so far considered all the people of the country to be equal in the use of the public quality of electricity, and we produce our renewable energy resources. Perhaps it is an uncomfortable hard school that will only lead us faster and earlier to the second step toward the goal, i.e. perfecting the cost of house warming in a significant way is the effect that we agree on, me and the other. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney, we need to make it. It is as it says, always a challenge to speak for the interests of the rural population, those with a different view and position. It is not necessarily easy to lay these extra expenses on the urban population while this is going over, but we decided to do so in these steps. I hope the senator respects it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for taking part in this discussion, even though this is the case with 3. Um... and have a word with us as we have a 2. less share on this matter. It's very good and more than it can be said about other people who don't participate in discussions, and you can't have a word with answers that are as good as any, and sometimes even better than others, it's good to try to draw things out to people like me when I'm here. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. I kind of like it. In a speech earlier, a senator said that he felt compassion for those who experienced an increase. I'm going to keep on taking the Westfjord as an example, since I know quite well. How's it going, man? A senator to back it up for the population, let's just say in Bolungarvík, or in the South Valley, or anywhere that heats their houses with electrical warming and counts as urban, that they're going to get $15,000,200,000. increase in a year? I have to have so much worth in there because I don't know exactly how these 57 million. K. ... inprecautional tax comes in. It's so different, one change has such an effect on other things, etc. The evidence is that these residents need to take on an increase because we are going to subsidize the energy for those who may be 20 miles [20, 30 km] away in rural areas and who have been paying a huge account. I would like to state that we agree on the action such as this, but the question is, How can I get enough money to make money to go to this equation, which my fellows will naturally support, is just how to make money? That's my first question to ask. A senator: How will he back it up west on the shoreline between these two groups, and the difference has become considerably different from that of urban dwellers; now more expensive than in rural areas? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for these questions. He concluded by saying: "Now the urban population has become more expensive than the rural population. Maybe we can start by talking from the point where he ended. I think that's exactly what I'm doing. It has been very possible to recognize rural status in terms of the cost of electricity. We're taking a step in that. You're right. A senator also says that this number is 15,000,200,000. annual increase. We don't know. There is no accurate calculation available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u13	There'll be a raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u14	Hv. A senator asks me how I will justify this rise in the population of Bolungarvík, but I still don't know what the increase will be or what it will be. There's a senator here. My answer is as mentioned earlier: This is the first step in our operation to balance the cost of house warming. We decided to take this step. We don't agree on the route, it's been observed, it's our differences, but with this, we're going to get the chance to level house warming costs, which I think is a very large stage, and I'm really happy to reach. He has the drawback here that immediately leads us to the next step, extending the case further to the equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u15	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer he gave me. In my second answer, I would like to turn the discussion into the point that has been inside since the implementation of the electronic law of 2003; i.e. to 230, 240 million. K. was used directly by the government's budget for the subsidies of house - to - house heating. With the tax recovery the most part suggests, i.e. parks 30 dollars per kilogram hour and 10 dimes per indeterminable kilohours of electricity, puts in a state fund or industrial minister, along with this 240 million. K. the next budget will drop immediately in the next year. The sum of money is taken to the bank because the tax system is high that it is worth more than 240 million. K. If that 240 million. K. if you were to remain in prison, there would be no need for 30 pennies and 10 pennies, but the number would actually decrease by one quarter. That is the bad part of the way of the government, indeed. My other question concerns what has not been discussed but was discussed in the reviews of the last council, and I made up a subject of my speech earlier, i.e. increase in less efficient energy for telecommunications. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator will not wish that telecommunications will not put this into the prices, that will happen, as the review of HS hosts says, this will lead to an increase in the Western telecommunication system and other places of telecommunication. I'm asking why. Councilman: How should this be reasoned against the good way we in my second section contributed to the electricity tax? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to leave with what. paritaprevir Kristján Möller is his statement about the proper way he suggests, that she has her advantages, and that she also has her faults, and that we simply do not agree on her. More will occur in those using less energy than only this operation, unfortunately. We see that now the offer of unsecured electricity is being bought, the offer has gone up substantially, which may be primarily because there is a much lower supply of electricity in the tanks than it has been before, and the price is rising. This explains and will explain a much greater increase in electricity accounts than in this operation. The result of this 240 billion. Of course, it's impossible to say at this moment, but I'm going to go back with the answer I left behind. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafneyja: The next step in this operation is not in my mind to place burdens in the form of taxes or taxes but rather to make good use of donated funds. I believe that the remaining step is not as costly as what we take now. As a result, the 240 billion will be involved. K. Which the treasure of the state shall probably save itself, at the expense thereof.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u17	V.E.G. President. A last word. A senator, who referred to the export of energy companies in less limited energy, reminded me of a meeting that came to be with members of the North-east standard district in the previous elected week in several places where several parties, buyers with less energy, complained a great increase. Thank you. A senator for reminding us of what he said because it's absolutely right, this is happening, unfortunately. Then we can imagine, more dignified President, that every mile of every hour in less efficient energy to telecommunications are actually small ones compared with the other. If this works as far as I think it's likely to happen, the buyers complained a lot, the bids took place, and there'll be great increases, then where will the financial benefits of those using this energy be? A respectable president. It seems to me that there's been a much higher rise in telecommunications than there's ever been. It leads you to the fact that these plans did not exist when, for example, they did not exist. HS hosts and others were writing their reviews. There was nothing about it. I don't know how much I know how much 10 bucks are changing the less energy today in percent, but the other I can remember, the figures there were dozens of percent. And so those who heat their houses with telecommunications will certainly get hit. There will be residents in urban areas, because in a rural country I think I will allow myself to say, but may be lower in some of the less urban cities, and they will be more oppressed, and their financial gain will be gone forever. So it's not all gold that glows. This last point, I wanted to make up my last words once more and to say that this way of government is a bad way of reaching a good goal. The path we planned was much better. It's not the bait on her at the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs has now submitted. A respectable president. I said here about a natural pass as the highest. A minister suggested that I thought a minister had chosen the worst route. I seem to be at the highest. Ministers, in this bill and the taxation he is laying on urban areas, are even going the worst way. It's very bad at last when we're reaching our common goal, of course, the equations we've been talking about for a very long time here, but they were in a station for years. In the past government, for the first time, I think, for 8◯10 years increased contributions to house warming, I can't remember the number, but it remained the same until we saw that the proportion relative to what it was in 2003, and let's say 2012, was naturally very large. And so this, that there are millions, 240 million, the minister is going to take it out, returning it to the State Fund for other measures that can be done, but the tax paid on urban areas is therefore more than that. So, plus this as a what? A senator made a talk about the export of less energy. Then I'll just say, well, I don't know what to use when the calculations come out. These benefits are completely gone for those who pay at such a price.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u18	Mr. President. This is not a direct question to the senator, but because we are talking about the limited energy and the rise in it, I just want to say that there is simply an understanding, it is not the intention of more part to extend a temporary energy tax. There is concern about the increase in energy costs, as the senator does here, because of the low - power exports. That's what I called attention to. It's a lot bigger than we're dealing with here. The key point in the matter we address here is the equation and the justice that we have finally achieved before the rural area. We can probably talk a long time about the reasons why these offers are high in the limited energy, and we know some of the reasons why. But that's right. At the end of his second speech, a senator said that there are so many variables in all this work. There is so much change in relatively small changes in one place than in another that we cannot at this moment figure out the whole context or talk to us about all the changes that may be possible. But to me, what's going to happen to the energy costs of the agencies that pay the sale on the less efficient energy. I'd like to finally rejoice that we are achieving this justice in an equation between rural and urban areas. We all agree about that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u19	A respectable president. There's nothing that I need to respond to my objection to what I'm saying. A senator. He drew out fine points to bear in mind, and he agreeed with me on the extent of the impact of a single small or big change. I've made it a subject that men tax the population of urban areas to pay off to the rural population, but this beautiful operation, this equation against the rural population, is just the wrong way to get the money it needs. In addition, I would like to note that in the figures I've talked about here, which are government data, some 24,000 kilohours are spoken of for the use of heat and are calculated from it. Of course, we know that there are homes that use much more. There may be reasons for this, old houses, simple glass, isolated in such ways as their construction times, and perhaps they blow through, automatic ventilation, which requires more energy use. If we just say that there are 40,000 - mile [40 kg] spend hours, which is not uncommon and is now used as a limit for consumption, and everything beyond that was worth, the ratio increases. Hv. A senator reminded us of the limited amount of energy, and he explained it. There may be reasons for this. I'm afraid it won't help, it'll go up, and it won't decrease when water and energy production comes in more, I don't know. But that's all the things we do on a professional committee, me and what. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, will request a report on this experience so that we can see the results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u20	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 103/2006, on land measurements and basic maps. This bill suggests changes to the type, support and exchange of digital borders and land information bases. National data are related to the specific location or region, but such information is commonly provided on maps. Land information, for example, provides a wide range of education on land, soil, land use, transportation, and construction. It is an essential part of decision making and is used, among other things, in government policy, in a number of areas, such as implementation, planning, and environment. Such data are also a very important link during the follow-up of nature and in the implementation of public defences. Land information is also important to limit land and land. The use and interest of land data in the public have increased substantially over the past few years, including in connection with the use of smartphones and tablets where digital maps and air pictures are combined with other software, such as guidance on GPS devices. More and more are needed for better and more accurate land information on the earth's surface and for providing data without barriers, especially for travel and outdoors. On the other hand, current legislation limits the European Commission's work to no greater precise distribution of land data than 1:50. 000. Therefore, the bill suggests that Iceland's National Studies ensures that land information base is established, maintained and transmitted to the precise specifications needed and technology allows the Agency to perform its function. A standard scale is therefore issued. With the bill, Iceland's National Analysis is not intended to perform the production of core data, an analogy to those already present in private hands. If the bill becomes a law, the government agencies can have greater benefits and a chance of joining in on the purchase or rent information of private agents, such as on the basis of tenders. I think it is reasonable that the private market will be responsible for the production of land information that then the state and rural areas need to carry out legal projects, but it is important that such data that will be purchased by public funds make available and transmitted to the public, to companies, to rural society, and to other governments. For example, Iceland's soil readings use telemetry data obtained by airplanes or satellite mainly during reviews of maps and land databases and seeks the Agency to produce such data in cooperation with other public bodies in order to achieve the most practicality. The focus for Iceland's national analysis is to work on development and presentation of new instruments for the processing and use of data and has changed its role since producing data to carry out quality monitoring on data that others will earn but that will be used for or for the safety of the public. Second, the bill suggests that Iceland's soil records can maintain and transmit national information bases in agreement with other governments. Is this in harmony with the aim of the law No. 44/2011, on the basis of digital land information, to build and maintain such government data and ensure access to governments and the public. According to the above laws, Iceland's National Research Centre shall be a national information mystery. The purpose of this adjustment is to ensure the harmony of their laws, i.e. No. 44/2011, fix land measurements and basic maps. As a result, the stage will be a step toward establishing a wide range of land information bases in this country. Finally, in the bill, it is suggested that Iceland's National Research Act be released. This is in line with the fact that Iceland's National Research Centre has been free since January 23, 2013, which has led to a huge increase in the use of data. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u21	Mr. President. I think that this case is entirely the most important and will agree with the highest. Minister when she referred to the fact that last year access to Iceland's National Research was granted without charge. This greatly increased the use. This is in harmony with technology development, and I think it's important. I think it matters that it is then determined by canceling the fee. I also agree with the highest degree. A minister of it, and has been for 20 years that the best thing to do is that the private market will provide the necessary collection of data and the public will buy them and the medium will continue on free of charge through this portal. I believe that everything that has been attributed here is a positive factor. As we have come to these matters, we know that it was a long time to criticize the accuracy of the data covered by the soil readings. This bill, in effect, disappears from the data that the Agency has to provide for resolution of 1:50. Ten thousand. However, this bill does not contain any special new scale. So I would like to ask: " Of what degree, in what sort of resolution will the land information that will be imparted in the future be? And what exactly can be provided based on the material that is pale and will be purchased or already be contained by the Agency?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for a good word about the bill, he's obviously a man who's been thinking about it and taking care of it. I'll get to the senator's question right away. I told it in my speech earlier that the standard scale was issued, but we believe that soil readings can develop the basis of information and provide it with the precision, as it says here, which is needed for each occasion and technology, so that the Agency can take better care of its role. We would like to encourage, or enable, the Agency to provide, at any given time, the most accurate information and provide the best information. Hence, it was decided not to set a standard scale or one set of standards, for it may have become out - of - date after one, two years that we consider to be the best today. I believe that there is a great need for modern research and pride in having been able to make this suggestion. Many tourists also make many changes, but this needs to be done so that all the digital data on bottoms and hills, ravines, and canyons in this country will be most accessible. But once again, I thank the senator for his positive response.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u23	Mr. President. The scale currently in use, or spent decades, of 1:50. 000, he didn't fall out of heaven, it wasn't. There was a special reason for its use. There were data that we could get free at the time from the U.S. Army here. They were in that confusion. However, we have been aware of this in recent years, as it were. There have been debates about the use or protection of natural plants, such as natural science institutions, which have had to be thoroughly defined for habitats and multiplicity of life in areas where there may be a need to walk, have not always been able to use the data to which geologic data have been available. They have had to earn it in some other way or have paid for it, since they have not been able to use data that have been on a scale above 1:25. 000. Hence, that is likely to be the lowest human use in the future. What I was wondering about, and the question really included: Do the geologic readings contain any data that is distorted and cover a considerable amount of land surfaces that are on that scale? Is not most of the data the Agency acquired or received on a scale of 1:50. 000? And it's just what's referred to here that everything is changing. Our jobs are changing. We can see that travel services are moving forward. A vast number of people arrive in Iceland, and the number of people who have to go up to the highlands is, of course, because they experience some kind of deterioration or simply get lost and lost. It is in such circumstances, when people are in search and rescued, that is needed for very detailed land information in high resolutions. Will special hierarchies be introduced to the Agency's gaining power over the most versatile tourist areas in the highlands? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u24	A respectable president. Once again, I thank the senator. This is absolutely correct. The Agency now has a scale of 1:50. 000 people and, by law, cannot have a better or better resolution. But we say with the bill that we are not going to do national readings. Many private people have even better data than we have and public institutions, just as the senator could regarding the Institute of Natural Science. However, if the bill becomes a law, the government's institutions can gain the benefits and potential to unite in the purchase and rent of private information, such as on the basis of an issue, so that the data can be purchased and found at national level. That's what this is all about. But it's an onion that the senator says we sensed that this is a barrier the way the situation is today, and we want it to be removed. Therefore, among other things and also to agree that the data will be set free so that they will also benefit the public not only from the institutions of the state but also in general, by establishing a national information problem. I'm surprised we don't see any more of Porta's senators in here, but we're trying to use this digital information technology. [[Up front.]] But, hey. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is gonna cover all this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story, and will merely add words. I think it's important in all matters that we look at the big picture and it's simply that, despite having done very well in the last few months - we're returning the baseless funds, the power to buy is growing in the country, jobs to increase, etc. - we'll still be in that situation, just like many of the countries we compare with, that we owe too much, interest costs are higher than any cost we spend on the Land Hospital and health insurance. It is not included in the Penitentiary of Pension bonds, but, totally unchanged, the Penitentiary of the State is going to fail in 2027, which means that the government needs to contribute more than 20 billion dollars. every year for at least ten years and then some less. This means that we must prioritize our government, for in addition, we focus on a dramatic change in the population's ages, which will require us to place more money on health care and on other matters related to it. Therefore, when you see an institution like this, National Standards of Iceland, you wonder if there is an opportunity to reevaluate the role of the State for the simple reason that we all know and do not have to be experts in the case to see that the recent years and decades have seen an enormous change in this area. We all know that the Internet has access to how easy it is, e.g. accessing various maps and other sources. As shown in a paper with the bill and in the financial coverage of the office, private people are very prominent in this market. There is no need for us to compete with the government when it is not needed. In accordance with the nature of the issue, our goal is to make sure that there is the best information, but it does not necessarily mean that it is the best government to do. I want to attract the attention of the United States of Congress and of what is it? A committee on this matter is the review of the Office of Economic and Economic Affairs with the bill. It points to the following, so I'll read from the review directly, with the permission of a president: If the bill remains unchanged, the law is uncertain how it affects these enterprises in the long-term private market, which are now selling the available data that exist to make it available and free of charge and must be produced by the government. However, in this relationship it can also be considered to increase access to non-employable data that may promote innovation in the processing and implementation of the private market. Later, on the same page, the president's permission says: In this regard, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs calls attention to the lack of a comprehensive assessment of the potential impact of the policy of granting free access to public data. The need for this assessment is complete, but the collection or production of such data may result in substantial costs for the state funds that will be financed in some way, although there is no significant amount of money involved in this case. It also matters whether those who use this information and data will pay for the use or whether the costs will be applied to others by general taxation. Similarly, a branch written in the Morning newspaper a few days ago after Arnar Sigurðsson is a little stronger. I'm going to read a fraction from that article, with the permission of a president, which deals with this bill that the writer is very against. It says: The bottom line of the story is that the only source of the Agency's maps loved by the dance council and then the U.S. Army were found to be superseded when private citizens began maping the country from mountain to shore of land. Thus, there is a high solution of maps of the whole country used for all practical projects, for search and rescue, for organizational work, and for guidance. In other words, out - of - date military cards have been replaced. Surprisingly, some 270 million each year to Iceland's National Monitorings never yielded their own land measurements, much less an entire map! In fact, the Agency reminds us of Iceland's geological record, undeniably, at the hospital in the ◯Yes Minister of Ministers, who had no patients to exceed their plans. I will not evaluate what this article says. I don't know the details of the Agency's activities. What I do here is attract attention. A Senate Committee that will cover the bill and the Supreme Court. A minister's importance is to look at the matter in the overall context with the goal of not using public funds where we do not need it. If we are in that position to do something that we are going to do in a direct or indirect way, it is more reasonable to make use of it elsewhere and then in a basic service. At the same time, we must plan what it costs, as stated in the review of the financial office, at least we need to know what it will mean if the bill succeeds, and in a greater sense we are going to offer a nonprofit service that is now paid for. We need to know what it takes and who to pay for it. When that is the case, we can take our stand on it. I'll admit, once you've worked on it. The budget and the interest groups in which we look for food can call it, and we look for ways to save money in the government business, so you look at things from this point of view. No matter where we are in politics, everyone is convinced that we want to do basic services very well, and there is a growing demand for it. In addition, we have these high interest costs, and while we do not expect the pension bonds to come to our payment, we are in an orderly manner reducing the quality of our children and our grandchildren. It's so simple. That's why I think it's very important to look at the bill from the viewpoints I've traced here and trust in it. Committee of Congress as well as the highest. Minister and government will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u26	Madam President. I believe that it will improve the lives of our children in the future if they can make wise decisions about the use of the land they will inherit based on accurate information. It has been described as standing completely on the edge. On the other hand, I understand why. Senator. He is another strategist to wonder if this is part of a private market, and the evidence can be reasoned. In effect, when freedom of charge was given at some point in the previous year, people stopped chargein' for this information, the appeal went up immensely. It is possible that until that time, the same information may have been acquired on the market by paying for it. In itself, it could somehow weaken some company that has sold such a service. On the other hand, the bill should be viewed as a sign of the fertile cooperation of the private market and the public. It consists of the following: National and Officials should not produce the data. They're supposed to buy data from the people who produce it in a private market. That's how I understand the bill. I would count because of the lack of digital data on land information in high resolution that this called - perhaps not this year, I see how it is done in the bill - the public opportunity to build up such databases. We know of a large task that has not been successful because of lack of it, and we have not been able to live up to international commitments because of lack of it. With organized work at the power of this bill, it can be solved and also created a project for the private market. That's how I get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u27	A respectable president. As I understand the criticism of a financial office, certain things are now paid to be taken advantage of. If it is to be done so as to be free, it reduces the nature of the matter according to its motivation to produce it. For example, suppose we are not going to place enough money on this project, which simply reduces the fact that maps will be available in Iceland. That's how I understand this criticism. I think that's at least no. One that we know what this means. Where are we taking this? Here, a man who knows the matter very well, I refer to the highest level. former environmental minister who had this group of lawsuits at his time, and I do not doubt that one second of the time. paritaprevir As a result, Skarphéðinsson's osstensibly knows about Iceland's National Research operation better than the one standing here, but we need to know where we're going. Are we here stating that we will reduce the motivation to produce maps and such information, whether it is an electronic map or something else? It's all going to be free. Then we will reduce the impulse to get the accurate information as a matter of course. A senator referred to him. But the big thing seems to me, and this, of course, is a result: How are we going to earn the taxpayers' money? We agree that we want to be the most accurate information. If someone's concern is to provide accurate information, we may not need to worry as much as if it were so that no one would be interested in it or if it was about those who are ill or who need help. This is what I think is the big thing, and we need to get the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u28	Mr. President. This is a totally legitimate view. A senator is in. In effect, it is about a core question: Are we spending money on things that are not needed? That's the core question. Hv. A senator also wondered if the bill will lead to a state's potential to purchase money from taxes that are not exactly needed. I seriously doubt it because I don't see that the bill has an inborn impulse to do so. I simply think a project that will call for data. I specifically mention that we have an approved frame plan. It includes all kinds of activation options, some controversial but also benefits that are approved. None of those who have been blessed will be attacked until they have made accurate assessments of the consequences and life forms of everything if they are not already there, and most of those waiting will likely be determined unless they are on the basis of such data and the more accurate they are, the better. The existing database was not sufficient, unfortunately. This was the case right away during the year 1994, when I joined this seminary and became acquainted with it. I think the need for such information is going to rush the government's purchase and I don't see that it will result in unnecessary spending of money. On the contrary, I don't think that the motivation that is already in the private market is to create these data. But it may well distribute in some way or change their composition, or it may affect individual companies. But then I'd like to say, because this article was referred to in the following article by Arnar Sigurðsson that I strongly deny that geology has never produced any information in its time. [[The president calls.]] I remember that at the time as a environmental minister, I was fighting for flying money for them so that the ideal institution could go to it and continue to form the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u29	A respectable president. Arnar Sigurðsson is not here to answer, but he said that it seems amazing to have 270 million. K. Every year to Iceland's country surveys never return their own land measurements, much less an entire map reserve. There are words from the writer. I feel that after I have listened to this brief talk. The senator said that if there is a particular need to investigate something for the proposed activation or otherwise, the nature of the matter must be determined to do so. Those who intend to go into such activation should pay it, not taxpayers, that is my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u30	Data will be created and free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u31	Yes, exactly, that's where we're at the heart of the matter. There's something special about a project that hopefully will benefit someone, and I believe that a person should pay for it, not for the common people with his taxes. I think that's pretty obvious. I think the core of the problem is that we're always discussing this from an institution instead of discussing it from what we want the government to do. I think that's the big thing. We want to make sure there's information, but I don't think maps are the problem. But I travel quite a bit around the country, and I have not had any problem with a map, at least not as a public tourist.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u32	You get lost a lot too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u33	Hv. A senator insists that I get lost a lot, but it has nothing to do with the maps. It's just that the person standing here is very often distracted. I'm sorry it's going to be part of a conference talk, but I have to accept it. There are too many people who know that I get lost very often, but I hope that things are right now as I get older and less out of my league. But the big thing is, we need to act in this as something else, what do we want the kingdom to do? What should the taxpayers' money go to for? Two hundred and seventy-five million. K. go to this institution, they don't go to nursing room. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u34	A respectable president. First of all, I want to celebrate because this case has come up and thank you very much. Minister for her history. This is a very good and important matter, and it can be said, in part, that there should be a set of procedures that have been in the pipe for several years. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Össur's nurse, son of Skarphéðinsson, has been in the middle of a long time when we would have to adjust more of our legal equipment for maps in Iceland. Because men were only talking about the importance and need for land information and data in general, I think it's very important, as shown in the case of the year. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson's son not to get stuck in talking about it from certain institutions. Land information is important, especially in living countries such as Iceland, where there are new mountains just as we stand here and chats, land is expanding to the sea and shrinking in other places, land fragment is wide, rivers moving, glaciers are going to become, etc. All of this causes changes in a living country. It is not just for our enjoyment and joy that we need to hold these changes. Rather, we have certain obligations to our citizens in the country that have to deal with mapping and a view of nature. We need a map to talk about flood control, we need a map to talk about natural disasters like avalanches, to put a risk on what concerns glaciers, volcanic eruptions, etc., all this work is based on land information. Then I'd like to mention as much the many discussions that have become a land user. We have a structured program, but we can also talk about nature protection, transport plans, and now our last energy transport system. All these systems need land information. Farming, breeding, road systems, everything calls for land information. Away from the private resources that pay for the data or taxpayers, it all adds up to the cost of something, it is more practical and better for the community and for the community as a whole that these data are as good as being as opening, i.e. All of these, both public and private members, can have access to them as well as with the argument that the community owns these data, and therefore they are to be accessible to the whole community. We may then come to the ideologies behind the decision that was actually made in January 2013 by reimbursement, which was then involved in making data in the possession of the European Commission free of charge. In fact, it was on the basis of the ideologies that all data purchased with public funds should be accessible. These data, such as national file or real estate, or any of the information we gather on the terms of the public, are also to be available to the same public, including communication to other governments, rural communities, and, most important, and then I am only involved in the verbal exchange. Councilmen before me, to companies. Hv. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson was concerned about the role of a private member in this bill, and perhaps he was primarily looking at the end that attracts the benefits. But let us not forget the side that attracts the stimulation of employment, i.e. increased potential for development, testing and innovation. In fact, there was a complete explosion after the data opened in 2013, especially in a private market. All kinds of innovation and development companies were able to access these data, thus being able to build on this development and development project for tourism, for tourism, for nature protection organizations, etc. All of this had the basics, the materials, to work out rather than being dependent on the basics or making them. It has also been an independent subject, and I know it after being in the Environment Ministry that more than one agency is working to develop, develop, maintain, and share the information and even many institutions under the same department. The National Institute of Nature has its data, and Iceland's Weather Service has its own data. By the bill, we contribute to the better use of public funds to prevent or reduce the potential for double and multiple action in these areas. This too is positive. I have empathy and understanding of private views, and I think it is understandable that people are concerned that they will lose their money. I, however, feel that way myself, so I may be more relaxed about opening data, but it was noted in the matter. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son, that releasing the data will be directly designed to stimulate the innovation and development that are just so important. We saw that after these data were released, so to speak, instead of opening Google Maps, we saw only a white surface and one yellow line leading to the road, we are now seeing more on maps because the access of the data has become available. I welcome the bill and, actually, because it's getting even more involved in the previously existing decisions. It was suggested in 2011 that a general land information base, which would contain detailed and detailed national information that governments need because of legal projects, as stated in the Article by the bill, is established and then in 2013 it is decided that the data will be set free. This is in accordance with the general requirement for increased transparency, i.e. That in general it is so that the public should not have to go long distances to attend what really belongs to him. I think we can agree that data collected for the public costs must be available to the same public, at least to the common people. Take my stand on this matter. I'm not going to extend the discussion in particular. I thought I should just come into her here and explain this position. It was shown in excellent contrast to the highest. Ministers to the map base are as accurate as the Geographic Will, and there is a definite change that soil readings are not bound as they used to be. It's a progressive process, and I second, I think it's a great improvement for us to take this step to complete the opening of the data, we're increasing the possibility of developing national research on holding these data but at the same time strengthening the aspects of the community that need strong and safe land information. In this context, what is vital is to stimulate innovation and development in the commercial world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the subject, the good and illuminating speech, and it's interesting for us who are not acquainted with the exact operation of Iceland's National Research, to listen to two of the former tops. A minister and one present are perfunctory about the subject and knowledge, and that's fine. I'm glad to hear that. A senator agrees with me not to look at projects from institutions. To hear the noise would be informative. A senator reviews that it is a mapmaking that seems a little different than we thought some years ago when you had a map that you used when traveling through the country or in other countries. Now it's all in the computers, the iPads, and what's the name of it all, and you use the cards first and foremost. But I didn't realize that there are many other government agencies that have this, too. Hv. A senator said that it should not be looked at from places I agree with. As I listen to the discussion more, I feel that this is about some kind of program for what the government should put in when it comes to mapmaking and then why. After listening to two of the former guys. In fact, a minister feels that there is no special need for an institution like Iceland's soil readings. The more I listened to it. I became more convinced that the evidence that would be free would be open to me. There may be sound reasons, at least for what has already been done, and it disturbs me, as it were, even though it has benefited from the benefits of a U.S. international company, we all do. But I think it's about what we're doing in the future and what we're doing. A senator mentioned that this had to do with road construction and activities, etc. I think there's a lot of that clean stuff that I can get at home with the partners who take advantage of it, i.e. that they pay for it when someone puts on something that is not directly useful to the public. At least it takes a little further to convince me that the state should pay for it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It's a little steep by then. A senator to draw conclusions from my speech that Iceland's soil records are unnecessary. As an excellent report on the case, it is important to have knowledge of exactly the information available on land information, that data services and digital land information, observation services, download services aimed at reaching these data, projections services, which are involved in the coordination of data between institutions, etc. So there is a wide range of expertise, which is actually about the acquisition, preservation, and sharing of land information. Then there is the development of the government's founding system another discussion that can be handled with certainty and in a positive and upbuilding way. I'd also like to mention it here because there's an action that didn't particularly appear, but that's why. A senator referred to the twofold maps that we all know, which are walking cards and maps that we have in the case when we walk or drive around the country, a growing demand and a volunteer in three-dimensional data, i.e. The possibility of directly calling out information on three dimensions or on the landscape as well as the way you travel through it, not just in the case of landscapes but also in the case of organization. That methodology has grown very intense, rather than looking at an organization, and then both its main and shared structure, as a two-way project, can be viewed as a three-dimensional subject so that they can imagine themselves within houses of different sizes and sizes, and close to different landscapes, etc. and make informed decisions on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u37	A respectable president. Every time you talk about ideas that you feel are radical, like laying down an organization, you go in trouble. It is the nature of humans, and it is natural that we are left with organizations that were originally set up for something completely different. The role of the institution is changed rather entirely because it must not be put down for some reason, we know it. However, I feel that we should look at this from the following questions: What do we want the government to do? How do we want to set priorities for our tax dollars? This is 270 million. K. who go to the institution. Is it not ideal to take advantage of the university to gain the knowledge that we have? A senator rightly mentioned the need to be there? Would it just not work very well together, and could it not be done with a smaller amount of money, at least one part of it, and at the same time strengthen the university? That's what I was wondering. Hv. A senator brings up plans, ideas, plans, plans, or ideas, surely meaning the present, and tomorrow it will certainly be past, for something new will be revealed. I think there must be endless possibilities in this, absolutely infinite. How exciting it is to go into it, and it is even more important to consider the best priorities in these matters. There's an endless source, for all innovations. It is said that there should be nothing free of charge to pay with public money. This is certainly true of rural society, too, when it comes to sharing and organization. It's at the hands of the locals. It's all very exciting. We must prioritize government funds. What we use in this institution is not used in what we are said to be the norm. [[The president calls.]] It is very important to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u38	A respectable president. I think we basically agree that the most important thing to do is to watch a project and the subject of the government out of the projects as such rather than from some surface of the institutions; I completely agree with that. On the other hand, I hear during the discussion here, in speech, and in answer to the question. A senator thought it would be a good idea for him to visit Iceland's Landstay, and he realized what all that work is doing. Although Iceland's National Institutes for State, which is not necessarily a favorite concept. A senator, as I understand it, is an extremely progressive and ambitious organization, and it is an institution that has received a new creation reward and has served the lead more often than not in looking to the future. Rather than being a guard of the tree or of old crafts, it moves primarily forward. I can see why. A senator didn't say this, but I'd like to impress him on the matter and study Iceland's Land Mall. I think it would be a pleasure for him, and more than that, to have him visit and review these projects because they surprise you. [[Are you sure?]] As I went to visit the Department of Geographic as a minister, I was elated about how impressive an institution there is and how many exciting projects there are. You realize how important it is to think outside the box, which is more often than not the old card in your back pocket.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u39	Madam President. I was sorry to hear that. paritaprevir Gudleful Þórðarson sometimes finds it difficult to find its way into the wild. I thought it was all about his political walk. True, there are many who are always ready for counsel and help. That's what I've done many times, like what's happened. A senator knows, yet I have never reaped but thankless for it. [[Take it up: right.]] On the other hand, they may be able to cope with mental disorders. A senator lives by picking up the progressive food. This includes eating a large amount of blood vessels or some other iron - rich food, as it has been found that human sensitivity in nature is based on the amount of magnetic iron particles in your nose. I'd be all alone just to look at the nose of a man. A senator but recommends a blood - rich option. So let's see if he's not doing well and there's something other than being out - of - date, for it seems to me that he is the most understanding of people, that all the senses are very open, and that I am grateful to him for that. In this discussion, I think that there have been a number of factors pointing to the fact that this is taking a very positive step. I'm happy with this bill for two things. First, I am glad that the present government continues what the last government began in January 2013, to offer the public evidence of this kind without charge. It was newer than ever. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir was acting out of control. Environment and resource minister in his day. It was not particularly controversial, but it was in the spirit of the government's policy, which was trying to build on transparency and love. It's a joy that's at the end of the day. The Environment and Resource Minister is following this path and can be considered a proof of quality on the part of the current government for at least this aspect of the last government. Second, I view myself in the absence of Pirata as an honor pill in this discussion, and on behalf of us, I rejoice in making data and documents over which the state has access to the Internet available to all the majority of the people, free of charge. It's in the spirit of the policy that the piranha of all classes run. I also believe that this bill has taken an enchant in the market. At one time, there was a heated debate over whether the geologic readings, as they did back then, should be to get their own information by renting airplanes, and sometimes more than one, who went and took pictures to give us the land information needed to live in order to attack many complex decisions. At the time, there were some things that were to be found in a private market, and I felt that way at the time. This step has long since been taken, and I believe that the step to the highest. A minister is now taking something even more positive than the first. I believe that in the way that this has been done, there is no evidence that any form of unnecessary purchase of information is being attacked. On the contrary, I think it depends solely on the need for a number of government institutions to build on such data, but the other is absolutely clear that it will lead to a business that directly specializes in the market for such information. I get it at the highest. Minister, and perhaps not paying close attention to the trend, that at times data need a much higher resolution than I've spoken of here. I know from an ancient experience with a plant of natural science that thought he could use less resolution than 1:25. 000, however, know that in many cases a person needs to be much more accurate and have much more detailed information and go down to as much as 1:5,000 or less, depending on the nature of a project. At the very least, the barrier that could be said to have been in the current law is that the Agency has no obligation to control or give up data, geographic information, which was on a higher resolution than that. That makes me feel very positive. I also rejoice over the information that is going on. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir's crisis that when this change was made in 2013, there has been some growth on the basis of new enterprises that were hatching or being founded as ideas on the basis of this new currency information beginning to produce products that many people can take advantage of, small companies that some will never be very large, but some may grow and thrive. That's a good thing. That's why I liked it because in this discussion between two good associates, I liked chapters. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir would be defending the bill from the marketist's viewpoint as the objector in the case is, however. paritaprevir Gullified Þórðarson, would have come a little more to the left, but I may not always understand the depth of the word. Senator. [[Up front.]] I'm happy to do it. On the other hand, a sledgehammer. paritaprevir When Gudgle Þór Þórðarson, later in his next round, felt that information was still there. Svavarsdóttir In fact, the Svandís would have shown him that the Agency could be put down, or that he could create, some form of shopping land information that could be stored within the government's Penitentiary, or God knows what. So I'll explain it to you outside. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thord, the Þór of Þórðarson, and therefore of the highest. Councilmen, why I believe that in this bill there is no automatic incentive for further spending, I want to say: Firstly, I agree that we should always be careful with the taxpayers' money, and if this bill were to include, for example, some independent impulse for land reading to start loading information, very precise and good that may not be needed, you might agree with the opinion that there was some kind of irritation in the bill to do that. But my experience is that this information has always been obtained because it has been called for. And what is it that calls for them? It's some kind of project. They can be of many ways. Activates, such as I mentioned, boundaries of reservations, parks, roads, distances between administrative units, and most important, can be considered by a precise database of digital information literally the basis of the private right, it is the base of capitalism. It can be seen because only in that way, studying them with hard work in the old way, can you quickly see on the basis of high maps and high resolutions where the limits of soil lie. We know that it has been written by complete books, that the lack of it in distant continents such as Africa has led to the failure to produce a market economy, because men could not sell countries - and in that part of the world it was a foundation and a calm bet if they were going to borrow some kind of business - because it could not be demonstrated where the ground was. That's what I'd like to say. This also matters to us about the State Realty and other things and has been mentioned as evidence that we need to get rid of such things. To put it this way, I believe that it is an assignment that will bring up such information. Then they're on the other side, and once they're in government custody, these laws will say that the public can have them free of charge. And then the raisin comes in the hot dog end, which I know we are. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þórðarson's God - dishonoring knelt with great pleasure: Of course, the payment for this initial process of information will be paid by its user, in the vast majority of cases by the people involved. So I'm not sure that this will lead to the end of any special cost to the state. I mean, in that case if there's some kind of construction project, it's probably the builder and its people pay it back. For information such as an institution such as the Institute of Natural Science or the Need for Work, there are two reasons why it can be used. First, the information she is working for some kind of project such as activations, evaluating the consequences of the activations in certain areas, or in order to demonstrate that Iceland is under measures to which it has been dropped by international commitments. I'll mention the Bern contract, the biodiversity contract, etc. At some point, it would have been necessary for a fund to become an institution of such information, and that is exactly what has happened here in recent years. I'm not going to get tired. A senator's job is to add IPA to it, and that's not a big part of the IPA strengths, I'm talking about 250 million. K. Or more, it was to help a plant of natural science to live up to certain commitments to Europe. Madam President. I review this in this way to show that from my standpoint, this does not include an independent financial bonus. On the other hand, it is possible that those who wrote the assessment of the State's budget might think differently for long periods of time. They agree that this bill, in itself, does not lead to increased financial expenses for government funds for a while, but they believe that it could, in the long run, affect the expenses of a government fund. There I feel that they merely want the logical flight because they're talking about how the government is forced to buy information, which, of course, will cost money, but I'm saying that in most cases they would get money from a third party. In such cases, the cost fell because the State depended on various commitments that it needs and has shouldered. Also, what matters is that it seems to me that the bill is, in fact, taking the long course of action to prevent, for example, what we have examples, that humans or organizations in the State field or other public bodies, such as partners, buying the same information, or having the same information won. I think this bill, by having such an open access through a specific port, goes far by closing that possibility. In the end, I think there's a lot to recommend the bill. For one thing, the first government's policy is to continue as free information on geographic data in digital form. Second, the princely rule is that the state should try to open its information fund as its interests permit and possible without any other public interest being damaged. Third, it is likely to contribute to the growth of small enterprises which can work out the data they receive without charge from Iceland's soil analysis. Fourth, I also think that this will lead to the loss of double-works, which include the loss of the same information from different public parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders for a fine talk that was very illuminating. Though I've met many sides of the whale. Then a senator informed him that he is something I did not know he was, he is also a nutritionist, went over it on a Senate speech, of course thank you. [[Up front.]] And you're right about what you're doing. A senator that when he tries to direct me in the political way, he has always experienced a complete lack of appreciation, and I have faith that there will be something like that. It is interesting, however, that we have finally found a transparency in the last government, and that was on this matter. But I think I recognize this idea from the moment I was president of a man. Environment Committee. She had come, if I remember correctly, from the United States, i.e. The idea of having access to such basic information free, and we in ourselves are not arguing about it, but it really is about it. Of course, the cost of a new map and so on must be considered; what should be free of charge? I've been a customer, or I've been doing business with Iceland's Geographic, which remains, as far as I know a great agency, but it's not about that. It's about priorities and what we want to do with our tax dollars. There was free access to that card, but if I remember correctly, because it grew into a production, you had to pay something for it. The public cannot be expected to give everyone information in the form they just want, it would be absurd, at least I think it is. True, I have to admit that African friendship, I think it's true. A senator needs to take better care of that. But maybe this is the solution, and we're just getting together on that, that Iceland's soil readings will be our contribution to development in Africa. If I understand why. A senator's problem with Africa was that one such organization was missing there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u41	Madam President. Regarding Africa, it was written in one of the most famous books in the last decade on the inhibitors of Europe's evolution. One of the main factors was the lack of geographic information about delinquency. Hence, those living there could not look for, for example, the banking institutions that were then making room for loans and seeking loans because they had only lands, but they failed to demonstrate the limitation of land. Hence, it was mandatory when borrowing came and people simply could not start a business. It's well known. In Iceland this institution is also needed and has been specifically referred to as one of the institutions that can provide very detailed information on global decomposition. It matters. But other than that, I think that our discussed arguments here have revealed that I am and am. paritaprevir The Gullful Þór of Þórðarson is to this degree quite agree. Of course, I will continue to try to guide him in order to get his way. I often think he's a bit disoriented, especially in his political error. But it doesn't matter that I know that I will reap nothing for my efforts other than thankfulness, but it doesn't matter that I will continue to do so because, despite all the considerable faith in the exercise capacity of a man. At the end of the day, a senator may be able to make a point of understanding my views. Thank you. A senator for a good sound, as it is not always possible for me to give him a speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u42	A respectable president. I don't need any special instructions from what? A senator when it comes to politics because by automatically, only by communicating with me, he always moves closer and closer to us right men. He was naturally a radical in his younger years, and I've seen pictures of him from the university, and all I need is a look at the movie to see what it was. A senator has now developed well, moving from the wild left of Icelandic politics to the center of his life. [[Up front.]] And now it's a whisk. A senator came here to explain that Africa's problems involve lack of market and special rights. A respectable president. It just happens all the way through our verbal exchange here in the conference hall, and I'm very happy to see what I'm getting at the moment. Of course, a member of the council is not finished on this journey. So more important, which is this case, I think that what. The panel needs to review the comments that have been made on whether this calls for an increase of costs or not. Even so, no matter what the senator says, it is not enough, it is not enough, it is not enough, a respectable president. We need to know, and we need to know what it means to be free of charge. Of course, it's not free of charge, but it's about what's free of charge, because it's a big issue. It's not enough for the data to exist. Who should pay for their presentation so that the person can use them each time? This focuses on the role of the government. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and what. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir has made an conscious and unconscious point that it would be wise to look at this from that point of view: What will the State do, and how will it be financed? [[The president calls.]] And they are conscious and unconscious to speak for shopping policies or departments within the government's headquarters on land measurements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u43	A respectable president. I thank the educational and well - thought - out talks that have included a great deal of knowledge on various matters - perhaps not necessarily regarding what is involved in national analysis and land information, they may have covered a bit wide, but they certainly have imparted knowledge to speakers in many areas. I want to thank you for that speech. I certainly didn't expect, when I recommended this excellent bill, that it had a value of entertainment, but you never know what could become fun in this life. In the short time I've been doing what I've been doing at this time, I've noticed that one word for a password, almost in any institution I come, no matter who I speak of, and it's become a maping process. I began my first days in office to visit various institutions, and I was always brought to maps. I visited the company of Isor, and it was the rocks that had to be examined. Sadly, they would have only a limited portion of the country, but the staff said it was very cool what they had completed. Then it was a natural institution. In urine analysis, people said that they did not have an accurate map of height thresholds, which are often changing. Then it was at the Weather Service. That's exactly what we're talking about here, that it can be increased by a digital map type, that's what it's all about. Then it's all normal and it's a map, so we have it all in one place. This is of utmost importance, such as regarding all these travels, relatively strangers, around the highlands, known where the canyons are below, etc. That's what's going on. At present, there is no plan to set up an extra budget for the National Research Centre. Official agencies, as I said in my history speech, are buying data from private sources, and we are not going to cancel it. It's natural for a private person to continue doing so. But these government agencies, the Road Building, the Weather Service, and the Natural Science Institute - and I'm sure I don't know what it is - are buying data. Perhaps the invitations could be carried out so that the data bought for the state would be cheaper, thus saving public funds. I'm told it should be more saving. I can still totally understand emotions and arguments. paritaprevir Guðlaugur, son of Þór, the god of Þórðarson. The first time I came to this point, I also asked the questions he has raised here. It's very good to ask that question. You have to think about it. I've been doing some serious research on this case, maybe some of it was in a gray area, I just want it to come out here. But I was convinced that the public's safety will be more secure by the coordination of these data, so it would be unnatural to change the role of the National Research project, that it is unnatural in the law that they are unable to impart better information than 1:50. 000 - to have that number in your bill today as the speed of technology is not possible. And then again the other team, such as with this inefficiency - we see that there has been an increase in the use, research, and other developments that have taken place since then. It's important that the committee reviews this. She has the excellent talks and tips here, and I believe that this is the best part of the commission work. I firmly believe that the committees will find out, as I did after studying the matter, that this is necessary. Then it is a completely different matter, whether organizations can be united, put down, or whether their roles will change. I think that discussion we need to take, not in connection with this bill. I'm ready to reason, and I'd like to point out that the quality and well-runned land readings, such as former environmental Ministers, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, have received many recognition, started on their own initiatives, whether it was not right for Iceland's national records to be joined in some way. I was very sorry to find out that it did not happen, but there is an organization that is constantly looking at the future and isn't shutting itself up in a paradox, is ready to expand its activities, to unite, or whatever else we should look at the overall picture. Therefore, it is impossible to make this institution more modern, making it better equipped for its fine work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u44	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of equal status and male and female equal rights, no. 10/2008, with subsequent changes. The changes that the bill assumes become a law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men are in accordance with other early bills. On the one hand, there is a bill presented to the 141th legislature of 20123/42013, but the bill did not receive material coverage at that assembly. However, it is a bill that was submitted to the 2013/2014 Legal Council of 143 and was agreed on for other elements involved in the nature of the 2004/13/EC Directive on the application of the principles on equal management of women and men in the access and delivery of goods and services, as per the Committee on General and Education. 1096, 176. The EFTA monitoring agency called the European Commission on the EFTA Court for the violation of the European Economic Convention on the European Economic Area, where the above directive had not been fully implemented in this country. Then, on January 28, the EFTA Court passed judgment. Since the Court decided that the Icelandic government had violated its commitments on the basis of the European Economic Area Convention where they had not implemented a directive. A respectable president. In view of what I've traced above, I believe it is very important that this bill receive a quick but careful payment at a council. The bill suggests that national information on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of women and men should be implemented on behalf of access to and dispensing of goods and services, but the directive has been submitted to the European Economic Code. The directive contains measures aimed at preventing discrimination based on gender in terms of access to and dispensing of products as well as access and services with the objective of implementing the principles of equal treatment of women and men. The bill suggests that a controlled directive will be introduced by a change of the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men. In this regard, in particular, I would like to see that the bill was made by consultation with the Directorate of Employment and Development, whether it would be better to implement the directive with a change in insurance law or insurance law, but the result had to be made by a change in the law of equal status and equal rights between women and men. In addition, it should be noted that already there are other requirements of the directive, such as those given here, by law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men. The bill assumes that the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men will be added to specific regulations that prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender on the basis of access to or dispensing to products as well as access or services, but may be comparable in terms of violations of discrimination based on gender on pay and other benefits as at work and at recruitment, such as 25 and 26. The law. The objective of the bill is to prevent discrimination on the basis of gender, in terms of access or delivery to products as well as access to or services, with the intention of enforcing the principle of equal treatment between women and men. According to the principle, access to or dispensing of products is expected and access to or providing services is not less favorable to another sex. A respectable president. I give particular emphasis on the fact that the bill is not meant to limit the freedom of the people in general. A person offering goods or services may have many mental reasons for choosing a contract. Therefore, the bill will not prevent partners from being free as long as the selection is not based solely on the party's gender. It is assumed that the prohibition against discrimination under the bill applies to all parties who provide products and provide services available to the public market as well as on public markets, including public bodies. The bill shows that using the term "empty products" refers to manufacturing products in the sense of the European Community's Convention on Free Products, as well as 8 pars. The European Economic Area Convention. However, the term "Service " refers to a service that is normally rendered against a welcome in the sense that it does not meet the criteria for free cargo, free capital transport, and free mobilization. Commenting on the bill, it is stated that the European Court's judgments allow for the loss of any kind of job that involves the granting of a remuneration service. It does not seem to matter what arrangements are made for such a price or who is in a provoked state. This does not require that a person enjoying the ministry pay for it. I also give particular emphasis that, in line with Article 3. However, it is not expected that this bill applies to family and/or privacy business practices or to work in a labour market. An example of a family and/or private business might be when a person rents a room in a home where the landlord lives, but the standards of the bill are not intended to cover such cases. For further explanation, I would also like to assume that the bill's terms are not expected to apply to insurance related to work in the labour market, whether legal or not. As an example of such guarantees, there are so - called insurance insurance insurance or professional guarantees for certain professions, such as doctors and lawyers. The bill is not expected to eliminate different treatments on the basis of gender if legitimate goals justify access or delivery of products and access to or services are justified only by individuals from the second sex if the methods for reaching the earlier target are necessary. For example, consider the legitimate goals behind a haven set up for the rest of the sex to protect victims of violence. Comments with the bill show that there may be some grounds for gender to justify different treatments if this contributes to gender equality or to improved interests of the other sex, e.g. in the case of a volunteer group designed for the second sex, or when membership in private communities was confined to another sex. Yet, all such restrictions are expected to be appropriate, objective, and essential. It should be noted that all Member States, except Iceland, have introduced the materials of the Commission, including all other Member States than Iceland. So some experience has come to pass on it in other countries, but in comments on the bill, it shows where to obtain a specific report on the experiences of other countries in connection with the introduction of a controlled directive. In the panorama of the General and Education Committee, with a turn-in on bill to legalize the law of No. 10/2008, of the equal positions and equal rights of women and men, with subsequent changes, at the 143th legislation committee mentioned earlier, stated that the Commission should, among other things, delay the implementation of the proposed directive until the committee had the opportunity to study the contents of the above report in order to understand the scope of the directive and hence the bill. Notes with the bill that are presented here include a few examples from the report in order to explain the subject of the bill more accurately. So I will not go out further, but I will encourage senators to study the examples in this country as well as the reports in order to gain a better perspective on the subject of the bill and the changes the bill will bring to this country will remain a law. A respectable president. In order to implement the full content of the earlier directive in this country the bill is issued a ban on the use of sex customers as a level of calculation in relation to the decision of pay or on the decision to raise interest levels due to an insurance agreement or in other related financial services, which lead to differences in the budget or credit levels for individuals. In this country, there have been genders as an impact factor on gambling and other financial services. Thus, in my opinion, the chances are that in some cases the changes expected by the bill will interfere with your insurance policy, such as life and health insurance. Among other things, in order to provide insurance companies with room to respond to the changes the bill allows for the activities it takes as well as space to introduce it to their clients, it is suggested that the bill not take effect until July 1, 2015. However, it may seem short - lived, and I naturally feel that it is overcoming the committee. However, it can be noted that this bill is being submitted for the third time and these rules have been introduced into the entire European Economic Area outside Iceland, so insurance companies should be well aware that it is standing in front of them, i.e. I was going to legalize this. However, in order to avoid a rapid change in the market, it is also suggested that the bill's terms apply only to new agreements relating to access or dispensing of products and access to or services made on July 1, 2015 or later. Of course, the regulations of the bill are not expected to be repetitious, so older contracts will maintain their values despite the law of the bill. In short, I refer to the subject of the bill presented here, and it can be expected that if the law continues, it will result in the equality of the sex in certain areas as well as increasing the rightfulness of both genders on the basis of a law on equal status and the equal rights of women and men. It is also important to assume that the financial and economic costs that if the bill is legalized in the present form, it will not be seen affecting the spending of the state funds. As regards consultation with various parties with the bill's contract, I refer to what is presented in general comments on this subject. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. A top-of-the-art Board of Education that handles the equalities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u45	A respectable president. I realize that it's the best I can do. The minister has not been making this for his own fun. Rather, it is a directive that we will likely have to enforce in some way the agreement with the European Economic Area. Just so I can understand exactly what's going on here, I've only followed this case and listened to a talk at the highest level. Minister, I'd like to wonder. Life insurance agreements and health insurance agreements take into account certain insurance criteria that are primarily based on sex and age. In any case, the women benefit from it because they live longer. If I understand this correctly, it must be the same pay, whether it is a man or a woman, who, of course, is completely absurd, but okay. I just want it confirmed. Is that so? I wondered, " Is something next to me? Is there no longer a time for discrimination? ' The nature of the case suggests that young people are more likely to live longer than older ones. That is why young people pay much lower wages than older ones, just as women pay less than men. It would be nice to get it straight because I think it's important that people know if it's the thought. I don't know if there's access to goods, services, or such things, but I ask, for example, may it be? paritaprevir Will Bjarnason join a female society if this goes through and it can't be shut down? I'm just random about what I'm doing. A senator is standing right in front of me and standing next to the minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In comment, we write 1st par. The bill is passed on the basis of the European Court's sentence from March 1, 2011, in a so-called Test-Achats case dealing with the use of a sex variable in an insurance calculation. In other words, this is expected to remain in the calculation of innuendo charges or on financial interest levels as long as it is not observed in different reimbursements or credit levels for individuals based on gender. It is thus permitted to collect, store, and support gender or gender-related information that does not result in discrimination on the basis of gender. Thus, insurance companies will continue to be allowed to use gender variables to calculate internal risk assessments, in particular the calculation of insurance insurance debt in accordance with the insurance responsoration rules, such as monitoring their clients' gender composition in an insurance mathematical calculation for basic prices. This sentence is almost as complex as insurance math in itself. The guidelines that followed by this judgment show that gender sometimes needs to be taken into account in view of certain physiological differences between men and women. However, in terms of life and health insurance, the costs and benefits of two persons may not be different because they are not of the same sex. However, there may be other risk factors that may lead to discrimination, e.g. Your health or family history, and to evaluate this, you may need to take into account sexual activity in the light of certain physiological differences between men and women. Of course, if it is a family history of breast cancer, it would not affect the health risk of male and female patients as well as the risk assessment. There were also other cases of prostate, breast, or uterus cancer. Then, too, it is clear in the laws here that it is not lawful to place the cost of pregnancy and birth solely on women. [[The president calls.]] They're forbidding discrimination on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u47	A respectable president. It's like the highest. A minister goes over this bill sounds like a perfect bullshit to no one. No wonder the public in Europe has grown quite tired of the growing customs union! It's ridiculous to make special rules to keep women from paying less money for life and health insurance because they're women. That doesn't make any sense. No grammatic evidence recommends that. When it is even more involved by pointing out the obvious, that the quality of health information can still be given, and it may be taken into account that the woman is a woman and that the male is a male, someone might ask if there is no choice. This is a case that is not a problem and has not been. They're creating problems. I hate that we have to be stuck with this. If any of the EU residents think we could have changed this by being in the EU, with five members of 750, I'd like to say that if you were going to go out on that occasion, five Icelandic members of the European Parliament would not have been able to stop this mess. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It's a good thing to know. I asked because I thought that funny bill sounded like it was banning things like being in women's communities or men's clubs. I just wanted to know. Also, the question with a master haircut and a woman's haircut is, "Do you have the same price? Do you have the same value? Do you have the right to take it into consideration? ' [[The president calls.]] It would be good to find answers to these two questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u48	A respectable president. As I stated at the outset, this bill of product and service is being sold and given and to ensure that there is no discrimination on grounds of gender. I have not known that the various companies especially sell services. However, I would like to point out specific examples, as I also noted, in the Equinet report on the implementation of a directive. It highlights examples that affect both women and men. In Romania, for example, there was no room for children to be hospitaled with their fathers, since men were not expected to accompany their children. There were 11 complaints, and the conclusion became a direct discrimination against the fathers in most cases. There is also another example of what we have corrected, but in a Icelandic field, it was a long - term practice that the couple's tax returns were only addressed to the man. We changed it in 1998, so tax returns are always addressed to the senior taxpayer when two people are added. Another example turns toward the haircut like a dog. A senator asked about what seems like to me to be a Finnish example. It would be justified in offering different prices for haircuts on the basis of the need for special knowledge, material, or equipment, and the amount of time that would go to the haircut would be otherwise, not just for a minister to be a woman or a member of the council man. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u49	A respectable president. One of Halldór Laxness's novels considers the barber bill. That bill reminds me of that, but I raised the same questions. The price of goods and services is being discussed, and unfortunately, there are differences between men and women, so that there are no gender differences. It is a product and service. My partner, my boy. paritaprevir Guðlaugur-like Þór, has done a lot about insurance and barbering. So I ask a minister why isn't this bill sent to the Economic and Business Committee? It's about the price of goods and services. Isn't it normal for a bill about these factors, product and service to go there, the merit bill? I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u50	A respectable president. As mentioned in my case, the Ministry of Health examined it, along with the Ministry of Professional Residents, as well as the Ministry of Economics, as well as the Ministry of Development, as to whether it was appropriate to submit to the laws of law that go under the relevant department. It would have been possible to consider, if it had been determined, whether it could have gone to the Economic and Business Committee or possibly to a professional committee. However, the conclusion was to sign these laws, and according to the way the committees have been divided in the council, the General Education Committee is an equalizing committee. Then I'd like to point them out, too. A senator, as I did just earlier on my case, on page 24. 4, 5 and 6 that go through different cases that have come up. People have sought justice on the basis of this directive on the grounds of insurance and financial services, health services, hotels, restaurants, and gymnasiums, tax pressures, housing and public transportation, education, and the media. However, not many cases have been made to the European Court or to the EFTA Court, where differences have been based on interpretation of the directive's directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u51	Madam President. I recommend here to the Committee's committee my share of the employment committee for a proposal for a government resolution policy: The majority believe that, in the direction of the correction of electrical lines, more factors, such as national, regional, natural protection, and travel programmes should be taken into account. The cost of placing electrical lines in the ground may be cut down and is the option in general for environmentalization and safer than air lines. The smaller section includes a list of sections 1.3 in areas where the most expensive option is considered to be too narrow. For example, a national park is not the exception of a maximum cost limit. There's also number 3. the use of airports is more efficient, so safety will be above doubt. Or you might add the figure of a unique situation that can always arise and of difficult and complex circumstances, such as weather conditions. In the motion, there is no reason to be unmoved. The smaller section feels that it is urgent to look to the protection of the highlands and that the resource of desert and vastness will not be controlled. There is an abundance of specialities, but they are dwindling. It has been suggested that approximately 80% of tourists come here to enjoy nature. The minority criticizes that the suggestion of what is at the expense of the cost is extremely vague. It is vital that we be clear as to how to calculate each time whether an expensive option is justified or not will result in unnecessary disagreements. The minority feels very strongly that the environmental impacts of both electric and air lines will always be determined regardless of the costs. The smaller section agrees with the number of references that indicate that while the goals for earth cable ratios in section 1.4 can be met, this may conflict with the principle of air lines in the main transport system. It has been suggested that the objectives of the proposal can be met without adding a few wires to the ground in the main transport system. It was then a point of view that specific protocols needed to be set as well as on landline ratios in the main transport system. The minority points out that this proposal has been discussed together with a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws suggesting that the system plan of the transporter should be added to the law (305th case). The minority has suggested that this case be referred to the government for detailed implementation and that the case may be held in place until such changes in electricity laws are resolved. That's what's going on here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. At the end of my review of the members of my section, I'd like to say that this is the first case regarding the system plan, that bill, was discussed here yesterday and on Tuesday, and this Senate resolution program, discussed in a committee study, is under discussion. Now working on tripolitic terms in this matter, I believe that we can see what comes out of the work we have high hopes for success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u52	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee program, with a change in proposal, for a government resolution on thelining of electrical lines, from a greater part of the workaholics. The proposal is submitted along with the bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws in the state of the Landsnet system program, discussed here last night, and it is now very, very comfortable, as it was before. A speaker said here earlier. It says here in the opinion of the greater part: The earth's electron lines are increasing, but in general they are more expensive than the ceiling lines. Among other things, the difference in the cost between the airline and the ground cord depends on tension and other circumstances. Clearly, the high cost of using electricity users in this country is estimated to be high. Governments against policy in which the shipping company should step aside from the most practical route in the layering of electrical lines, as required by the law, have been called. This suggests a point to consider when deciding whether to put a line in the ground or in the air. The above bill, which has also been discussed by the committee, is suggested in Article 9. Electrical law will also be used to indicate that the structure of the transport system should take into account the government's correction of the electrical line under consideration. Here is where we need to stop and point out the two adjustments that follow this majority party. One of them has to do with Article 1.2 of the synonym involved in the national electricity system. It says, by permission of the president: The principle to use a ground cable to fix a line or to renew the old layer should be technical and that the cost of such a solution is no more than 1.5 times the cost at the airline. The adjustment suggests that instead of ◯1.5 times show up ◯tvi times (i.e. An earth cord is made higher than one's head by making the cost of it two times greater than at a ceiling without it, if we can put it that way, reject it. To increase the impact of ground-strings there is another suggestion, and to point to section 5 of section 1.3 of the Parliamentary decree, which says: When comparing cost costs, the current cost of stock and the cost of operating should be determined for the lifetime of the fortress. A greater proportion of the committee suggests that this last event and the cost of the monumental period will be removed, allowing only to account for the current fossil costs of a ground cord. In view of the greater part, it is pretty clear that this will result in a more favorable return to ground cables. There are also other changes that have occurred, e.g. that in the bill it assumes that ground-stranding merchandise will fall off so that their price will be more temperate than ever. According to the news they have received, ground strings prices have also been reduced because companies in their production have been judged for consultation at a market that is now well - known or evil to us Icelanders. These companies have been put on fines due to their consultations, so the prices on land cables have also been reduced and should be more inclined to use for us Icelanders in the future. The proposal helps to distinguish between the low - volume distribution systems of electricity, the national particle system, and the main transport system. It is also discussed that in the main transport system, main policies should use air lines unless others are considered more practical or desirable. Each case should be evaluated for the right to use a land cord on the appropriate line line line line line or on its specific chapters, using the following criteria to justify the animal option: first, if a line line path is within the defined urban population, secondly, if there is a line path within a peaceful country protected by a special landscape, compare with 53.g. law on nature protection, third, if there is a line route to an airport that shows that airlines can affect flight security, fourth, if there is a line path within the park, and fifth, if there is a line path within a country protected by other than a special landscape, such as 53. law on nature protection. The majority of these points to flight security as a result of thinking that it will fall under a flight safety device, such as policy beacons and radar systems. Then, if the cost in two of the above cases does not exceed twice the cost at the ceiling line, i.e. After the conversion, in this section, a ground cord should be targeted unless it is considered technically possible or if an airline is considered a better option for environmental reasons. The maximum cost is not applicable for the first three numbers, i.e. If you have urban areas, a reservation protected by a special landscape, or an airport where airline can affect flight security. In this regard, it is very important that this proposal should appear as well as the bill we discussed in the last two days and that it was led here last night. Both of these issues should result in the beginning of the further and safer development of the distribution system of electricity across the country and in the lack of resources, by the fact that the carriers, or our main line laws on the land, are very unattainable. It's been happening over and over again lately. Public safety in the North and East, especially North East, has been very lacking, which has been shown to have been forced to reduce energy to both fishing and industrial industry. This is also reflected in the lack of energy, such as in the Eyjafjörður. There was an example that mentioned last week at a meeting of Union energy that had to be rejected by 120 people in Dalvik because there was a lack of 10 megawatts. V.E.G. President, it wasn't any more than that, it wasn't available; 10 megawatts, it cost us 120 jobs in the Eyjafjörður area. It has also been pointed out to a data station to install Sigludar, it was not possible, at least not at the same time, because it lacks energy. There is also the fact that there is no greater security on Southnes than that one roofing plate that hit the airline went out of the airport, the Cheflavik International Airport, for two or three hours. They flew into the sky, and it was just a disaster that the weather was good. But that's how close it is to this system, and it's not what it's about. It is not unusual for me to be more secure than this, but then the stone is removed because - as many here know, but I wasn't aware of it until I entered the council - mixed activation has never been hit at the maximum power in which the energy cannot be moved from it. It's rude of nature, it's rude to the taxpayers of this country that we'll take the land for activation, submerge it, and then we won't use it, it's pure and smart rude. To think that this activation has gone on for 23 years without being fully replaced, it is natural that such financial damage makes the idea creeps you out. The structure of the public system is very important and long, long time. According to the proposal, as mentioned earlier, the possibility that lines may be placed on the ground on certain parts of the way or all the way. Although each situation is different, considering which part of a line should be placed in the ground, the main criteria given in chapter 1 are the five that justify a particular object, or all, being placed on the ground despite the increased cost, the one that I traced here. It must also be as acceptable as a ground cord does not apply everywhere. It has been suggested that Iceland's soil does not produce much heat, so it is very likely that because a ground cord is laid, soil needs to be replaced, which is naturally expensive. Also, there are some of the effects of earth's cables; there is a certain width that must be carved into the ground to bring down a ground cord and that must also be accessed at intervals, which are visible. In addition, an earthline repair is much more complex and time - consuming than an airline repair. Because of this example I mentioned earlier with the Rhine, where a line broke apart the day, and power was restored after two or three hours - such repairs would take a much longer time for an earthline. These are the minuss, as you say, or what's hard to use on a ground cord. It is also true that the environmental effects of a built - in earth's cord can be enormous, such as when affected by lava. They leave a lot of wounds. An air line is also easier to take down after use, or after a lifetime if we can put it that way than to plow the ground cord again. But these are all things that are rapidly developing, and what we need to do when making decisions on these advantages is to take care of the situation and, of course, the cost of business safety. In addition to what has been stated, in addition to the depletion of landline product charges, it can be said that in addition to the guidelines and principles laid down and mentioned above, there should always be avoiding as much as possible a disorder of peace-lit areas and areas that enjoy special protection according to the 37rd. law on nature protection. Alternative measures to minimise visual impact, minimise line layers, and not disrupt non-saturable areas should be taken if other solutions are available. These are important principles that should be guided by the development of electrical transport systems. The majority of them feel strongly that additional practical research is forthcoming. The majority suggest that a minister will work for independent assessment of the factors involved in electricity prices, deliverability, development development, technological development, and environmental costs. Then, as mentioned at the beginning of my case, the more part is suggested for the proposal to be agreed with the following adjustment: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Instead of the figure, 1.5◯ in sections 1.2 and 2. section 1.3 arrives: twice. 2. The words, and the cost of the construction of the monument to the 3rd Jobs of 2 mg. chapter 1.3 let go. Kristján L. Möller was away from the case, but literature is considering this with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. A Björt Ólafsdóttir was away from the hearing. Other than this, sign this majority opinion, as well as below. The members of Jón Gunnarsson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, and Egilsdóttir Eglursdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-74.u53	V.E.G. President. Here is a second session of proposals for interpretation of government policy on the fixation of electrical lines. This is a relatively simple article, but in the motion itself, there is a lot of information and information that goes through a number of factors. On the job board, this body of interpretation proposal has been made to treat the committee's meetings and has, in effect, won them work together with a bill of a change in electrical law that has to go to a system plan. I stress that it is very important to look at these matters together because in terms of what is presented in the synonym and what is stated in the report on earth, this opinion is very detailed, it is passed through the points and in part quoted in the bill of the conversion of electrical law. I am writing on the committee opinion as well as on six other members of the council because I feel that this is a solemn assembly proposal. It's no doubt not perfect, but as the first political conclusion on how the government's working line is very important, it's going to help us improve the shape of electrical lines in the ground rather than the lines of air that are, as I've said before, often and often the worst thing we're looking at in the environment, whether you're laying lines for common users or big users. The earthlines requirement, rather than the airlines, has increased extensively and is mainly based on environmental considerations, which is an accurate perspective. Those who make more part of the commission, and I'm one of them, agree with the demand, I draw attention to it, and believe that as the highest possible proportion of electric lines should be placed on the ground. The majority, though, shows that our situation differs from that of both the earth and the air to the environment. I emphasize that in the opinion of the committee, the majority of the objects agree with the requirement to put more on the ground. It is important to bear in mind. It is also important to keep in mind what the committee's proposed changes. In the Senate resolution form, it comes from a minister, it is noted that the current budget and cost of operating over the lifetime of a monument and that this number may be 1.5. We can use the simple example of the value of 1 billion lines that would cost 1.5 billion. The Commission's proposal suggests that, instead of considering times 1.5, this can be done in times 2. It goes on to say that if the line lines cost 1 billion, electrical cables could cost 2 billion and count it as a great improvement. Then we go to the expense of living. This is an important point to keep in mind. I don't know if twice, but it's true that visitors who came to the Committee have been overlooked. We know that the charges of electrical cables have been dropped. It was very unfair that electrical cables were to carry product charges, not air lines. They have been dropped, so the price of cables has dropped. Most of all, it was of great interest to learn that the European competitive authorities have concluded that some ground-stranders had had an illegal consultation on prices and were sentenced to fines. Hopefully, the effect that often wants to occur when consultations have been exposed and judged for this, and business risks them ill - mannered, that the price on earth's cables dropped a lot. It is one more factor that has an impact on the decline of land cables, and it is a global market price on oil. It has been lower than before and has contributed to lower rates of strings. Happily, there is considerable competition for the production of strings. However, we should bear in mind that an aluminium may rise, and this would result in an increase in strings, just as it results in a decrease. In the system plan discussion, there were a number of mix-ups, including peace-installed territory, etc. Which we care about and don't want to ruin. I reiterate what I said earlier on the environmental issues of the Committee. We demand that they be taken more into account. In particular, the proposal to add to the guidelines and principles proposed, including our proposal for two times instead of 1.5, should always be avoided whenever possible a disorder of non-sacrifice areas and areas with special protection at 37rd. about nature protection. This is an important point to keep in mind, since the greatest issue is often involved. Hopefully, this council proposal and its approval at the Council will be guided, and hopefully they will also read the committee opinion that follows the proposal. This is a very long way to meet a self - righteous viewpoint. We must also keep in mind, as the chairman of the committee opinion mentioned earlier, that this must, of course, be evaluated in each case. For example, going through solid lava can make it a source of environmental stress. There's a bit of a thick section that needs to go, there's a way to lay and then the cable string. It was noted in the Committee that if we pass through the vegetation of such areas as trees, it is not possible to plant trees back into the canal wound because the owner or supervisor will have to be able to react immediately if the string failure occurs, which often takes longer to repair than the airline, it must be possible to go straight to that site instead of cutting trees. In some cases, we need to take this factor into account. One point here is considered that the committee's opinion is a little better. I'm very pleased with that because we have clear examples of differences between local society and the airport authorities in Akureyri and the Landsnet, who have intended to put airlines within the airport, which some have spoken against. One of the conditions set out here, which the cost target is not relevant, is near the airport, then there should be another way. The committee opinion adds, and I am very pleased with it and used it to install it, so that the beam is not only spoken of, let's say, from the airport at the end of the track, but also known as a flight safety device, such as direction and radar. You see, they are sometimes, like in the case of the Akureyri airport outside this landing beam outside of the consecration area. It is included in the Commission's opinion, and it must be taken into account, of course, that areas containing, for example, a radar house or a house of policy are involved. It's a good thing to discuss this by taking an example, so let's say that the 500 million ceilings there are. K. Based on the change, the cost could reach 1 billion, but on the other hand, this is the benefit of the electrical cable, for air lines often need frequent telephones, as in this case at the end of the Akureyri Airport, to be longer. The ground cord will be shorter and even be able to drill it under the runway if at that point, the only option would be if it broke under it rather than by ice, and so on. This is in harmony with the increased value of laying a ground cord in comparison with that of what used to be. A respectable president. So here it is being beaten up like one dog. A senator sometimes says, to provide clearances and to change records for those laying a ground cord. In this case, we can take the landnet as an example. They are bound by law to go always the cheapest way. This is it extended. The General is making a democratic decision that the Landsnet can then follow, and it should be followed, which makes it possible for certain cases, which I have traced, and in other cases to come for assessment of line rules, they should take into account what is being agreed upon. This is because, for example, the Landsnet has always said: "We must not be buried, but we are bound by the law that is in force today. Tell the Council how this can be done and how it can be increased, and we will do it, because in many cases, this may result in an increase in the cost of supplying electricity and it will go to user prices. Let's keep this in mind, and it's also written in the committee's opinion, a warning to it, we as users, and we who have the best interests of all who buy energy, let's be aware that this may have an increase. That's all right, because in my mind this is part of making more sense about where electrical lines should remain, or whether they are to be in air lines or to go to earth, which is, of course, an important factor. The point I was discussing is 9 g. current electronic layer, III. section in which the Landsnet is said to always build electricity transport systems in a practical way, taking into account safety, efficiency, availability and the quality of electricity. The commission says, with permission of the president: The earth's electron lines are increasing, but in general they are more expensive than the ceiling lines. The difference in the costs between the airline and the ground cord depends on, including for other things, tension and circumstances. Clearly, the high cost of using electricity users in this country seems to be high. Let's keep this in mind. A respectable president. That's what I wanted to say. I refer to a paper that contains the synonym and the data provided, but on page 24. 10 is an extremely remarkable tablet that we shall review. It says that there are 2,260 miles [857 km] in the country. There is no more than a mile [kg] in earthen cables because it is what is most difficult to deal with and what is most expensive. Today, in 132 kilowatt lines, there are 1,248 miles (1,248 km) with cables of 106 miles or 8%. If we move down to a 60 - mile [66 kg] line, there are air lines some 908 miles (968 km) and cables 37 miles [37 km] or only 4%. There are 45 miles [45 km] of radionuclides, while earthlines 359 miles [59 km]. A total of 604 miles [604 km], and the ratio of strings is there in 60%. The total ratio of 6,33/422 kilograms, if all of these less than 4,500 miles [4500 km], is 43% in strings. This tells us what a dominant course has been in the past few years, that we have been successful in the lower - tension systems, with a ratio above 50%, or in 33 kilograms, and below them. That's exactly what it's all about, and here it's about the main distribution system and then another system, how it's going to develop. A respectable president. In the beginning, I said that I felt that this was a very remarkable controversies. With her approval, we take a big step forward, although, of course, I realize that time, for the next one, two, three years, will reveal that we may need to take this up and move harder, because it is a huge scar and a great, positive, well - developed development in this matter that we Iceland should adopt. Let us bear in mind that suggesting and helping companies put on more ground cables instead of ceiling lines is part of an increase of the country's reconciliation on that important system.
