ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u1	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the Parliamentary Party for Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, 1st. South, I don't think we'll be able to do Congress any time soon. Today, then, at Council 1, a deputy of the Future Party Arts of the District, Fjóla Hrund Björn Björnsdóttir. Fjóla Hrund Björnsdóttir, who has taken up residence at the General Assembly before, is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u2	A respectable president. I wanted to make the subject of the situation in which the currency capitals lie and amend the weeders here in the country. Under it is known to be the greatest interest in the nation's population. It is growing concern over how often the case is delayed in the government, first year after year, then month after month, then week by week, and now from government meeting to government conferences. It is subject to such enormous financial interests and to the credibility of the government on us and to the interests of all of us so great that it must be called upon to call upon the fact that the plans and plans made, that events are followed firmly, that dates are held, and that it is endeavoring to establish solidarity in the council, to communicate with all political parties, to present them well, and to see that they are on a firm foundation. It has been an effort on the part of all the members of the council to stand behind this from when we arrived here in the council and set up a law that took these assets under the head of currency and created us during the last term of the position we have to negotiate the resolution of the swellingrs. It is of utmost importance to develop above a group of political interests in this matter, but also that they are not constantly making new statements about new times that cannot be met because what is said and done is as important as what is being done in this matter of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u3	A respectable president. In the history of Davíð the son of Stefánsson, Solol Icelandus, it was a privilege to calculate a child in and out of a woman. This came back to me this weekend when a nice friend of mine and a good one. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, a United States senator, claimed in the media that the largest nation's income had taken over 50 billion out of the debt of the present government. That is far from true. First, the sentence is misleading, as the calculations take those who are involved in part-time work, study, or just don't work in a labour market, so that one pot is put together and calculated from it. The only realistic comparison is to examine the income distribution of 74 you have. someone who has a committed mortgage. These are the ones who suffered preconceived failures. The facts are: 60% of households corrected had 8 million or less per year, or 670 you. K. per month. The majority of the corrections went to households with annual incomes of less than 4 billion. K. The left control was promoted by a so-called 110% route. There, 1,250 individuals received an average of 21 million. K. Each to its own, 21 million. The 1,250 people who got the most in the current government operation received an average of 3.5 million. K. For a change. 21 million. K. from the former government, 3.5 billion. K. from this. [[To the point of a man without property...]] I'm not even going to talk about the individuals who got tens of a million dollars. ..out of 110%-way Steingrímur Sigfursson. Criticizing the correction of the present government, therefore, comes from the cruelest source in the world record of injustice. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] World record in an unjust distribution of funds. [[The president calls.]] [[Up in the hall: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u4	V.E.G. President. I'll be here in the same place as what. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, but in the weekend news, statements could be made hard. A member of the United Nations, Oddný Harðardóttir, had very misleading facts about the government's debt correction. Since the senator's presentation is merely misleading, I would like to review the detailed facts about the correction. Sixty percent of the homes that got corrected had 8 billion. K. or less for a year's income. There's a home of 670 yous. K. per month, e.g. A couple who have either 335 of you. K. per month. I can't see that it's highly paid people, far from it. Most of the corrections went to homes with a annual income of less than 4 billion. K. The correction rate was about 35% of the homes with less than 4 billion years. K. in income and 20% in those with a share of under 6 billion. K. However, the correction rate was only about 8% for those with 12 billion. K. ... ingraduated. There is reason to speak freely. Senator of the United States Group, compared to 110% on the left. That's where the 1,250 people that got the most out of the 110% route were 21 million. K. Mean. Meanwhile, the 1,250 people who got the most out of debt improved the current government 3.5 million. K. Mean. The senator's criticism comes at the same time as the government of the Specialist Party and the Independence Party proclaimed major action for a landlady of rent - rent homes, something the Conspiracy might have done during its reign but would not have done. What a joy these extensive actions of the government are! It involves building 2,300 social rented apartments in four years. The goal is to increase the number of cost and practical apartments for low income families. As a result of this action, poor families, who so far have not had access to apartments in the social system secure access to cheap and safe housing. We are also making large financial contributions into housing, thus supporting those in the rented market will be comparable to those in their own housing. [[The president calls.]] Is that a very positive, progressive step? Is it too much to ask that people handle the facts here, not misleading things?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to come into the dress business here today. I miss a little bit that we're not discussing them in a bigger context at the council. I feel that some of the many, 70 cases that wait for us, and we should be discussing this party because it's huge and tricky. Also, in some respects it is a little difficult to talk about a fool's case. It's a sensitive group of paintings. Now there are groups of public employees on strike, and the problem is that when public employees strike, it does not impact on the employer, the State, but on innocent people, as we see today, on those who should not least be hurt. It has even been said whether it is normal for health - care professionals to have a strike right. There's a discussion that needs to be taken, but police officers made up the strike trial and they haven't been successful in their struggle, I think most of them can agree that they have too little money. There is a debate about pay pay at the state. It's a little difficult for me to understand what's so complicated about paying the same amount of pay for comparable education and experience. I also feel that the debate over whether we're being overemphasis is in order. I sometimes wondered if many of these or some of them, such as. Today, doctors may do or do any of the work that nurses do today. I don't know, but I think it's a debate that needs to be taken over, maybe in some cases we're reducing a certain flexibility by having too much of a downer. It's a difficult and delicate discussion we're supposed to take anyway. In this discussion, I would also like to ask if the best terms for the Icelanders were not getting a proper currency. I'm surprised we're not discussing it every day. [[The president calls.]] A lower interest level and a lack of pay would be paid in untrusted crowns. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u6	Mr. President. I take to heart this point because I have received great news today that the European Court of Human Rights has judged Hlynsdóttir Helynsdótttir in favor of the Icelandic government and has concluded that the Supreme Court's judgment against the European Court of Human Rights since 2010 was in violation of the European Convention of Human Rights. This is the third judgment of the European Court of Human Rights that favors Erla Hlynsdóttir, who has adopted the legal struggle for journalists and who have fought for freedom of expression. I believe there is good reason to congratulate her on her judgment. In 2011, the first two of the judges that fell on the court of Human Rights were a case or charge that was presented to the establishment of a new media law. When they were accepted here at the council, efforts were made to circumvent various problems with older printing laws from 1956 and to strengthen the legal status of journalists, so that the Supreme Court would likely pass other judgments would have been made after the production of the media. What I would like to use my short time here is to encourage the government to review this latest judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and see if there is any further reason to review the legislation to support the freedom of expression. There are many important issues that come on our table, but these issues are the most important for democracy that the media have the circumstances to care for their jobs. In fact, Erla's fight has shown that there was a full need to change the media and to bring them to a modern outlook, thus strengthening the legal status of journalists. This latest judgment may require further legal adjustments in order to strengthen the position of those who carry out the role sometimes called fourth power and is an essential part of all democracies. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to use this opportunity, bring up this important matter for freedom of expression in the country, and encourage the government, the Minister of State, and the Ministry of Education to review all the legislation that might have to do with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u7	V.E.G. President. I'd like to express my joy with the government's actions to pay for making collective agreements, which were introduced last Friday. The plan even works. expected 2,300 new apartments designed to ensure long-term low - income housing for families. The house - to - house bill assumes that rentable individuals with low income will not be more than 20 to 25% of their income. The construction of 2,300 apartments leads to an increase in social prosperity due to its mass impact in increasing labour demand. If I mention a multiple effect and an increase in prosperity, it's clear that 850 million. K. The contribution of the State to the laid - up construction and protection of tourist areas and the administration of the State will not only lead to better facilities in the areas to which the funds are provided but those who do the work will receive the good money. This will benefit all of us. In addition, I welcome changes in income taxes from three paces in two to three steps, and to the delinquency of customs on clothing and shoes, which should lead to an increase in local trade, so I look forward to the future. But certainly, it is not clear that the government's discussions with members of BHM and the society of nurses are still at the bargaining table, and hopefully the issue will be solved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u8	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the state of the Hospital in the light of the current and unfinished agreements. There is fine reason to remember that this year's contract was signed in connection with agreements with doctors, which should highlight the importance of the medical system and further strengthen health care. The main points of the Declaration are, by permission of the President, the construction of a new Land Hospital, and the progressive restoration of equipment in the medical system, both designed to improve health care facilities and public service. Thus, the fourth part of today's program is not to be found in a national budget where the plan is to build a new Hospital. So it is only hoped that you will ask yourself, " Is any of the contents behind the beautiful words given in January? ' It says in the Committee's list my section of the budget board on the state budget, with the permission of a president: It has been said that preparation has not been necessary to set up a budget for the construction of the land hospital and that too much investment on the part of the government can interfere with the long-term program set up here and could result in a cut-off to allow room for such investment. Here it comes quite directly and clearly that if a Landspiral is built, it will take place somewhere else and in some service that is likely to be in the health and welfare system or in the educational system. So it is not yet that a stone upon stone does not occur if a huge change is not made in the budget set out here if you intend to live with the big words signed in the Declaration of Will to doctors, unless there are other declarations signed in these days when hopefully a collective agreement will be made with nurses and other staff in the hospitals that have been in a strike for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u9	V.E.G. President. Last night, in the crowd, the production of the Mice Games was conducted, and it is safe to state that the opening program was a success. I'd like to use this opportunity here, a respectable president, and wish all present to prepare and organize the games in a happy beginning and wish that the games themselves will be in harmony with the opening so that the contestants and participants will enjoy the games to the full. Lárus Blöndal, president of the Iceland's Sports Association, called attention to the work and survival of the many volunteers who are involved in the preparation, organization, and performance of the games, making such a celebration, such an event, possible. It reminded us of what leads to sports and hobbies in Iceland and what it is worth, how important it is for us to respect our volunteer work in action and in order to do so. That's not necessarily the case. Health protection, the battle against obesity, the general public health and prowess, and the proactive work aimed at children and adolescents, and other activities that are released, may include the benefits of organized sports and leisure activities. There are things that are done on the part of the government to strengthen the volunteer work in the sports movement, but we can do better. I have made two efforts, and I have recommended the matter of defending and strengthening volunteer work and promoting humanitarian activities in connection with it. That matter is likely still mentioned on yet another journey, as is true of many other fine senators. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u10	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to commend the government for new suggestions on paying taxes. Although these suggestions will still be offered to the council, I am glad that I will not reduce the taxes on the people of the land, but we will still see where that money is to come from. The damage rates are that I know a far more reasonable way to improve the terms of people than that the state employs tens of billions in paying down the private debt of certain persons for an operation that seems sadly to be giving most of the people. [[Up front.]] Since I speak under the council's office, I would like to discuss only the activities of the council. There I allow myself to ask: Is that the best we can do? I've only been here a few days and I have to say, I don't understand how you guys can work in this environment. The Council's work programme has been canceled. Here's the cheering and shouting for members of the council while they're in Pontu. Here at the Hall of Congress, councilmen and ministers respond to inquiries and criticizes in the way that the previous government was so bad and then made bad decisions. But to me and to me, and to many others, that's just no excuse. There is no excuse for your own decisions, and there is no excuse for the procedure here at the General. Here we will discuss the changes made by committees, including in a bill where organizational authority is taken from rural areas in the country, which is clearly presented here during the final days of the council in order to create a wolf's voice. We need an honest and efficient General. We are here primarily in the service of the people of the land, and we just have to do something better. I'd like to finally agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hransson's Helga Hrafn Gunnarsson reports that the meetings of the Allegorium will normally open to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u11	Mr. President. I had intended to talk about how the government is, in my opinion, dangerously close to driving off the economic track, but I cannot help but object to this ignorant generation of candidates on the result of the so-called 110%. It's like a rock that's being served here that half would be enough. It is with an endemity to equalize the wealth of the estate funds to people who, on a large scale, are truly well - paying for it, thereby adding their wealth to what was done in 110%'s way. The 110% pathway was both property and income-related. It was about bringing down the demands of people who were babbled in their possessions and who had no other possessions against them because they were withdrawn. In fact, it was critical of how hard, for example, it was. The camp loan fund went on to pick up all the other possessions and reduce their cutbacks. What does this say about those who received the large sums of money waved by the High Priests? They were babbled and had no possessions - no possessions. [[Up front.]] And what did they get? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson? They didn't get anything. Banks and pensions lost debt because the person was bankrupt and therefore the debt was likely incorrigibly incalculable. That's why pension funds could even. justified his participation in the operation. Or do people think that those in the Pension Fund would have begun giving money to non-employable sources? No, it wasn't like that. Comparing this with the action now shows either an amazing ignorance or an insolence unless it is both. These are totally incompatible, and they have nothing to do with it. And if any. The senators want to continue this, Mr President, then I am more than willing to reason with them. Let's get this straight. You've kept plenty of concrete in the nation and you've been giving them shit for the past few years. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u12	V.E.G. President. I didn't mean to talk about this, but I'm totally real, because it's so wonderful to listen to the left men talking here about people who have less than 8 million. K. In domestic incomes each year, two BSRBs increase their wealth. [[Yeah, good.]] [[...in a month]] Can you imagine the horror?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u13	High-priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u14	These are the people who were held up to the middle stage in income tax during the last term. And then there are men with great zeal that this operation, which was both righteous and reasonable and fully timely and has helped many homes in Iceland considerably - 75% of this correction went to people who had less than half of their home and therefore could only add to their wealth, right? [[Up front.]] It's such a strange saying. Of course, one realizes that this achievement worked. [[Up front.]] Of course, one realizes that the mother could be finished all the campaign halls. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course you understand. But there is no joy. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Mr. President, there's some fun in the hall. Maybe we can let these fine senators in later. [[The president calls.]] I hope now I have the opportunity to finish my talk. But, of course, the correction made is one of the greatest feats ever accomplished in Iceland and works out completely as it was supposed to, and the promise is fully fulfilled. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I understand it so well that you can't get over it, men who first said, "It's not possible." And when it was possible, they said, "It's too small. And when it became evident that this was sufficient and that the election promise was fully completed, men continued. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is a living example of how successful this operation was that it could not be released. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's wonderful. I'm here to talk about it at any time, special discussion, whatever.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u15	Hallelujah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u16	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss the activities of the council. Since May 2007, I have been here at a council meeting, and since then, since then, little or nothing has been changed in the council. [[Up front.]] I'd like to put here an idea of a change in the council. There are two kinds of them. First, rather than reevaluating, one assembly or subsequent council reviews the laws that have been passed over the years. It seems that it is the main issue of the council to present a book of laws at each council and to add to the bag without considering whether or not other laws will work and whether or not to be taken care of. Second, I have a radical idea whether it would be possible in the 2017 election that only two years, from 2017 to 2017, will be allowed to legalize women at the council. to vote for a women's council for two years. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Women have the opportunity to show whether the claim is true that women's practices differ from that of men. The Senate would be short, it would be two years, and after that, the nation could, of course, themselves and those who vote would wonder whether it would be more reasonable to have a women's assembly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u17	V.E.G. President. Here's where they throw their sledgehammers. A senator presents a very interesting idea that I think we should consider more seriously. I come up here today because I'm very worried about the way an Icelandic community is going. I'm particularly worried about the health system, and I don't think I'm alone about it. BHM sociologists have been on a strike for weeks, and there are reports that nearly 30 nuclearists left jobs in the Land Hospital. That's almost half of the active radiologists. Nurses have been on a strike for just less than a week. I'm very worried that if there's not a contract in all the next few days, or if the Generals were to consider putting the law on strike, there's still more to say and leave the country or to another field. So we can't fit in as a community at all. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir asked yesterday's highest. Whether he considered it to be a reason to go outside the box and to remind them of a proposal made by the government's leader during the medical strike that the terms of reconciliation would be agreed upon by the source of debates and statesmen to resolve the matter. V.E.G. A minister might not have resented that idea. Therefore, I would like to suggest that at the General Parliament we join together during the last days of the Council and do our part and, if not just agreeing today, that such a covenant committee will be established to the point where treaties may not seem to be going well enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u18	Mr. President. All I want to do is come into the great difference in electrical prices in the country. I like to remind him, for, of course, it has been very long for all political parties to level the cost of house warming and the cost of energy in the country. We're getting closer, but, still, it's starting to hit in the right direction. As we know, there was an approved issue on the eco-efficiency of electricity recently and today for the General Assembly on the domestic warming costs for telecommunications. We still have a long way to go. There are very striking numbers that are shown in this context. The difference between the highest and the lowest electrical prices in urban areas in Iceland is 47% according to the Calculator's calculations. The architecture has requested this calculation. The cost of electricity use was compared to that of house - to - house warming at several urban areas and several urban areas each year. It shows that the price is at the lowest in Akureyri and secondmost in the Western Islands, but electricity prices for the rural users of Orcsus Westfjordur are highest. I think it's very striking and really shows how far we're going. We are to make a great effort to balance the cost of house warming and electricity fully. I think it's a project that should be done and not too long, such as Hólmavík, where the total mass of house warming is highest in the country. [[The president calls.]] In this matter, the highest and the lowest price is immense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u19	A respectable president. I would like to make a comment in view of the discussion that has taken place regarding debt, i.e. not to bring in the information and answers to inquiries asked repeatedly in the winter on the subject so that the number of these funds could be blacked out in white. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir has requested this information on the budget and what. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has proposed a formal inquiry over this subject. I ask: Is it possible or does the secretary of finance not see to it for months to bring this information to the council? Could it be that people do not rely on this information into the workforce atmosphere? Do you not trust to publish this information before signing a collective contract? Is that possible? Could the information be that man has not trusted to publish it? Of course, you start to ask yourself such questions when you do not trust to answer these questions for months. Of course, this will not work, and there is something in the spirit of the reactions we experience in general at the council, i.e. being here constantly in some game and refusing to discuss some serious matter. They didn't want to discuss agreements at the council. They have not wanted to discuss how they are going to solve the current government - to - be - over - the - 500 - day work debate with government officials. They don't want to talk about serious matters in this room, and they don't want to answer questions about important matters, as I've mentioned. To that I'd like to make an observation, a respectable president. I don't think we can do here any intermission or complete this council any other than that there's information on how state's resources are spent in debt and what income groups. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u20	A respectable president. This bill assumes that important changes will be made to Iceland's Management Board and are best: There will be a general secretary's clearance to determine the location of the institutions. It is suggested that the earlier legislation on the authority of the Ministers to determine the establishment under him, unless it is otherwise recommended by the law, be reinstated in the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. It is then assumed that there will be an increase in flexibility in planning advisers. It is suggested that legal allowances for planning recruitment will be increased from the present level, including by allowing the establishment of work units and departments within non-employment halls. Finally, there is an increase in the mobility of employees. It suggests that there is a general authority to transport employees who are temporarily employed by councils and organisations between these parties as well as the approval of the local Minister for the transfer as well as the head of the organisation and the employee himself. It's the first team on the secretary's authority to determine the establishment of the institutions that attracts the most attention. The Regulation that a minister shall decide on the establishment of an institution under him came into the Constitution by law in 1999 following the Supreme Court's trial of December 18, 1998, in case of No. 312/1998, a so - called U.S. survey. In that case, the Supreme Court came to this conclusion with a reference to 2 mg. 13th par. The Constitution that the current Environment Minister would have been prohibited from making the final decision to transfer the European Commission from Reykjavík to Ak Aranes without having permission to do so. However, in 2011 the stated permission of a minister to make a decision on the location of the institutions fell to the review of the law without realizing that there was a special objective in the revision of the law, although there was nothing about the change in comments to the bill. Two. 13th par. The Constitution says: "It is not easy for you to leave in Reykjavík. From the Supreme Court's decision in the National Research case, it can be concluded that the meaning of the term the Ministry of the Council involves not only counseling as such but also the other government authorities, who are conducting administrative matters that are being heard by the Ministry. According to the Supreme Court Court's court, although not directly instructed in the legality of the establishment of the government in Reykjavík, it would not be expected that this alone will give a minister free choice of where to live. Requisite legal requirements for this procedure can preferably be made by ordering a constitution on the location of recruitment. If it had been considered to be so probably in later years that agencies under whom they heard had also settled in the capital that it would not have to be stated specifically in the law. The Supreme Court's decision is clear that agencies will not be located outside Reykjavík unless they are authorized by law. The reference was considered necessary to eliminate any doubts about the authority of a minister in order to determine the location of the institutions outside the city of Reykjavík. In the current U.S. Government Act, No. 115/2011, however, it is not recommended to refer to the establishment of the institutions responsible for the activities of the European Commission. However, the failure of this law is not explained in comments to a bill to the law, as stated earlier. Therefore, in view of the above, it is suggested that there should be again a general authority for the minister to determine the establishment under him, and it is suggested that the earlier law be adopted unchanged. Thus, in the bill it is considered correct and reasonable to believe that the legal authority would be reimbursed. It can be concluded that in each case, a special legal authority should be placed outside the country border of Reykjavík. It would hardly end very hard, and in effect, it would take time to transfer institutions between parts of the land if such an interest was found. General Ministers' authority to determine the establishment of the institutions does not change that the General Assembly can always legally determine where the institution should be located, and then a minister's authorization should be dropped as recommended in the directive. On the other hand, the decision by the General Council not to take sides in the legal location of the institution will be involved in the minister heard to do so. Of course, the laws presented here do not stipulate government obligations to raise financial warrants for the cost of stock costs or the increase in government cost of transport. At a meeting of the administrative and monitoring committees there was a view that it was not default for government agencies to be located in Reykjavík, especially in view of the development of technology in which geographic locations and distances would be less important than before. They concluded that it was not by default that a minister could determine the location of the official institutions on a one-way basis. This would be an important factor for the management of the organisation and uncertainty of these materials, which could limit the potential of public organisations in competition for staff. It was also noted that the Supreme Court's decision was not based on just 2 mg. 13th par. The Constitution also holds the requirements of the administrative principles for government decision making, including The requirements for preparation of the decisions and the inclusion of them are based on objective opinions. The majority believe that, in view of the general minister's employment privileges, it is right to establish a general minister's authority to determine the location of the official agencies. However, it is essential that such decisions be made to ensure that the regulations of the chemical administration and are referred to in this reference to the decision made by the Allegorium agent due to the complaint of the staff of Fish Institute for Plans for the proposed transfer of the Agency from Hafnard to Akureyri. On the one hand, this is a bill on organized advisers. In the 17th. current legislation is required for internal planning advice, but according to the article, recruitment should be divided into offices and each office should be directed by the head of the Office of the Ministry. By means of the law, an organization is legalized in this regard and has been viewed as the only way their organization will be organized. It is suggested that authorization to organize the Ministry be evacuated from the current level. The primary planning scheme is expected to remain unchanged, i.e. that the main office of recruitment should be divided into trade agencies, however, if necessary, to set up specific work units or agencies in councils which are not considered to be the main office but are the administrative part of the Ministry in such a way that administrative decisions taken by a minister are adopted in the same way as the administrative decisions made at the Ministry. As there is increased flexibility in front of the planned recruitment process, there is a difference between the two groups. Take into account the possibility that recruitment can be united and individual administrative institutions and administrative committees that hear under the department in such a way that the government can obtain a post within the Ministry as a special labour unit or Department office. Such a change would involve a simple administrative system in which decisions would be made directly from the highest administrative level. Such changes could then be expected to further the management of the administration but to promote large administrative projects along with the resources and resources that have been supplied in recent years and decades from councils to specific institutions established by law. At the same time that administrative projects have been moved from councils, the independent ruling committees have increased, which has weakened the management role of ministers and advisers against local organisations. Today, about six dozen of such committees are active. They have also been assigned from councils to independent administrative institutions. No general policy has been behind this trend and in a very different way what evidence has been presented for such changes. However, it seems that in some instances the purpose of such changes was to remove the authority of the ruling from the political authority of a minister, as the bill says. In 2008, at the greater part of the Commission and monitoring committees have concluded that one of the main results of the Ageneral Commission report on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks was the need for support and human resources. Thus, special employment units and agencies within recruitment would have been able to increase human resources, thereby increasing expertise and flexibility in dealing with new circumstances and projects. So, in the greater part, we agree with these views, and we feel that it is important to increase the quality of human beings within the council, and we believe that the change is a good way to strengthen the Ministry of Business. Third, this bill refers to the flexibility of workers as one of the main objectives of the bill. This change is reflected in B-Dret 10 paragraph. The bill. In fact, it presents a change in the rights and responsibilities of the State's employees, No. 70/1996, with subsequent changes. After 1st mg. 7. The law shall bring forth a new sentence, which shall be spoken, by the permission of the Speaker: It is considered, without the publication of a job vacancy for an application, to decide that an employee who is hired untimely to transfer for a given time or who is permanent between governments would be subject to the approval of the relevant director for the transfer and the employee himself. - This last thing is very important. This will only be done with the approval of an employee. So here it is being expanded by legislation on temporary or permanent transfer of staff between recruitment agents, which also extend to staff transport between recruitment and state institutions as well as between the two institutions. A new law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland in 2011 opened up a new arrangement that enabled employees to move between the provisional or permanent time endowment for both Ministers as well as the employee himself. Commenting on this new Management Board bill, such sources say that there is a much better chance for human resources to be used and to address temporary pressures on the Agency's activities and to employ them more effectively. The goal of the change is especially to provide workers with more and more opportunities for increased levels of knowledge and progress. This contributes to a greater cooperation between citizens. There has been some evidence that workers moved between recruitment practices, both permanent and temporary, in recent years on the basis of the legal institutions that came into effect in 2011. However, the lack of comparable legislation has been made to transport workers between institutions and recruitment practices, as well as between the two strains. In contrast, there may be initiatives between employees who want to expand their knowledge and to develop in the work of a wide range of work places within the state, and that of the initiative of the administrative authority, when the emphasis on individual areas increases or is drawn together after incidents or when certain special skills are needed because of the rapid and reliable needs of important tasks. However, it is fundamental to the current legislation on the transfer of workers between recruitment practices as well as in the proposal presented in this bill that if an employee's transfer between the government is considered to be the initiative of the administration, it is the employee himself who has the final statement whether or not of such transport will be, as previously stated. This guarantees the legal rights of employees in making decisions like this. For the board of directors and monitoring committees there was a view that experience with such transport may not be good and that employees are rarely in a real position to refuse such transport. If so, it is contrary to the principle of advertising all public jobs, including the objective. to ensure that the most qualified person is hired and that equal recruitment fairness is being taken care of. The rule also includes personal appreciation. The other part takes in the connection with arguments presented in commentaries with the bill that if an employee moves from one job to another, the job he was in will be released and the job he was in will normally need to advertise it. This enables us to make better and longer use of experience and knowledge from those who work in the administration. There are other things in this bill on the Council of Control. This suggests, for example, that the services of the Commission on Economic Affairs will be legal and that there will be a change in the regulations of the law that discuss the obligation of Ministers to report governments from meetings where they share with members of the management system or outside. This is a recommendation to observe the 11th paragraph. The law on the registration of formal relations will be changed so that the obligation to record information depends on the content of the communication rather than on their form and that the work of the co-ordination committee on moral standards will be entrusted with the Ministry of Directorates and Directorates of the Council. If we look at the registry of information as it is today, it is clear that there is any discrepancies to be carried out on their registrys that need to be synchronized. There was also a hint in the management and monitoring committee that meaningful communication in place of formal communication is often an estimating term that could lead to decisions on how to record formal relations and meetings over-recognised by whims or injuring the opinions of those to be listed. This is a sensitive subject in which overexact definitions could increase the possibility of avoiding protocols on communication. So the majority underline the need to ensure that the best registry of relevant information can be made and therefore suggests that the directive will become even more detailed. Regarding the moral standards, the management and monitoring committee discussed this point, particularly that a special coordination committee would be submitted but that the Ministry of Presidency would accept its assignment. It was observed that in view of experience with the co-ordination committee, a special legal committee was no longer needed to perform this role, although it was important to continue the procedure, including to ensure that ethical standards develop to the normal level. So the major part agrees with that and thinks the change is natural, and I agree with that. An electronic study revealed that the majority of the workers feel that ethics play an important role in their work but that there is a lack of instruction and follow-up. Thus, in the greater part, we feel that the rules of ethics and discussion and cooperate with them should be an active part of the work of recruitment and institutions. As a whole, I think these changes in the Council of Control are for the benefit of improving the work done in the administration and fortification that I think is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u21	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the talk and the review of this case and the work of the Board of Directors and Control Committee. The bill contains a point about putting up a special office or a special office in councils to take administrative decisions and involved with the work of the Committee and also on the case. The senator's decision - making committees, numbers of them, and if they should be brought into the Ministry as well. A respectable president. It is now that government arrangements are not just for officials or those who work there. Of course, all the practical things needed to be taken into account, but that is not the case with the management board. The management board is about the people and the people who need to use the administration and get their affairs taken care of. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it is his opinion that this new arrangement, which is now to be adopted in addition to independent administrative institutions, and so forth, makes the administration more beneficial and better for the people of the country to use it and that it will become all more open and understandable to those who are not in the jungles of the government of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u22	Thank you. A senator for this fine question, and this certainly is a matter worth discussing. I think this should go together, the services to the people, and then economics to the government and the various institutions. So I think we can put things together better. Will the management be more open? It can be as open as it is today, and it can be no less than it is today. Things can be taken over faster than today. So, overall, I don't think this is going to be as much as it is today, which I think is a great improvement, so I think that this is usually a step in the right direction to the simple, the simplicity is for the good. On the other hand, that's exactly what it is. A senator is thinking that I think, in isolated cases, this could lead to a situation that may not be as open, this will be closed, it will all be on the same hand, and it may lead to something not to be the way it should be. However, I believe in the vast majority of cases, people will see in their hands that if we have a 60-170 ruling committees in town, it is a very complicated, expensive, and heavy system for the public to go through. I think these things, the simplicity of all this rule, the way the service is to the public, are for the general good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u23	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that, of course, there is a need to pay attention to government management and to try to survive. But in my opinion, it can't be at the expense of trust in the administration and that the people of the country can do their business with governments as it should. There's been a lot of discussions about decision committees, and I'd like to say that I don't feel that there's a completely different way of thinking that it was a natural thought in its own time, a political thought in having special ruling committees. It's to have what's called, which I find a nasty word but is used much these days, a sanctimoniously. I'm always trying to think of some new word about this, a respectable president. I think it's such a boring word. But that was the natural thought. Now people are thinking of changing this, and, yes, there's nothing wrong with changing, there's nothing wrong with turning something around and turning into what was already there. But I think we need to think about it. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator how he feels about the code of ethics because this was shown in the letter of the Generalist after the leak case as if there were any rules for the government or not. It's the responsibility of the Ministry of Presidency. Got it. A member of the council is giving the Ministry of Presidency a rating that it is good, that the rules of the State are being observed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u24	Thank you. A senator for these questions and questions. I agree that, of course, we must not sacrifice this renowned arm length, it is very important in the administration. In order to prevent any doubt about decisions that governments may be doing at any time, we need to make sure that is the length of that arm. However, there is evidence to suggest that the operating system can be greatly simplified. And one of the things that's so important when we reorganize the system that we're not just thinking about the money factor, i.e. that we can save money from it, but make the whole system simpler and thereby provide better service, more comfortable and simpler for all the public. That's important. But the length of the arm is very important, i.e. that people can be confident that the decisions made are right, honest, and reasonable. In terms of the Code for Governments, I have a very simple opinion of that. It is now assumed that each government will establish a moral code. I've got a real problem with such regulations in general, I think it should be the same code for all governments, I don't care what their names are or what their classes are. Protocols are to be the same for all governments, so there should not be new rules of ethics, new guidelines, new goals every time a new government comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker has one question on the subject. g., Secret Secretary's permission to transport the institutions. In fact, it seems that in the last reexamination of the law, the law fell, as if by chance, and was no meaning by it. However, I have understood this in the case of those who knew that it had fallen away because it did not seem right for a minister to have so much authority. That's not what I was going to ask. That's what I was going to ask. A senator does not understand the view that if agencies are being exported, and this may be from abroad to Reykjavík and from Reykjavík to the country and on all sides of the country, it is normal for the decision to go through the General Assembly. Of course, what is critical of this is that a minister is really up to the point of relative authority, as we have experienced in the council. Why can we not be sure that the Allied Council will agree to transfer if there is a lack of logic, and in most cases the majority of the members of the council are the members of their minister? This could prevent gross mistakes, as has even been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u26	Thank you. A senator for the questions. Of the first things she mentioned that the law fell away in the last law, at least it was not explained in the bill why it happened, it wasn't in public figures why it was taken out in the last law, and explanations have not yet been available. As for the introduction of the Generals to the transport of institutions, this general clearance will not change because the Generalate can always establish by law, as I told earlier, where an institution should be located. Let the decree therefore bring down the minister's decree, as it is written in the law. In fact, the Council can intervene. In addition, the General's natural resources, don't forget. I believe this law, the general secretary's warrant is good, the administration becomes much better, you can make better decisions. When it comes to transporting institutions, it is natural for humans to have materialistic views, and not to violate all governmental rules when they do so. But I think the warrant is necessary, it is good, and the Council can, in fact, have the resources, stop them if it wants to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u27	A respectable president. Another article on the mobility of workers within the administration. I really understand it, but I wonder if it would have been normal to start by saying that the Board of Directors was one of the workplace, people would come to work until work, they would be like the pay and jobs independent of the ministry, which I think would be normal, people going between consulting if they were interested in it, and I'm sure that it could be good for employees, and something that people might as well want. However, here we are talking about moving among the strains as well. Although I can personally see that it would be good to have more flexibility, I also have an understanding of the viewpoint of unions, that employees do not necessarily have a very good position to refuse transport. Of course, the employee himself should agree and an officer, but what position is being put on the employee if he does not want to move, perhaps leaving the Ministry to another institution? I wondered if one normal step had not been to talk about the Council of the Management Board as one of the workplaces but not being involved with institutions at this point, since I understand it then so that someone who may now be in the Ministry may be able to move over to the Land hospital. There is really no limit to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u28	Thank you. A senator for this question. Most of us would agree that flexibility is necessary to a certain extent, i.e. can be moved. I think it means not only about private companies but also about the state. This suggests that people can be brought not only between advisers but also between institutions, such as whales. A senator rightly says. I think that motility is very important. Of course, there is solid evidence that the position of employees to refuse is not as strong as it needs to be. Let us not forget, though, that the staff law is very strong and provides protection for government employees. As a matter of fact, the protection is so rich that I think it protects employees very well, so that they don't want and are not interested in changing the field. I'm not so worried about it when it comes to it. On the other hand, I think it's a great improvement for the state, a great improvement for the employees to be able to have a career in other parts of the Kingdom system where they are interested in working. The government is big and big, and these are many institutions and different things, not just the Ministry, so I think this will open up to a very good chance for employees to create a new field of activity. I think, as a whole, this is a very positive development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u29	President. We have a bill that I think of in the minds of many, is called the Fish Office bill. In fact, the Prime Minister protested here at 1st. that this was about Fish Room; there's no mention of Fish Room in this bill, he said. Prime Minister is correct, there is no mention of a Fish Room on the bill. However, it is quite clear that the bill is presented to provide a legal basis for transporting the Agency to the Marine Institute from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri, which was an idea that the prime minister received and announced at a meeting, and then took the top. Secretary of the sea to do so. All of this occurred last fall, a respectable president. Since then, many things have happened in this case, and now last, a few weeks ago, a sea chief declared that there would be no transport this year. It is clear, then, that because it is not in the hands of one minister to transfer an entire corner of the land between them, it is not possible to do so under the thought of one or two men. Hv. paritaprevir In his story last night, the count of Jónasson ran a good point over this matter. He rightly stated that there is no room for division between parts of the country. There is no disagreement that it should be possible, but it needs to be done properly and in consultation with employees. All of us need to realize that the transfer of workers is tantamount to tearing down families with roots, and this cannot be done without preparation or consultation. The report on the bill shows that this law, that a minister's determination to determine where institutions should be set, was removed from the Constitution when they were reviewed in 2011 and that is correct. But it is stated in the bill that because it is not mentioned specifically in comments with the bill, because it is not specifically spoken of in speeches, because it is not mentioned at all mentioned at all, it fell out by surprise. For proof, there is nothing about this in a report. I dare say, most respectable president, it was no coincidence that this came out. Nor was this to be mentioned by chance. It was because everyone who came to the case at the time felt that this law was out of the law that no one thought it would take to mention it. And why did people and members of Congress feel that they were so sure of themselves? Well, it's clear, for example, just to add, that no one who returned the comments made a remark to it. This is because the Management Board was reviewed in 2011 after the General Report on the Fall of the Banks, the major study report, was published. This report strongly warns that the Executive Director, and particularly individual advisers, has been overpowered, and this is in part due to the change in law and the implementation of this law. To me, there is no doubt that it was not a coincidence that it fell out of the law in 2011. We'll also see that, Mr. Honorable President, what happens when one minister is granted power. The fishing room and the trouble corridor around her, the concern of the people working in Fish Room, the worry these people and their families have had for all winter, they show that they should not be at the hands of one person, woman, or man. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson's son, although in there, the Generals can always decide something else. But it's quite another thing, a respectable president, that the General would prefer a minister when he's in such a fluctuary, as we see that at the World Council is in control of the larger thing; we may at times feel a bit called not to listen to one or any of the more of the things, like the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance takes note at intervals. Then there is a real protection for all of us not to be torn up by roots, as the staff of Fish Service have been before the winter, to say, at the hands of the Council where institutions are placed. I don't give a lot of money when people are talking about the line around Reykjavík. When a new institution is established, it would be in the law to determine where it should be located, and then the Council can change it. If they are wanted to transport them, they can submit it to the Generals where and how to transport the Agency. I'd like to mention it in this administration, which distinguishes many of this government, that now there is a social security bill, and then I understand that it should be established there that the Minister may decide where the insurance agency should be. I think it's rather true that there's a law in that law where insurance agencies should be. I must now say that - with all due respect for the country and what we would all like to do - I think it would be a little strange to move an insurance agency very far away from Reykjavík. It may be all right for her to be in Kópavogur or Hafnarfjörður - some people think it's a bit ridiculous not to be able to take her passport here in Reykjavík and have to go to Kótavogur. I don't like it, I think it's okay, and I like the county service. A respectable president. I'd like to mention another aspect of this. The bill says 17. to speak as follows: The head of the Department's Office shall be organized by dividing it into trade agencies and each office should be directed by the Office Manager under the management of the Ministry. At the same time, it is permitted to set up specific services and services, which are a part of the Ministry. Such operations direct a government official, in the sense of law on the rights and duties of the employees of the state, under the management of the Ministry. A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm a little confused about what this means. I've sometimes felt that it was possible to set up some office - even in the country, that's okay, that I'm not saying - that would be part of the Ministry, even though it was not in a special administrative office. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson last night mentioned his interest in setting up a lottery room, which did not enjoy much popularity among members of the council, and made it possible for him to, according to this article, to establish it. I felt a little news in his case here yesterday. But what I find in this--with all this system, management offices, sailors, them in councils, or outside those under the Ministry--it's that I feel that all of this has become very confusing. During the last terms, very important changes, e.g. In transport, when a Grouping Room was formed, things were transferred. At the same time as they're suggesting that these clinics be formed, authorized, as this is done, there is also a bill to be discussed here at the council for the establishment of some educational center - a high school office, I think it should be called - and not bring specific administrative projects from the Ministry of Education, as was done in part about a walking agency. But it's all in two directions, I think I am. Now I'm not saying, sire President, that institutions can't differ, and that different systems don't apply in individual lawsuits, but I still think we need to overlook how all of this is going to work. That's why I think it's shocking that this scene is inserted into this bill. I would have liked to have been made -- if men wanted to change it -- if I could call it this way, how these administrative projects would be best, and if so, in individual languages. I also want to reiterate what I came into my counter to what I did. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson earlier, I think it's important in this regard that the government doesn't exist for government officials. It doesn't exist for the Board of Directors. It doesn't exist for lawyers on decision-making committees. It is available for the people of the country, and it is important that people see where they are going to look and that they are not standing before a great and large jungle when they are going to get their release. I think this law is a little bit more likely to suggest that the officials would like it better to have it like this, and now they suddenly think it's a good idea to set up some rooms, and then we should do it. There was also the decision - making committees, and I spoke up against them. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. But so that I testify to the greater part about this, there it says: THE committee's meetings were also discussed as to whether any independent ruling committees are entitled. Comments with the bill show that despite strong arguments behind such a committee's formation, it is the principle of Icelandic government, cr. 14th par. The constitution, that ministers are responsible for all administrations. With the establishment of independent administrative committees and administrative institutions, certain areas of affairs and decisions in the field of the European Commission are the exception of the responsibility of a Minister who has weakened the management role of Ministers and recruitment to the relevant institutions. The greater part shows that there is no answer to the decision made by such committees and institutions to the Council, even though the citizens can complain to an agent. A respectable president. As I came in earlier, there is a political thought in bringing this power away from the minister and I don't think it's evidence - all of a sudden the ruling committees and then these agencies - that it's not clear enough and it's not supposed to have such pieces in these important matters of government. A respectable president. And I just want to come on to what's in this bill's stockfish. It is always happening that law-employment is being introduced - like now regarding the transfer of a Fish Room - that a minister decides where to be, and so many things are added to such prime signals here, for example, the law is suddenly changing the rights and duties of the employees of the state and be authorized to transfer employees between the institutions and the Board of Directors, but when it is permitted to transfer people between individual schemes. In our opinion in the lesser part of the administration and monitoring committee, this is as follows: In the reviews to the Committee, it presents a criticism of the provision made by representatives of the employee. This includes the lack of experience with the transfers of employees under current laws and the fact that employees are rarely in a real position to refuse such transport. The lesser part calls attention to these views. I believe it is proper that we bring these views to the attention of a respectable president. On the other hand, I'd like to say that not everything is rigid and that it has to arrange for movement. However, there is a need to consider working with the workers. I don't object that there's some movement in how employees can move between their jobs in the state system and even between institutions and the Board of Directors, but this needs to be very carefully considered. I'd like to come to the end of what's going on with this committee, I think she's the name of a coordination committee: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of morality in the following cases, provides instruction on these within the Council of Government, and monitors that they will accomplish their purpose. It's in the 8th bill, a respectable president, and they put down some coordination committee to work in the state of the Code. A respectable president. I would like to point to the letter of an agent who wrote to the prime minister after he finished his initiative with regard to the leak. It shows that he is not absolutely certain whether the code of ethics is valid for the government or not, that it is the Ministry of Presidency that should see to it. Now I don't want to criticize the officials at the Ministry of Presidency because it's the Minister who controls it. [[The president calls.]] It is difficult to insist that the Ministry of Presidency, who does not know whether there is a code of ethics for the government or not, has a major work on the whole board of directors of that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by asking who. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir to see if she doesn't agree with me that, according to the Constitution, a minister is responsible for all government projects and whether it agrees with me that the site of the institutions under him is part of the government. Is it not logical, then, that a minister who is responsible should have the authority to determine where an institution is, unless the law recommends otherwise? I find this very simple, since it is completely and completely in accordance with the constitution that this is happening. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator said that it was not very special when this general law was canceled by the law 2011 that it should not have been mentioned merely that it was being taken from the minister's general authority, not one word in a report, not one word anywhere. That's amazing to me. I have to say it. This is a natural part of a minister's authority. However, he must always take into account the administrative arrangement for any change, law on rights and duties of public employees, etc. He can't just do what he wants to do according to his own preferences, he needs to apply objective viewpoints, etc. So I think the concern for this is totally unfounded, since this warrant is fully in line with the constitution and the natural authority of a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u31	A respectable president. I have no doubt that this warrant is in accordance with the Constitution. I'm gonna say it like the lawyer is. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son - I don't remember how lawyers say something like that, but they say something like that, unless someone else has the law to say. That the minister is responsible for all government acts - yes, of course he does, but there are also many laws in which the minister is actually committed procedures on how he or she should do this and this. I don't think it's to be specifically a law against a minister's decision on his own. Rather, I would like the General Assembly to set up a facility. Because of what? A senator says that, of course, the Minister must comply with all the laws and regulations, administration laws, staff laws, and their names all of them, we see the anguish of people working at Fish Labs for the past few months. We'll see what happens when you don't watch in the presence of soul, you just pick up your ears and carry everything you've got from the corner of the land to the side. This has a profound effect on people and is a serious matter. I believe that experience in this winter shows that this law is not at all in law, but it is not for the Council to decide.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u32	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is expected that the Presidency will be at the minister's office. This is part of the trident, the European Commission, the legislation and legislation, and that the legislature authority is entering the European Commission by determining that the Council has to determine where an institution is located - what is next? Should the council decide whether anyone can resign? How far are people going? This is part of the decision - making process, part of it, and therefore it belongs there. Of course, as with all government projects and activities, ministers must obey the laws, any laws that may be relevant to those decisions. Other than that, I want to say, because of what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir referred to a ruling committee, and other members of the council have talked about the massive length of my arm that really bothers me, that it is for the same reason the Constitution assumes that a minister is responsible for all responsibilities, i.e. so that no authority is being transferred to a administrative committee, an authorized people, who set the rights of the citizens. If they want to take this authority from the minister responsible for it, they're entitled to a administrative court. Isn't it? Is it not so much more natural that some people whom the Minister has no connection with and has nothing to tell the city's rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u33	A respectable president. I've heard before that there's some kind of executive authority in the country and then a legislature. The legislators set up the law and the law operates. Also, there are times when the legislature authority operates on what the European Commission can do. Even if those who have the authority to do so are independent, they cannot simply do what they can. This is exactly one of the points mentioned in the report of the General Assembly Committee that I quoted earlier in my talk that the project had been rather aggressive in the early years before the crash, and we all learned from it. In this case, the establishment of institutions may be called for. I believe, as I said before, that winter this year proves that a unique counseller, an individual person cannot be trusted to exercise this authority, and the law needs to have his fingers in it. That's my opinion on these matters. She's different from the senator, and I'm kind of a big-time president. In terms of the decision-making committees, I believe that there is a discussion that we need to discuss. It may be better to have a judicial court here. That's exactly what I'm saying, there's need to be a discussion. That's why I hate that these things are being put into this bill. That's what I was trying to say, that it wouldn't get the publicity it needed. These things need to be looked over, the judges and all of them. All of this needs to be considered in context. It may well be that we will agree sometime, eventually. [[The president calls.]] Well, that's mostly what I want to say. That's why I hate to be smuggled into such a bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. She was in her talk on 1st paragraph. in the context of the requirement that the minister of a private agency that he hears unless otherwise is recommended in the law, should be remembered in the context of the fact that changing the social security law is canceled from the law on the establishment of the insurance agency and its decision-making authority on its location to the minister. Now I think it's particularly important that an institution such as an insurance agency is a center, for example, that it is very well connected to public transportation, since the group with it may be the most unlikely group to have a private car. Therefore, the location of the institution, not just where it is in the country, but just where it is within the urban population, is extremely important. In this regard, for example, the location of Iceland's Medical Insurance, which is just around the edge, is most unfortunate for those there to attend. It may have been a little ride, but I wanted to ask you why. A member of Parliament, whether she believes that a minister has this authority, as suggested in the bill, is more likely to promote mental decisions and, in a beautiful way, might be called a ballot of party politics, which in the Icelandic language is just a ballot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u35	President. I was going to say something about it. A senator would have found a fancy and dignified word for a ballot, an economistly acceptable party political bitch, a very good word. [[Up front.]] Honorable President, I'm saying just as it is, I don't fully understand why we should put it out of the law that the Bank of Insurance has landed in Reykjavík. There are probably few institutions that have to go to such places as insurance, and in spite of all of them, most of us live on this corner of the country, although at times we may feel someone, especially in this hall, is that we are so part of it. But I'm saying, as I'm saying, I don't understand that it's being canceled, unless it's to be moved to Kopavog or something like that. We've also had experience of the successful transfer of the stocks, don't you think, is the birth stock of the Ummbulsk, and someone else's fund? It's been going and going well, and then it's fine. But if it has become a special goal to take agencies from Reykjavík and move them to some country, even if only in neighboring communities, I feel that I have turned this whole thing all upside down a little bit. We senators here in the capital, perhaps just have to stand up with it and at least let us know that this is neither normal nor normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to direct another question to why. A senator where she has a seat. Board of Directors and Control Committee. In view of the greater portion on the registration of information, the Committee's meetings were discussed on Article 4. the bill that suggests this change to Article 11. The law says that instead of saying an obligation to keep a formal contact and meeting record, they will be referred to important meetings and communication and that there would be any discrepancies to be carried out on the registration of information and that would be consistent. Hence, the majority of the committee's share, which is why. A senator does not belong to, to a change that reads so, by permission of the president: ▪ For formal communication and meetings, as well as informal contact should be submitted if considered important, between the management board's recruitment and non-participants. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because she's in bed. A management and monitoring committee, whether it considers this change, which the majority of the Committee suggest will improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u37	A respectable president. I think so. I believe this adjustment proposal is an improvement. True, it does not appear in my committee's section that the minority supports this adjustment, but I think I'm correct in saying, a respectable president, that it has been shown in the committee's chairman's talk. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son last night, when he recommended the minor opinion that we support this change. So there was the organization or I don't know what to call it, the IMMI who called it and recommended this change. The lesser part supports it. You can see in your mind that it is by nature not a simple matter how to write down this information. I remember that when the law was given in 2011, it was very much discussed. However, they made this adjustment, and there was no disagreement, and there was no disagreement with the officials, who had likely been doers of the original proposal in the bill. There was no disagreement, however, about the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u38	Mr. President. We're talking about a bill about a change in the U.S. Board of Directors and an opinion related to that. There's a lot I think there's something I need to talk about. It is a long way from my accepting as a professional administration within the board and that it will be added with the intention of prime minister in this bill to give general authority to determine the sites under which the institutions are, almost without a minister having to consult with any man. How Would You Answer? g., with the permission of the President: a state-of-the-art attorney says he is in charge of the establishment under which he is hearing, unless the law says otherwise. I don't think this article is a good guide in the bill and kind of backwards. Like I said in 1st. on the matter, this law was taken from the law in 2011, and it is therefore to be put back in. However, there is more evidence to support not having the law, for it was determined after three discussions, not from the law, but from the law. Three discussions were conducted, so this decision was prepared. So this is a bit of a specific argument for 1st. this is how it should be. We have to support this logic. Why is this important? Why does a minister have to decide where an institution should be? Is that good for our country? How will this benefit the Council? And above all professional values, how can it be said that this is good? At least I don't experience it. We've been talking about bills that have moved the authority to the minister and that's exactly what this bill is, that's why I'm not very into it. There's been talk of the transfer of Fish Room, which was a bridged methodology that I don't like. In my opinion, a certain mismanagement of public service to the country's home may result in the intention of implementing it as the ultimate purpose. The seafaring and agricultural minister was. I don't generally approve of the Ministership that I feel is involved in this bill, that a minister should draw more power to himself. As I said, there have been more cases than this. Regarding the fishing lab, it was not established whether this was consistent with the overall impact of how we are going to build up jobs in the country, if that was to be part of it. We also know that public employment has been cut down, both now and in the past government has been reduced, and putting one specific agency out into the country does not solve the problem. We need to visualize things in a larger context, to look ahead, and at the same time look at the leak on the job than at the highest. As there is a leak of well - educated jobs, a minister of education has gone a long way to reduce the number of institutions, unity, and so forth. We also went to the Work Office, Marine Research Institute, and Substitute in Akureyri, where we did an extremely good job and worked hard and well in the cases there. For some reason, the country's population is often bleeding when cutting its own ends. I think it's our job to keep the institutions from cutting down their branches, if we can talk about it that way, in the country. We should be able to affect it. For example, the annual work that has been done in the country is much in the health - care sector and a lot of work done by women. I repeat, we need to look at things in a larger context than they do here and I don't think a minister has the dictatorial authority I think he is committed to. Also, there is no quick question about why a minister should suddenly decide for himself where the institutions are located, away from all conditions that may be needed to lay the foundation for such a decision, which is based on my knowledge of professional factors. I believe, as with so many other matters, it is the best way to go through the Generals. I reiterate that this law was canceled in 2011 for no reason. It was written a fine report known as the General report, which included the violence involved in such measures as the one being proposed. As members of Congress, I think it's more likely that we'd like to put that process into law, in some legal form, how we want to transfer organizations, whether in the form of a synonym or something else, so that a minister would bring it into the council, and there would offer a sound argument that we'd come up with. I think that's the way we're supposed to go. As I see this in the bill, the Minister is given the complete loose reins, and he doesn't have to reason with this in any way. I think it's completely unacceptable. The study report called for increased transparency and democracy, and this does not involve any of them. This is where I think it's control of the highest. Prime Minister continues. I just want to talk about 6. The bill and its purpose. It says, by permission of the President: The head of the Department's Office shall be organized by dividing it into trade agencies and each office should be directed by the Office Manager under the management of the Ministry. At the same time, it is permitted to set up specific services and services, which are a part of the Ministry. Then you might ask yourself, " When we commit administrative institutions into the Ministry, do we have a simple way of doing business? ' Do we strengthen the Ministry or weaken by doing so? I wondered what's going on about what is going on in the explanation of the bill, the prime minister has criticized that a project was taken from councils to independent administrative institutions. In comment, we're 6. has discussed the internal organization of the advisers, and it seems to me that it is best to reduce the number of so - called administrative institutions and to create operations within the Ministry or some government agency. Because there was one such institution mentioned earlier, and I have a seat on the General and Education Committee that I would like to say is being made up of an institution called the National Institute of Education, where I feel that a minister has done way too much before he has been given authority to the Agency. It combines a research organization with a study centre, which differs from any unity that may exist. This has been seen in the case of those who have given that authority. It's a administrative unit, certainly outside the Ministry, but it's out of control, it's expected to be professional. The minister may have a motive in this. Bottom-of-view comments on 6. Whether such changes are to be made is quoted by a committee that is now in the board of directors and has been assigned to identify the state's positions, strengths, and weaknesses. I wondered, and it's stated in the majority opinion on page. 3, because it was not shown when the minister spoke to the case at his time, which he so closely follows, by not being in a house, but it is a different matter, when we get to see this conclusion. It says later in the article, and then I quote directly, with the permission of a president: ◯ No general policy has been behind this trend, and there are very different reasons for such changes. However, it seems that in some cases the purpose of such changes was to remove the authority of the decision from the political authority of the minister. This, of course, is an important support of reason. It is not in itself true that the general policy has been lost when administrative projects were taken from councils to administrative institutions, as this bill puts it, but policy measures were designed to increase the maintenance of administrative matters with the aim of improving professional work. The institutions we have repeatedly discussed, and in this context, I can mention, for example, the government's banking department, the office of special prosecutors, and the SEC. These are all administrative institutions that the Minister of Prime Ministers would like to enter the Ministry, but we last discussed the Bank Office, which is for the treatment of the council. I am deeply concerned with the tendency to withdraw everything into the Ministry, and I believe there is an increased risk that the institutions of independence will be put at risk and the wide variety of arm lengths and the necessary support for the management board to prepare for. When it comes to handling lawsuits within the institutions, and then I'm talking about the length of arm I mentioned earlier, I don't think it's a good idea that there should be a special unit within the Ministry, which is thought here to be sufficient to meet the opinions of those who have been with the judges, who have that distance. It is also said that even a special administrative committee can be set up. It would be interesting to see if he would replace any of the decision - making committees and who he would prefer to replace. It doesn't seem to mention it in the members of the greater part, if I've not missed it. So there are many things to consider. Besides, it's moral standards. I just want to talk about them. They are not widely discussed in the members of the greater section, they are just a few lines. But I think it's a very big matter, and the thing that scares me most is the part that has to do with moral standards in the management board's activities and, of course, the moral standards for ministers themselves and their jobs. True, there are certain terms of ethics now established by the Council, but this is within the board of directors of the board. That's what the 8th says. The bill that the Ministry of Presidency gives governments advice on the interpretation of ethical principles when it is looked for and follows that the code of ethics fulfills its purpose. In the bill, the prime minister decides to lay down the current co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administration. It is good to recall that she was appointed three years of age and was appointed by the chairman of an unregistered seat, one by the motion of the management Board, a representative of the government's personnel business, two representatives of government officials, and two others chosen on the basis of his expertise in administrative and ethical matters. It is true that there was a committee established in the past government and was to be appointed independently to advise governments of measures to prevent interest prevention and corruption in cooperation with member organisations, institutions, and national and foreign agencies to counteract corruption in the public sector. This is a professional committee to report their work annually to the prime minister in which further measures to strengthen confidence in the government's administration are to be made to reduce the risk of corruption and more effective in administrative matters. The report of the Commission should be followed by the current European Commission legislation to be submitted to the General, where it would be expected to be discussed. The bill we're dealing with is going to the highest. Prime Minister to put down this committee, cancel the Committee on Moral Standards for the Government. V.E.G. The prime minister of Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson is going to take on the work of the committee by himself. He intends to evaluate moral standards for the administration and thereby evaluate the moral standards of his own government. As far as I can understand it, a prime minister takes over almost dictatorial authority on the interpretation of moral principles that apply to all the administrations. I wondered, " Is it acceptable to put down a committee of seven people that weighs and values moral standards for Icelandic government and that instead alone one man should take care of it and approve and value the moral standards of the Icelandic government? ' I don't think so, and that's one of the reasons I can't quite accept this bill. I don't think it serves the purpose of the bill, which I think is in many ways nice, i.e. to improve information and professional administration within the Board of Directorates. I don't think it's a focus, and it's stated in the government's policy declaration that government administration and government services should be improved. I also ask: What is the moral standards of the prime minister himself regarding the administrations and the duties of the minister and his work? Who should appreciate his work and his minister? By permission of the president, I would like to quote Jón Ólafsson's article at the University of Bifrost, published in August. In this article, he noted that the prime minister did not take the time to appoint new cohesion committee on moral standards in the administrations that I have considered and established in 2010, but during his three - year - long hours, the Committee was taking care of the Convention for Ministers, Directors of Governments, and general government personnel. Jón asks himself why we need ethics, why we need moral standards for the administrations, and he says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Moral standards are not complicated. They're long gone into industry and administration. Now it would be easy for companies and institutions to set standards of ethics on the grounds of promoting good practice and setting staff clear moral standards, however, to indicate the principle of activity. However, ethical standards are not sufficient; they are only one step in improving practice. Most important, whether it is a job or an administration, people are trying to provide for the dangers of conflicting interests, corruption, or mismanagement and respond to such threats ahead of time. This is exactly the purpose of a minister's moral code: They are to be able to make good use of the rules to consider their decisions and actions. By following a moral code, they are likely to reduce their credibility or to claim that a different viewpoint is in control. Mr. President. If a prime minister plans to put down an coordination committee on moral standards in the administrations, it is worth asking whether it is a very difficult question to agree with the proposal for the establishment of the National Council proposed by Jakobsdóttir Jacobsdótir, chairman of the Left Green, has been proposed. It shows the need to have a code of ethics that guarantees the maintenance of a minister's work. I have much more to say about these matters, but I think we need to consider this seriously and ask ourselves, " Is this a government agency we trust to live in? Can we be sure that we are generally in the moral code here, or do we have no guarantee that a minister's actions are above moral standards? At the end of my case, I'd like to say that it's wish to be reviewed by a board of directors and inspectors, because I don't feel that the matter is being handled deeply in the majority opinion. The majority clearly believe that it is safe to put down the committee and that this is a completed committee, but at the same time it is stated under the standards of morality in the majority view: the Commission discussed the regulations of the bill on moral standards for which it is assumed that a special coordination committee will be submitted but that the Ministry of Justice will take over its task. Later, it states: "The more part feels that ethics, discussions, and working with them should be an active part of the work of recruitment and institutions. Set moral standards, you see, are part of these active factors. While humans may always have some base, which are the good values we want and work for, it is so that as we discuss these things very regularly, as is the point, it is good to have some outside party or side that can see it from a little more distance. So I hope the committee takes the matter back and discuss it more than she has done, because it is often a matter of opinion or question. Of course, I don't sit on the committee, that it's all been done before and that may be, despite all the results, I have no doubt that it may be quite possible. There's one part I have left, and I'll be with him later in speaking, but he's doing the job of the management department. These are the things I find most important in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's speech. However, there are differences of viewpoints in the language under consideration. On the one hand, the ability and ability of those in authority in the country each time to organize their work, their focus, implement their policy, and then the system is built up to a degree of flexibility in order to reach its goals. On the other hand, it is the way it treats the organizations under the Kingdom. This bill enables the government and prime minister to move to institutions without such decisions being discussed at the council. Actually, I was in the middle of something. A senator gave his talk by giving a talk to give a talk. Since the last term on exactly the changes in the Council of Control, it is of interest to note that few material speeches have made their way into a prime minister today. But quite away from them, I think we what. A senator would agree on the fact that by the premeditation of a fishing facility and that method, it might have been better handled by staff and they would have been better informed of the contemporaneous approach and worked with the staff, but I would like to ask if it is not necessary to have a built - in flexibility in the system so that changes can be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u40	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. If I've understood him right, he'll see to it that any organizations can be exported without the presence of the council. I feel in accordance with the situation that has developed, including. with land measurements and now the anticipated transport of Fish Labs, there's no evidence that this has been so successful that there is reason to believe that it will succeed in the future. This may turn to what I did not come into my speech, i.e. The staff. Of course, it's not just a house, a tool, it's people, so as to achieve its aims in each government, they always have a political expression and may always end up with a political expression, but at least we take up a discussion about it at a council and discuss the pros and cons of doing this instead of being the decision of some one minister, whoever he is. At least I can't imagine that I would like to have some flexibility in that a minister could carry a government agency -- I don't know, how big does an institution have to be so big that we feel it's a government agency? Is it one employee or five? People may want to draw their line somewhere. But I feel that the prince's hand should be that we discuss such things at the council and make a mutual decision with material coverage that all things come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u41	A respectable president. I make it clear that I believe that such decisions should be discussed here at the council. I also feel that each one should be able to decide for himself how to manage at least a switch of projects when it comes to the Management Board itself, i.e. the ship of counsel and what litigation are involved, but she has to take it through the council. One of the problems we face here by Icelandic government and the other is that the Ministry compared with its institutions is relatively weak. When it comes to expertise and human resources, the Ministry is often much smaller, and nothing nears the point of human beings to cope with the project. As a result, subsidiary institutions are much stronger when it comes to projects, calculations, and such things as conflicts and conflicts that may arise. This creates a very abnormal position. Similarly, the balance of power between the Council and the Council, in my opinion, is greatly distorted. Of course, we need to aim for ways to strengthen all these factors so that they can work best together. Of course, changes made by humans have to serve the goal of making the institutions that are created and put together to serve the goals of the common people as good as possible. But I am primarily stressing the view that even if the matter is being discussed at the council, it doesn't have to mean that there are no changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I have only quoted a report of the Allied Committee of Research, which included the fact that the Ministry had just become too weak, they had become too small. The last government went to unite them. Hv. A senator speaks of the recruitment ship, or Board of Management, as being able to be somewhat dependent on the head of every government. I'm not entirely convinced that it's good in itself. Now everything is being replaced, or whatever, with even more doing it. It is also a great challenge for the government to do such things, and part of the opinion that the Ministry was too small, that they were not strong enough when it came to their institutions and efficiency. But, of course, all these changes, I agree, I turn to strengthening the ministry, and we are to prepare for it so that we can serve the public in the country as fully as possible and that efficiency is the most efficient. What's the best way? Likely, we have not yet found it, with either what was done last or now, but of course we do well to ask: Do certain things need to last longer than they are allowed to do? We choose every four years, and we like to be changed in some way on the bridge, and everyone has different viewpoints about what this is supposed to be like. The other is that as we examine these specific institutions, which are administrative but are not within the Ministry, are set up in Aggressor or anywhere else, there is, of course, expertise and knowledge, but does this strengthen the Ministry by se? I don't know if it serves the purpose required. Some institutions can be assigned without being administrative institutions. So there are many things to think about in this, and I think that, first of all, the process needs to be careful, not to do it the way it has been done a bit now with the National Institute of Education, to start before the source is obtained, and without proper evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u43	President. I thank the senator for his good speech. What is mainly striking at the bill is the timing, the same as when it is being replaced by the maintenance role of the Generals, and the authority of the Commission. There is no way to ensure that all voices and consultations are heard in things done with Fishing Room, that process was started before the adjustment was made. But count 'em why. A senator that if there had been a law like that in force, would that have been a success? Or what is needed in order for these laws to be administratively viewed as good, just so that you could be reasonable? I've heard it from the greater part, and in his opinion it is spoken, how important it is that the management staff be mobile. Is this perhaps the most important and necessary thing to do not allow the political process to get in the simple administration of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u44	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. The role of the Generals; that may be what I feel is taken away, and I talked a little bit about. What is needed to make a success of the process, as was mentioned in the Fishing Room or other? I have taken the Institute of Education as an example, although it is actually uniting two institutions and creating administrative institutions, it is not taking up an entire institution and moving it into another region. It is primarily this consultation and cooperation and preparation and conversation that occurs at the wrong time, seems to be, with the government. I have always believed that it is of good things - because here we discussed achieving their political goals, how you could do so best - how to be very well prepared and have discussed the matter with those coming to it. This must result in better results and results. Regarding the mobility of personnel within the board there are differences of opinion about this, i.e. whether all positions are advertised or whether this motility should be larger than it is today. I noticed that in the majority opinion it stands, by permission of the president: Since the Republic of Germany, experience with legalized sources in 2011, the majority of government officials have found it to be normal to extend it. The minority opinion is indicated by the permission of a president: In the reviews to the Committee, it presents a criticism of the provision made by representatives of the employee. This includes the lack of experience with the transfers of employees in the current law. At the same meeting, people sit and interpret things in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u45	President. Thanks for the answer. This whole thing is a little strange, even the Senate is no. 666. What I wanted to ask, and I don't quite understand, to be reasonable: Is there anything that guarantees that there will be real partnership and cooperation with these institutions and individuals - let's not forget that institutions are only good about what employees are there and what knowledge they have, what are there. I wondered if in this proposal for a considerable revolution in the administration, there is something that will make sure that it doesn't work out the way it did with the Fish Room. It was very serious how the matter was handled. This bill gives the counsellors more authority and takes the project out of the control of the Generals. Is there anything that convinces the senator that if there were such laws, the discussion, the heart of the matter, would be different?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u46	Mr. President. No, my knowledge is nothing that guarantees that it can't be exactly what happened. If the warrant had been present at the time of its highest level. A seafaring and agricultural minister planned to move the Fish Room to Akureyri, I don't know if it had, despite the circumstances surrounding it, that's what's going to happen. Of course I don't know. I'm just trying to get into the gaps. Any wise ministers who want to increase their jobs anywhere or prepare them a new place - if they want what is available, the people who work there, for the best if they want to keep the human staff inside the door - must want to talk about it. If you make such a personal decision that concerns a lot of people, their everyday lives, no matter who they are or where they live, it turns into people's hands. This has been done both times. As we know, we have an example of geological readings that will come true. No one is saying that in some cases it can't happen. But it can also permanently damage the Agency, before things start to improve. I also wondered: " Does a minister need such great authority? Is there anything that says that the management department will improve as a minister has more authority? We're not in a dictatorial state, some of us probably wanted to be, but it's not, we're in a democracy. This is also the question about the ability to share things so that people will experience themselves as an active participant in the changes being under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u47	President. In other words, with these changes, it's like going in a direction that I don't like. It is being moved into the hands of the individual advisers who in my mind are not improving, for it means less consultation, less transparent, less appendage. I'm very much in favor of giving us greater authority to the Generals. I think it's the most successful way to the administration. I don't want to put more power into the hands of individuals who are supposed to carry out the will of the Generals - it's actually been totally reversed and the general public will of the Council is doing. It's not just a government government in Iceland that has that reality. It's government around the world. Our democracy has become very weak, there is little trust. A new survey, since today, found that people do not trust us to be guided by the welfare of the public. I think it's a rebuke for us here at the council and figuratively in many respects that we are discussing this matter at the same time, and our trust has become so limited. We really need to settle what government we live in, and I don't think this is the right way for things to happen. I can agree with the view that it is important to simplify my administration and have the misunderstanding as little as possible. What we have seen from the carrying out of major activities that are often based on individual well - thought - out decisions has not worked out well. We do not have to look very far back in history to see all the catapults around the production project in Fish Room; enormous human beings have been lost; workers have had to get emotional help out of the way this has been done. She's a disgrace, I just have to say it, and it's not to our credit. I have great sympathy for people who are going to move without any cooperation or consultation; jobs can be transferred between part of the country, and government agencies, but they need to be done right. And all around this is wrong, that's just the way it is, everybody who has studied it knows it. I'd like to look at us here at the council. Do we want to, when we are here to represent a representative of a representative democracy, accept the important responsibility it brings by finding ways to ensure that the government does not have all the authority? This bill is not in that direction, nor is it consistent with the interpretation adopted by the Allied Council of America as to what we were going to learn from the events and consequences of the collapse. So the bill gives me a Spanish view, and it is a kind of response bill to the situation in which a Fishing Room was to be moved to Akureyri. I don't just want to be a pain in the ass, I want to commend the committee, and especially the majority, for taking notes on which little has been discussed in the bill, that is in Article 11. and is about the registration of information; something that my associates and I cut down specifically and got through being corrected. I'd like to read the revised proposal from the greater part of it and, at the same time, thank you for taking into account that there was clearly a mistake when this adjustment was due to occur, regarding the registration of information. THE committee's meetings were also discussed on Article 4. the bill that suggests this change to Article 11. The law that, rather than having an obligation to keep a list of formal relations and meetings, they will be referred to important communications and meetings. In agreement, there's a 10th paragraph. the bill suggested a change to 2 mg. Twenty-seven. Information to include important information on government communication with the public and other governments in the same way as other important information. The Committee stated that there are any discrepancies to be carried out on the registry of relevant problems. It also suggested that important communication, instead of formal communication, is an over-recognised term that could lead to decisions about written formal communication and meetings that might be too dependent on whims or mental opinions of those who are to be listed. This is a sensitive subject in which overexact definitions could increase the risk of avoiding protocols on the registration of communication. The majority agree on the need to ensure that the best registry of relevant information can be made and therefore suggests that the scope of the procedure will be even more detailed, i.e. to present a list of formal relations and meetings, as well as informal contact if considered important, between the management board's recruitment and non-party parties. ◯ I'm very welcome to this proposal, and I wish that you could only have a bill with exactly these changes in this article and take out the parentheses with all the other language that I think is much more important; the bill is about something quite different than the little smell you can smell inside it. That's how you think of laws like that over your head. It is amazing that laws are written in a strange language. One was hoping that a change would occur after a collapse. We live in a country where there is a Fundamental belief in the law, and the law's spirit is rarely viewed; it was one of the criticisms of the Allied Committee on the crash. Laws need to be that people understand them, that's important, and that's not just lawyers but generally. It's not today. This little piece that I read from the committee party of the greater part, and this is also the way it is written in the committee of my section - it's incredibly boring and too heavy to speak in these laws. Therefore, rather than having them, we should keep them for a drink of fresh water, so that no one can properly understand them, those who are to follow them. It's often forgotten. Who are to act in harmony with our laws? It's the people of the country. The law's not just written for lawyers, let's not forget it. But I would have liked to have with us in these discussions about prime minister's prime conversation, the prime minister himself. I would have so much like to have him here to discuss how Prime Ministers intend to secure, if he is entrusted with so much authority that he chooses to have, agree, and cooperate on such important things as the future order of various public institutions. I find it very boring, and suggested here, Mr. President, when this case came on the agenda--when a vote has been paid for it here in the hall, after a long meeting, etc. - that our beloved Prime Minister would be here with us and join us in our discussions. I haven't seen the highest. a dear prime minister in the Senate Hall discussing this matter today. I'd like to direct to the President that, in general, when we're dealing with matters coming from the government, there's the Minister who puts the matter here at the Senate Hall to take part in the answers. I feel that there should be a basic work order in the workplace that has so little trust. We need to fix it, and we fix it by having clean and normal conversation on a subject. The issue we have here for discussion is that it is stated on the very issues of decision making; decisions were made by the highest standards. Minister to move a government agency across the country before making the suggestion for a legal adjustment. I think it's a step back, and I think it's worth considering that the members of this section are supporting the bill. I thought the members of the greater part were democrats and that they were members of Congress, but this is not reflected in the bill. In itself, I have nothing extremely important to add, unless I was of the opinion of the lower body of the administrative and monitoring committee on this matter. I would like to read up in order to be maintained. I'm not going to read all of it, but I'd like to review what was most important to us, which is the permission of a minister to transport the institutions. The European part believes that we will review the old legislation on Iceland's Council of Government and the sentence of the current law has, in effect, been made a decision to dismiss the legal authority of the Minister to denounce the establishment of the institutions under which he will hear. There is a difference when an institution has taken root in a particular area, whether the work or the staff is looked into. This will affect the competitiveness of the Agency for staff. Another is the establishment of a new institution that is not built together by institutions or older ones, although, of course, a clear grammatical argument is needed at all times. I wondered, President: " Where will they come from? Will we be able to recall this to the council, or can the Minister do this without any help from the General? It's not quite clear to me, and I hope it is. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, when he comes here and answers me, may even answer the question I raised here. Can a ministerial servant or a noncommunicator decide to transfer organizations between parts of the country? I'll continue, with President's permission: The second section agrees with the viewpoint shown in the reviews that a decision presented by the minister for the transport of the Fish Room shows the importance of having the institutions established by law. There is evidence that a great deal of knowledge has already been lost, since many employees have stopped. In this case, uncertainty about the location of the Agency may also affect the possibility of recruiting qualified persons. This is what I have been discussing only in my speech. The majority believe that authority for Ministers to move institutions into private affairs without objective support, financial and professional assessments is an abnormal exponent on the authority of the Lawgiver. The source is designed to strengthen the European Commission at the expense of the legislature and considers it less dangerous to promote such trends when experience shows that there is always a need to limit the authority of the European Commission. This is exactly what I find so strange that the Independence Party can agree. I think it's very strange. This is somehow not exactly what I thought the Independence Party represented. But I'm going to let this speech of mine be done. I can't wait to hear more about it. I feel that in itself is quite simple, but I would like to hear more views and arguments from members of the greater part as well as from our beloved Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Her daughter, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I would like to quote a talk that is the highest. In May 2011, Prime Minister, who was then a member of the administrative body, gave the same information. Starting by President's permission: I think we need to take a look at the situation from the top, put it aside, and work on changing Iceland's Council of Peace and Compatibility, try to achieve the vastest solidarity, and that the government shows that it is serious with all these statements that so far have proved to be meaningless. She now has the opportunity to show that someone serious is behind them when they say that they want to cooperate. If not in this matter, when? With new legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, we should set a good example, but we should not agree to a failed bill to promote the European Commission at the cost of the legislature. On the contrary, to set a good example by a well - worked bill that strengthens democracy and promotes the position of the Lawgiver at the expense of the European Commission. This is a talk that I could well have given and can totally agree with every word. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does she know that something like this has happened before this bill was submitted?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u49	President. It was just an excellent speech that I could have given myself, too. But no, I don't know what's happening at the time. paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, requested that he himself, when made prime minister, have contributed to this entry into the council; I have not heard of it. But what you find a little strange and strange about this workplace is the prevailing view that people in smaller parts of the world will be surrounded by power. It's somehow so excessive meaningless and pathetic that people aren't according to what they're saying. I think it sucks, and I'm very disappointed that when people, like today, are very disappointed. The prime minister in the strength of his position as head of the Agency and then a senator gives such an excellent view of the importance of not handing over great authority over life and authority toward the administration without proper supervision and consultation, that it is not to follow the scepter of power into the Ministry of Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u50	A respectable president. I would like to travel back to May 2011 and still sit down in that talk. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson, Davíð of Gunnla, at present. Prime Minister, with permission of the president: There's an old sentence to be played, and that absolute power is completely lost, and that's why this bill is just so much of a concern. Because when the power is put together in one place, it does not fall for the good in the person but rather for the negative. Of course, it is shocking to witness what cannot be called mere hypocrisy, and it is grudgingly visible in this case when men have walked with great harshness and inconspicuousness and are criticized for what they then come here and do so clearly themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u51	President. Thank you so much for this trip back in time. There were other times back then. But what I find a bit funny, too, or kind of sad, is that when we were in the position that the Generals' work frame was over, the project went wrong. A senator and his current highest. Prime Minister, for example, wanted no agreements. I was back then in smaller parts, and then I was with a smaller part of my team trying to get some retirement, but now the same senator, the present prime minister, comes with 87% of the cases that have been submitted since September last year and wants us to take care of them in a few days. It's just really weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u52	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir in my previous answer to my question of 1st par. This bill. She reads so, with permission of the highest. President: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. This has sometimes been known as the fishing room. There is now another social security law that also exists before the General, which is the very law to issue the terms of the establishment of the NTSB and to bring it to minister to determine its location. I pointed out in opposition to earlier today that it is very important that an institution such as an insurance agency is a center and well connected, for example, to public transportation, as there is a group that may be more likely than many other groups not to be on a private car. So I've mentioned the location of the National Social Security Agency as an example of an institution very badly located for those who are not in a car. I want to use this opening to ask you why. A senator's opinion on whether this 1st statement is valid. The bill is likely to contribute to badly thought - provoking decisions, or just decided overnight, when it comes to a ministerial servant's intervention of each institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u53	President. I'm so worried. We need a firm anchor around such institutions. As it is, the organization may not be the source of security for many who need to serve there. Recent news reports have been heard of people who have permanent disability and wheelchairs, and they have been that way since birth, who had to prove that they had permanent disability and wheelchairs and until they were proven beyond reform or care providers. It's a ridiculous board of directors. To add it - we're talking about people who need service, services we've agreed to be part of the community's foundation - and create more insecurity around that institution just isn't right. I strongly object to putting such authority into the hands of an individual minister, an executive who already has power beyond what is normal, I strongly object. To get into the insurance department from all institutions - that is, bet on those who cannot carry a hand for their heads. It's somehow the theme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I have to admit that I share her concerns. I'd like to use this later answer to have a word for it. The senator, 8th grade. The bill. It says, by permission of the president: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of morality in the following cases, provides instruction on these within the Council of Government, and monitors that they will accomplish their purpose. With this bill, it's going to be the highest. Ministers to submit moral standards for the administration, but they themselves take up her work. My question to the senator is, " Count back." A member of this arrangement is likely to increase the confidence of the public in government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u55	President. No, I don't think so. However, it may be noted that I am concerned with the real concern that what happens to us members of Congress is that we are always giving up responsibility. We're gonna hand over responsibility to the executives, hands to some officer, and then we're gonna sit here like some replacements to vote. I'm just asking: Is the members of the greater part going to sit here like some rowers and vote for 87% of all cases, as it is required Prime Minister, to go through here in the next few days? We need to go on a fantastic campaign to increase the credibility of this institution, and allowing such foolishness will not add to our credibility. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u56	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Birgitta of Jónsdóttir will be talking about a position of power, an important authority here, to determine where an institution is located. I don't think either one is really right. The Constitution expects ministers to perform and be responsible for all administrative activities. Of course, he does not perform more than a law permits. Making a decision on the location is not a very important one. A minister makes much bigger decisions and more decisions that have much more impact on citizens' rights and responsibilities than ever where one institution is located. We have this exchange, and I think it's important and talking about the power promotion in this relationship I think is the wrong word. Of course, each member of the Parliament decides how to limit the authority of a minister. A minister in general has this authority to hire people, to run people, to organize organizations, to change them. We can limit it by choosing for ourselves where the Agency is located. That's what matters. But it is natural that a minister would have all the authority he should have to study to the extent that we limit it. But when a minister decides to move an institution, he cannot do so on his own terms because there are laws. I'd like to ask the senator if he would agree with me in this matter of government law and law on the rights and responsibilities of the staff that need to be considered when making such a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u57	President. Based on the definitions observed in the context. The senator is quite clear - and I would like to ask again if the senator would not agree that all laws and laws should take place at the General Assembly rather than at the Commission, because the authority is to be carried out by members of the General Assembly. Why is it that we get some laws, some lyrics like this? This does not originate at the General Assembly. It's a monster of democracy, an absolute gossip of democracy. We're supposed to write the law and tell the company what to do. They're not supposed to sit here like some lords and be senators as soon as they're ministers. It's a total demurreness of democracy. If so, as it were. A senator here says that the European Commission is a power of law to carry out the will of the Generals, and the law should have its beginning and origin at the Council, and we should know who is to write what is in the law. That would be a normal management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u58	V.E.G. President. I can't start talking about democracy here in one minute, maybe it's complicated. I don't think it matters who the original text is to law. The Council appoints the law, and the Council finally decides what they say, no matter who wrote the beginning. I know all about it. Suppose the Ministry wrote no text, and all of this was done at the General Assembly. Neither was a what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir that all members of Parliament write it themselves? No, of course there would be employees here. Of course, it happens so that we eventually decide the contents, the General decides. It's never gonna be changed, so I think that to my own self it's high school. But because of him. A senator also said it was difficult to understand the law, I don't think it's hard to understand the law, and it doesn't have to be put on a square drive to understand it better. I think all you have to do is read them, work at reading them, explain them with the information you have, and then it's easy for everyone to understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u59	President. It's a little special, but it's amazing. A senator does not understand that he is in paradox with what he was saying just now. First, if the law had its origin and were written at the General Assembly, we would have a parapolitic job to plan where we're going with this community. Then we can get out of these conflict lines that are destroying society. We also knew exactly who wrote what and we would have a transparency about which part of the law is written where. Hence, it is not a matter of greeting the laws written in the plots; it is not quite clear who counsels on how the law is written. Of course, there should be absolute transparency. In many cases, stakeholders are able to write complex lyrics, very complex legal texts, which can be used by a whole herd of lawyers to cross and enter the gray areas of the law. I wish I had more than a minute to answer what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u60	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing a bill to legalize the European Commission's legislation on the Council of Government, No. 115/2011, with subsequent changes, mainly through planning recruitment and institutions. There's a bill on the roof. 666, No. 434. The primary objective of this bill is to improve the flexibility in the implementation of the European Commission in its strategy and management of recruitment and institutions. It is suggested that a minister be able to determine the location of the institutions that are under his direction. There is an increased legal scope for planning recruitment and expected to increase the mobility of workers. Then this bill is proposed to bind the Council of Ministers on State Affairs and the Office of the Ministers on Economic Affairs. I'm here to discuss the points I went over and to find at the beginning of the song bill and comments. Then I'm going to discuss these points based on the main objectives of the bill and follow the logic and coverage found in the Committee to Learn more part of the management and monitoring committee, which is correct. At the beginning of the discussion, the manager of a large section of the committee's opinion, Brassur Níelsson's son, was very familiar. The main differences in the reviews and discussion of the Committee were to Article 1. The bill responsible for the secretary's authorization to move to agencies that are under his direction. Then there was controversy and discussion about the 1 0th team. which are responsible for the general secretary's authorization to move to the state personnel between recruitment and institutions without the exception of advertisements. Most of all, however, disagreements and criticisms were found on the 1st floor. and the Minister's permission to move to organizations. It can be said that the proposed transfer to the highest level. A marine and agricultural minister in the Hafnarfjörður Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri and the reaction that this scheme called for had a lot to say and dyeed them in - natural, you might say, as at the same time there was a disagreement about the legal support that the minister had for deciding and performing that transport. A respectable president. I want to reiterate that this must always be the main objective that we are guided by a bill such as what we're discussing here, to increase flexibility in organization and control. We must call for such flexibility in the government to look for the utmost ways to maximise efficiency and create the most powerful basis for decision making. In the long run, such a approach will ensure the most practical use of tax money. Consider paragraph 1. In fact, with the permission of the president: ▪ At 2nd Gr. There's a new sentence that goes on and on. Ministers state the residence of an institution under which they hear unless the law recommends them otherwise. This includes responding, taking into consideration experience, the total review of the Council of the Management Board of the United States of 2011. By their sentence, the Minister of Ministers fell down to determine the establishment of the institutions that he hears. It must be considered special, as indicated in the bill's report, that it was not a objective of the overall review or that it was discussed in comments to the bill that was then submitted. In a paper with this bill on page 18. 3 says something that I consider important, by permission of the President: To be considered necessary in the law to be due to the interpretation of the Supreme Court on 2 mg. 13th par. The constitution, as per further discussion in comments to Article 1. The bill. However, these include suggest changes aimed at increasing the flexibility of the European Commission to organise their activities at any given time, and to improve the information administration and professional administration within the Commission. So here it is suggested that the laws of the older law be reinstated, of the Minister's permission to determine the establishment of the institutions under him, unless otherwise prescribed in law. Articles such as this were included in the 1999 Constitution and was considered necessary on the basis of the Supreme Court's Regulation from December 18, 1988, where the Supreme Court concluded on the basis of the Constitution that the current Environment Minister would have been forbidden to determine the transfer of Iceland's National Leaflet from Reykjavík to Ak Aranes without having a legal authority. On page 18. 4 of the bill says what the Supreme Court says and I'm going to trace it here by permission of the President: The Supreme Court's court has stated that although there is no direct command on the right of the local government to be located in Reykjavík, it will not be considered a sole minister of free choice as to where it should be. Requisite legal requirements for this procedure can preferably be made by ordering a constitution on the location of recruitment. If it had been considered to be so probably in later years that institutions under whom they heard also had a residence in the capital that it would not have to be stated by law. The Supreme Court's decision is clear that agencies will not be located outside Reykjavík unless they are authorized by law. On this basis it was felt that it would be necessary to disqualify such documents for a minister to decide whether the institutions would be located outside the city of Reykjavík. This was responded by law No. 121/1999. The same must be true today, therefore, in view of the fact that there was no explanation in comments to the law's bill on the 2011 revision. I can agree with the view that it must be right and natural to put such corrections as permitted by the Minister to determine the establishment of the institutions under him to hear that it is a normal part of the Minister's legal rights to those institutions. It is reported in the bill that at all times, the Council can legally determine where the institution should be located and that it should be established as directed. It is not the obligation of the government to raise legal rights for stock and management costs of such transport. I can agree with the views expressed in the bill to set general criteria for the development of changes in institutions and posts and employees' rights with such changes. Hv. In his background, Brumur the Brynjar of Níelsson discussed this well. The evidence I've traced there went wrong. paritaprevir Overseers of Níelsson's son, as well as reviews and comments of those who came before the committee. Of course, society has changed. An improvement in the technology and development of communications and communication, as mentioned in the Committee, makes geographic distances less difficult and less difficult to deal with. On the other hand, there is the view that employees have settled in an area where they have a job and are rooted and that they are not necessarily ready to break up on short notice. Hence, it is not necessarily possible for a ministerial servant to make such a one - sided decision. Hence, it is a very valid view, and it points out that the decision of the Supreme Court in the matter of the land was not based on just 2 mg. 13th par. It also applies to the opinions of administrative principles on government requirements for decision making and preparing decisions so that decisions will be made on the basis of objective views. I think that's the essence of a matter. I feel that it is important to correct the opinion of the majority of the members of a committee party, so I quote from the committee's opinion, by permission of the president: ▪ The more part believes that, in view of the general minister's employment privileges, it is right to establish a general minister's authority to determine the location of the official organisations. However, the majority feel that it is necessary for such decisions to be careful with the regulations on the objective of the administrative administration, in connection with the conclusion of the Alduke's agent because of the complaint of the staff of the Fish Lab because of plans for the Agency's planned transfer from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri. According to an agent's opinion, the declarations and letters of a minister directed to the staff of the Fish House and how it was possible that information was given on this matter to them was not in harmony with careful management practices. Then a minister should have consulted within the Ministry to see if a special legal right had been required to transfer the headquarters. It should be noted that the staff of the Fish Room had sent a complaint to the Allied agent on the matter. At the same time, the staff sent a review of the case, and on the committee's discussion, they made comments mainly to Article 1. The bill. I'd like to say here that the review of the workers of Fish Room is a good reminder that a careful administration should always be required, where a decision to make for such a transfer will be based on research and need analysis and careful preparation in consultation with managers and staff. The staff of the Fish Service noted that there was a significant shortage in this case. It's hard to argue with that, because it has the highest. A minister recognized this and responded to the direction given by U.S. Marshal IIis by taking into account the views of the staff at the highest level. A minister has, as he himself put it, and I quote his words in a newspaper article, not in a contest, nor in a war with the staff of Fishing Labs, to be observed. Hopefully, the result will be successful for fishermen and fishermen. This reminds us that when major changes are made, which include such extensive transportation as the experienced one with such an institution of great knowledge over long periods of time, the quality of success, and the change in future life. So it's a successful landing on top of the highest. Minister to decide after reviewing the case, including in discussions with staff, that the transport of the Fish Room will be extended, and workers will be given the choice to move north or remain at the Fish Room in Hafnarfjörður. I think it's appropriate to discuss this in detail the 1st paragraph. The bill concludes with this article, which naturally caused some differences. It is true, though, that there are conflicting views, as is evident in the comments given to the committee. For example, the review of the Agency, which has a clear role in strengthening national settlements and working on the development of economic life beyond the country's borders, can be applied. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ A National Institute of Health considers it desirable for a minister to have legal authority to determine where agencies under his authority are located. The government government is for all the people of the country, and it is funded with taxes paid by the people regardless of their population. A building agency also comes to the point where all of us must agree and can learn from experience, that there must always be careful attention to the positions and rights of employees in such major adjustments. The bill is as I came to this beginning of my talk about many more in the process of increasing flexibility in the administration and in planning for recruitment and institutions. I will next consider in my talk to begin with one point of another, which was a conflicting view of the committee's discussion. "B" Unit 10. The bill is required to change the laws on the rights and duties of the citizens of the state, No. 70/1996. After 1st mg. 7. The law comes with a new sentence, which, by permission of the president: It is considered, without the publication of a job vacancy for an application, to decide that an employee who is hired untimely to transfer for a given time or who is permanent between governments would be subject to the approval of the relevant director for the transfer and the employee himself. This is an dilation of the current legal authority so that workers can be transferred between recruitment and/or institutions. As the change is said, the flexibility of the provision of human resources, knowledge, and abilities needed to be increased is evident. As the bill shows, in 2011 a new set of laws came into place on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, which allowed employees to transfer between temporary or permanent appointments, as both ministers, both recruitments, and perhaps most important, the employee himself. Such sources create a much better alternative for human resources to cope with temporary stress. So this law is fully in line with the main objective of the bill to increase flexibility in the administration. The majority of the committee's list of criticisms identified in this article of the bill and the views reflected on the subject. In general, the management of human resources is considered to be a potential for development and thus to develop into a job and to apply knowledge across an organization not only to the desired but also to the most useful for the planning and staff. This is especially true of organization based on knowledge. In part, by permission of the president, the members of the committee's list of factors would say that the proposed change would increase the possibility of human use and response to temporary pressures. The main objective is to provide more and more opportunities for increased knowledge and progress in work, and the change is also likely to contribute to a greater cooperation between Member States. This clearly supports the primary objectives of this bill. Now, I'm going to come to the third major turn of action, which will lead to planning a plan, and we're going to discuss in Article 6. The bill, but the new 17th paragraph. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. This article is said in the existing bill, by permission of the President: The head of the Department's Office shall be organized by dividing it into trade agencies and each office should be directed by the Office Manager under the management of the Ministry. At the same time, it is permitted to set up specific services and services, which are a part of the Ministry. Such operations direct a government official, in the sense of law on the rights and duties of the employees of the state, under the management of the Ministry. Here is the most significant change that has to do with the organization, where it will be authorised to set up specific occupational and government agencies, which are a part of the Ministry, as mentioned in the billing text. Such organizational adjustments can serve as a goal for economic success and a simple control system. I estimate that there are as many problems as possible as there are agencies and departments and projects that depend on them. Apart from the primary objective of increasing flexibility in the organization, simplicity and practicality can be achieved. The majority of the panels believe that the administrative responsibilities of a minister may become clearer on the relevant issues and in such cases would improve the European Commission principle that, as mentioned in the Committee, a minister is still responsible for all the administrations. In comment there was a view, among other things, in connection with the development of sustainable administrative committees and administrative institutions, in which certain areas of the matter were the apart from the responsibility of the Minister in this context, that in some cases they might be able to weaken the minister's management role in the subsystems. It should be noted that the greater part takes note in its committee study that guidance on what views should be given the basis of decisions as to whether the right to combine with the Ministry's Subcommittee is not to be found in the bill, but the Board of Directors is now acting on a committee that is working on that issue. In VI. a section on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland is a discussion of moral standards. That, however, has been a matter of reason. Councilmen who have brought up this legal bill, and some were included in the committee's study. Twenty-fiveth. the legislation on the activities of the European Council of Human Rights is discussed on moral standards, and it is decreed that the prime minister will ship a cohesion committee for three years at a time as expected by the current legislation. But in this bill of law, it's suggested in Article 8. that this committee be put down. This has been criticized. The Ministry of Presidency will accept these assignments and become advisers on the interpretation of ethical principles, conduct their education, and monitor their purpose and regularly consult the Council's agent and the Government Reconsistencies to ensure harmony. In general, when I look at the rules of morality, where the Commission's orders came out, they are to be part of everyday activities and an active part of any activity. Guidelines and guidelines for imitation of decisions highlight the highest level of professionalism available. These are always guiding standards that are meant to be part of a regular job. A respectable president. As my time is running out, I went along in my speech to support the main objective of the bill on increasing flexibility in the European Commission planning and the management of human resources and to say that the main changes I went over in my speech here, on the general authority of the Minister to determine the establishment of institutions, legal scope for planning recruitment and increasing the mobility of employees, are a failure to contribute to the progress of its main objectives. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u61	President. I thank the senator for his speech. He was told about the flexibility and efficiency of the government and the office system. I think we all want the state display to be as effective as possible. Nevertheless, I believe that there must be a balance there, efficiency must not be a priority because there are other factors that are very important in the administration, which are trust and responsibility, and the faith of the people in this country, the people who need to use the administrations, that they are right and fair. It is important and cannot be valued for money. Hv. A senator carefully reviewed Article 1. The bill, saying that envelopes are colored by the so - called Fish Office, which they are sure about, and then he runs it down the sad story it was all together, a sad story for the people who have needed shock relief and families who have been worried about all winter and for the minister himself who made this decision, and after that he has not done the right thing. The key point of all of this is that it was not a legal warrant for the delinquency and the confusion. Did the senator think that this would have been better for the employees and the people involved if the legal warrant had been given, would the anguish of the people have been diminished if it had been perfectly clear that the minister could have done this and the people should have moved in three months? Does he believe that this law will make things different, making the administration and the human government better than it is today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for the question. First, I'd like to say that this warrant doesn't change anything there. I am raised so that authority and responsibility are to be met, and there is no cabinet minister who has a administrative responsibility for all his activities, which is the exception of the responsibility to follow administrative procedures of careful and objective administrative administration and decisions. Hv. A senator spoke of priorities. I was just shaving the case as it is, as it happened. That was not my word, and those words may well be appropriate. But I traced the case exactly as it is and right up to the vote of an agent and the response of the highest degree. Minister. This led to the conclusion, as was the case in its case. I'd like to reiterate that whether it's a warrant or not, we can never shoot off responsibility and power together and that we have the laws of government to set us up and all those guidelines on the issues and logical decisions, emphasis on moderate honors, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u63	A respectable president. It's similar with us who. A member of the council where we are probably liken to be raised, and we are as raised, sounds to me, in the sense that we are brought up with authority and responsibility and authority. This is because the human spirit is so prone to drift away and especially when there is great authority. We've seen it here in recent years, we saw it in the years before collapse, and today we see what it seems to be difficult for some to use power without getting off track. Therefore, I believe that it is absolutely necessary that one man or woman does not have the law to determine where the institutions should be located. That's my view of that bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for her opinion. I'm not sure she would have left me a question for the second time, but we were discussing that power and responsibility go together, and we agree wholeheartedly on that. As for the authorization to determine the establishment of the institutions, this is always the administration ceremony of the European Commission and the Minister as part of the Commission should have the legal support if it seems that this might be to improve and increase effectiveness in the management and organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson before the talk, she was shaken and well, explaining many things as he had hoped and cited them. But there's one thing I'd like to ask the senator about and think about. When the bill was presented, I gave a little talk about it. But what has always caught my attention after I began to observe politics, especially after the General's research report came out, you wondered what had gone wrong. Among other things, there is an interview with a former minister in the report, which reported almost all of them, that Ministers and Governments were absolute in Iceland and that they would need to change and support the surveillance of the Generals. Volume 8 of the report says in one place, with the permission of the president: To promote the authority of the individual politician, there is a higher probability of a arbitrary decision. This is often accompanied by a narrow view of democracy, which involves regular government possession of their actions under voters' judgment and between which they should have free hands for what they do in their power, as long as they remain within the bounds of the law. This is a very narrow view of democratic legal governance. It is an important part of the democratic government's order of making decisions in order to maintain an opinion and to accept them in a reasonable way with those in question. From that point of view, democratic administration requires professional, planned, well - thought - out, not just that the works of politicians are put into the judgment of voters at the end of the term. This is what caught my attention on this matter, and I would like to ask. A member of Parliament: Does he feel that this bill is in the spirit of trying to correct this, to meet the results presented in the General Report, that this Ministership was complete? Few of my neighborhoods are being seen as extra Ministers, although you can well understand the need to be flexible in the system, where ministers are being given absolute authority to do whatever he wants to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u66	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for answer. He linked the input of the bill we're considering, the changes in the Management Board laws, to the report of the Allied Committee and the conclusions drawn from that great task, of government and Ministership, and of whether we're taking steps with this bill. I conducted my talk over the bill and its contents based on the main objective of increasing flexibility. In our administration, there is great knowledge and the requirement for the general organization of knowledge companies is to build on organized flexibility so that ability, skills, and knowledge can be most efficient. Then we'll be stuck with the next question, i.e. of those who govern such organization, the minister in this case. He is given great authority, but he also has weighty responsibilities. In the studies that we naturally followed the collapse, this massive financial collapse, we realized that we needed to strengthen surveillance as well as maintenance, and I thought we were doing well, for example, with the institution of the committee on this bill, the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u67	V.E.G. President. I can say with what. A senator needs to be flexible inside institutions. For example, I don't particularly object that it is possible to transfer employees between recruitment practices. Of course it's just good. There may be increased development and greater mobility, and people may gain more experience and knowledge. There's a lot of knowledge in Icelandic government. Changes were made to the Council of Management in 2011 in an effort to reduce the Ministerial Training and enable the council to fulfill its role more fully. I think that's a key. As it became clear in this intricate fishing shop language, it was now more a huge mess that might have made us think even better about setting rules that would have been the way ministers could use their power, but exactly as the senator entered it had a very bad effect, and now after that the decision, almost one agency is in ruins, despite the fact that much demolition is going on right now. But I think the bill is giving Ministers way too much power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for his opinion here in the latter instance, rather than a question, we are still discussing the authority and responsibility of a minister. I want to reiterate that it's important - because of it. A member of the United States named Fish Office, and I went over it in my speech, and I've told it that power and responsibility to go together, this is the administration of the European Commission - that the Minister should have all the views and problems in all administrations, may be moderate and practical, and will well investigate and consider why this decision is being made or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson before his speech, she was about a lot of interesting experiences. A senator is a man of hope. There are a few things I would like to have a place to say. A senator about. The question now was made. A member of Parliament that the General will always be able to determine by law where an institution should be located, and it is not necessarily possible for a minister to decide where it is. I'd like to put this in touch with another law bill that's about social security. It is here to determine the exact location of the law's residence and to the minister's office. On the one hand, we have the laws we're talking about here, where 1st par. Another bill, however, required that a minister arrange the residence unless otherwise recommended by law, and another bill, which is to establish the establishment of the institutions. When it comes to two matters, I ask myself, " Is it not understandable that I am concerned that in the name of flexibility it is being promoted as ministers and making it easier for me to make poor decisions, or even emotional decisions, to be taken as we have seen in the fishing room, that we are, in fact, making it easier for us to be able to do so? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A very good example for Árnadóttir's aged daughter and a very difficult question. I admit this because it is difficult to say no that it cannot be opened up to the same amount of power that can be abused. Then I go back to the fact that if the government law is in charge, as it should, and the matter is considered and examined, I assume the minister will not make such a decision on his own, but will seek counsel as in the opinion of an agent in the fishing business. In the case of an insurance agency, the nature of the case, general sense, first of all without major research, you would say that access is important, that it is central, and that there is a knowledge we need, which we need, on the basis of a very complex law base, etc. There are a wide range of variables to be taken into consideration before making a decision. This is primarily the requirement that we must always make to those who govern, whether it is a minister, with this great authority, or to anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u71	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the answer, even though I may not fully agree with him, as goes on and on. But okay. I'd like to use the second answer to make it to 8. The law. His talk presented some difficulty. A senator rightly admitted that authority and responsibility relate to and cause are linked with responsibility. In that light, I want to discuss 8. ..... that the Ministry of Presidency gives governments advice on the interpretation of ethical principles in the event of a follow-up. I'm asking why. A senator is not afraid that the Ministry of Presidency, a part of the government, is too close to advisers, including himself. If this happens, is it not likely that the public's trust in the government will simply be reduced because it is so strong?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Árnadóttir For a question about morality and 8 par. I'll be able to quote here the comments on the 8th paragraph. in the bill. It says: The role of the Committee has been to shape moral standards in the form of ethical rules, to introduce such rules, to promote discussion, and to give advice on how to interpret them. It was thought that since the appointed time was over, the committee's work would not need to be continued. I'd like to quote a storyteller, huh? paritaprevir Agund by Jónasson, on the minority side; he correctly put it, very vivid, in that it was about the construction work, not the architectural items. In fact, I feel that with the opinion of the greater part, because this job continues in the Ministry. If you speak of outsiders, the Ministry is required to consult with the State Reconsistencies and U.S. Marshals on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u73	A respectable president. We're here discussing the Management Board called or a bill for changing the law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. First, I'd like to thank my members at the Board of Directors and Control Committee for the job to handle the case between the discussions and the members of the Committee's committees for their presentation here at the meeting as soon as I must say that it was unwise for the greater part to settle this matter from the Committee to this point in the chamber to 2nd. ... becauseit's my way of saying it's not relevant in 2nd. in this spring council for many things. The Constitution bill is what is called in the measured language of the fishing room, and may be called one of the greatest failures of this terms, at least in the administration, and, however, are few examples from the government to mention in this regard. And when for that reason, because it is the offspring of that evil case, I think that the best for everything and for everyone is left to the matter because its origin is simply bad. It comes from an all-night political background, I guess it's not the highest. Minister of Sigurður Jóhannsson Ingi, most likely. The prime minister of the case, Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, who has had some prerogative in order to use the counterargument of the procedure for this expedition, which was so disastrously successful that the minister of the case had to be chewed and to apologize for it and actually to withdraw his original decision. Therefore, it is entirely correct for members of the board to comment on the debate that the bill is highly colored by the fishing business so that it ends its origin and that it is not a reason to overlook the review or to look at the matter itself and to try to ignore the fundamental factors, but it is, on the contrary, a major reason why the matter should not go further at this council because the rest of the matter and its origins are all stained. The government's will is to make some changes in the Constitution, but it's supposed to have its origin in something other than the bad decision that has now been taken from transporting the Fish Room with a man and a mouse in Akureyri. To this end it was said that although it is not a single example for a sitting government, it is one of the more memorable examples of a case in which it was so unopposed that it would harm everything and anyone close to it in one way or another, prime minister, of course, and certainly not least the one assigned to it. Secretary Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. I believe that there are material to review the communications between the agent and the Ministry and the Minister and the information given to the Minister on those topics, and therefore there was no opportunity for it to be handled by a board of administration and monitoring committee. If the case should come to the 3rd. it would require a discussion between the 2nd and 3rd. Because it is of utmost importance for the council to consider carefully the way the Minister and the Ministry informed an agent because the agent is, of course, in the role of the council to follow the Commission and the importance of the council making rich requirements for the minister and the Ministry for the information administration there; of course, the minister apologized for the way the case was being handled and brought ashore with it all, not only to him and the prime minister, but, of course, to the staff of the fish firm. I cried out to all the people in the country how it was done to the people who work under the influence and cunning of the world, I'd like to say, a respectable president who was in vain. Certainly it was not for the purpose of the community that they claimed to be helping, for the discussion was certainly not a wish for people living in Akureyri, including the people who lived in Akureyri. which followed the minister's attempt to do something better by going to pay men to leave. It was a debate that I think many Akureyris have hurt, natural, and have certainly not made the impression of the language of the Akureyris, all well deserved in a public discussion of any kind of benefit. This is as much as it will be seen that all those who in one way or another have been affected by the situation because it was so thought badly and so badly done as best can be seen by the fact that the government has been involved in this matter - of course, it is not possible to draw a feather over the fact that the Independence Party is completely responsible in the case. This is a administrative bill, and it is adopted by members of the Independence Party in Iceland's Government for contributing as such at the Allied Council of Iceland, and it is adopted by the Congress of the Independence Party and this mission to staff of the Fish Institute is by the members of the Independence Party. No member of the Independence Party has ever heard me here today make it clear that they were opposed to the matter in their council at that time. But if that was the case, it would be good to get it out here during the discussion. It is best to see how wrong the case was that after the government was treated like this to the staff of Fishhouses, to the Akureyri town, to the management department, to all the right ways of the case, there is an excellent solution that is now available and that everyone can agree and have been better saved at the beginning and saved to many people and many family members, the agency involved in causing significant damage beyond all the time spent and energy abuse that the debate on this matter has caused and created. It is possible for all of us to assume that the headquarters of this facility can be elsewhere than in Reykjavík if not accompanied by an forced transport to the staff of the Fish Room. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why those who have observed the activities of the Fish Service over the years were not the least surprised. We know this in a number of ways, however, that the Fish Office should be an example to other government institutions to show how it has established many branch facilities throughout the country and has contributed to the creating of jobs at home in the districts and throughout the country. Hence, it is quite unusual that an institution that had done as well in that assignment should then be taken in this way and tried to force those who work here and live to either give up the work they have dedicated to and educate themselves or move with their entire family from one side to another. Of course, it was a series of events that everyone might feel especially hurt because the Fishing Room had such a fine way of living all over the country, working all over the country. We in the United States have had a rich understanding of the view that it is important for people living in places other than Reykjavík and outside the capital area, in East, northern, and Western lands to be able to serve in the same way. the work of knowledge within the administration, of the Council of Government and of various government institutions. We set up a career policy without a location that was so called, i.e. that the government should arrange for the work itself not to be confined to Reykjavík or the capital area but to be carried out even if people live elsewhere. I think that in modern technology it is the course of evolution and something the state is supposed to be in the lead to allow people to work in institutions where they live and thus to distribute public jobs in the country, but that is not supposed to force people to move to forced transport from one corner of the country to another, whether from Reykjavík to Akureyri or from Akureyri to Reykjavík, because there is nothing to do with the community that is being moved into the business. It is simply this method of making people and families choose between moving and no longer working on what they may have educated themselves, has devoted themselves for a shorter or longer time, and over many and their own mind and heart, there is such a tremendous advantage that human beings have allowed themselves to take place in this way, especially when there are other and much better solutions at this time, such as those that are present and are less likely to work without places, which I think we can do much further. There is relatively little that prevents people from doing so many jobs that they may be able to care for them even if they are not present in the office in Reykjavík. They communicate, they have graphics, they have computers, and all such items to do such jobs from places other than headquarters itself. Another thing, of course, that may be a terrible thing to observe in this case, is perhaps just like the performance shown here at the Environment and Transport Committee yesterday by the chairman of the Committee that held one man's battles in the country, not to achieve the case he was performing, since everyone knows that the matter will not be achieved here but in some way in order to produce in the country that is the capital area, or that people in the capital area could somehow be exposed to the national settlement and that it is contrary to the national interests of the country, and would continually seek opportunities to see those living outside the capital area, to live in their survival, or possibility to be citizens in the most modern society. This expedition, one of these war-traps, said that there was a tour of the world's headquarters in the country and that there were the bad smokers who were against it, that is exactly the same area burned. Of course, all of us in our hearts know that things are not so done in Iceland that people who live in the capital area and in the capital, people are most likely to be disloyal to people in the country. It's a relatively small country and a small community, and we know it here from one beach to another, we're related, we come from here and from the country, and basically people in the country want the capital. That is why it is particularly insignificant when such political opportunism, such as one, is seen in the march of the highest order. The prime minister is able to try to create conflicts, create conflicts where there is no conflict, damage the success of such activities as the operations of a fishing home that has worked equally in the capital area, and out of the country for some kind of conflict between the country's settlements and its capitals, in order to create conflict and evil between them. The last thing we Iceland need is the increase in our debates or the increase in the number of enemy celebrations in our own ranks, the least of which is as useful and as trivial things, such as the fanciful notion that people will be organized in Iceland depending on whether they live in the capital area or in the country area and are somehow against those living in the other area. It knows all of those who live here and know this community that it is not a reality, although it is a simple attempt to strike political cones in the airports, or transport of states, or other such preconceived conflicts to make it appear that it is in some peculiar profit. Third, because there is no reason for this matter to be decommissioned at this spring council, there is nothing better than the fishing business that, unfortunately, we are not there, this young republic, that governments's advisers are trusted to be able to transfer parts of the country in a decent way. Indeed, the fishing business is a recent proof that they cannot be trusted with that authority, and the General is not supposed to let it go, so this discussion is not to be concluded and to accept this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u74	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A speaker of Helgi Hjörvar before the talk and would like to use my previous answer to have a word with Helga Hjörvar about Article 1. The bill that says, by permission of the President: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. This has often been called the fishing room, perhaps a major problem. A speaker. I'd like to put this in context to the fact that now there is another bill before the General Assembly that has the right not to cancel the law-secures laws and bring it to minister to determine its location. When I answer my questions, you ask me. The members of the board of directors on this law whether this is not likely to contribute to concern over ill - founded decision decisions and even some sort of ballot, they have suggested that it still applies to government law as the Supreme Court. Ministers need to follow. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he counts in the light of the fishing room, I'm going to tell him, that we can count on it, and if we have any precedent we can hang on to the fact that these compromises are just good enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u75	A respectable president. That's right. The principal subject of this bill was Senator 1.g. that, known as a fishing lab, is a law. In my previous answer, however, I would like to mention that there are a number of passengers, so to speak, a number of other principles that must be considered well during the discussion, and I will make my subsequent talks about the bill. But as to the government law, they are protected, indeed, for the citizens of the country and for the management staff and its institutions. They make rich government demands, but I think that experience will show us that it is important for the General to say so too. We were discussing yesterday on 5.3% of the market resources for structural action, coastal fishing, and other such. This program included a bill in the last winter, where it was assumed that the minister could only decide for himself. The result of this work was that a professional health committee changed that the Minister was not given the right to the decision, that he was given the legal authority, and that he made a pact proposal to the council, which is certainly less treatment than a law degree, as this is, but it requires two discussions and discussions on a committee and has some equipment and research. That's exactly how to prepare for a transfer to government institutions. They need to be handled and equipped. For example, you might think that such sources are at the same time brought up by a concierge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for the answer. I'd like to talk to him later about Article 10. which is a law that may not have been very much discussed here today, but it is about a change in the rights and duties of the employees of the state, which says in the bill, by permission of the President: It is considered, without the publication of a job vacancy for an application, to decide that an employee who is hired untimely to transfer for a given time or who is permanent between governments would be subject to the approval of the relevant director for the transfer and the employee himself. In a member of the committee's list, I'm sure it's my share of what I'm talking about. The management and monitoring committee reports that the evacuation of documents for the transport of workers is expected to reduce the transparency of decision making and the memory part points out that transparency is the basis for the public's ability to provide adequate control. Now there have been many discussions of the subject of payment, so I mention the positive effects of an example, helping with women's rights struggles, and sitting at the same level as men in the community. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because he has a seat at rest. The management and monitoring committee whether this law, which may lead to less transparency, has been discussed in the Committee and whether it might have any impact on the status of women and whether it has any concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u77	A respectable president. It's safe to tell what. The senator's comment on matters asked by the senator was insignificant in the committee, and I think that the points that the senator has on this subject are worthy of all attention and then 2nd. End by continuing the matter during the council, you would find it very useful to recall it to the Committee between 2 and 3. and there discuss these and other things I mentioned in my speech and subject to the minister's dealings with an agent and other such factors. One of the most important factors is transparency. A senator, of course, mentioned, but no less in a small society such as ours, where there is considerable exposure and government maintenance, whether to the executive or to the council, may be restricted by rules but may result in a large degree of transparency and the need to do things openly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u78	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the speech, she was good. In his speech, which came up last year, he made the most of the fishing business. I can only agree with him that it was like a wet barrel in the face to read in the news that the Fish Room should be moved north of Akureyri and without anyone, either a council or an employee, not even the director. I heard stories that he had heard the news about soccer in the Western Islands that he was moving the agency he was leading north of Akureyri and showing what kind of work was under control. In answer to this, I mentioned in the Generals' study that one of the very bad things in Iceland's administration was the great Minister's and it could be read in the hearing of ministers. It was also noted that the great Ministry of Ministership would increase the likelihood of these arbitrary decisions without consulting with any man who would appear and especially with those involved. There is no professional approach. Is the senator in agreement with me on this bill, and especially 1. g., is it really possible to increase the arbitrary decision of a minister, since it has also been found that the Council of the Management Board of Iceland in 2011 aimed at reducing this Ministership?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u79	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. Of course, a senator's subject to the bill is increasing the authority of the Ministers. Similarly, it is true that the senator's primary study report was that we should go in the opposite direction, i.e. to limit the authority of the Ministers and to follow them more closely from the council. Of course, this tool, the ability to threaten to transfer organizations or simply have authority, even though it is not said at all, can have the power to increase the Ministry. We have mainly limited ministers in our history by having relatively strong independent institutions, such as Fish Office and other things, but rather a weak Ministry Department, and there is a measure of concern over recent years when we have been promoting the Ministry and men have been increasingly trying to get institutions under the Ministry or to strengthen the ability of the advisers to cooperate with the institutions and by other means. There is also reason to consider the terms of the bill involved in the transfer of workers, for as soon as it can be important to have flexibility for employees to go between positions, it is of course important that there will also be no Ministers to starve employees for obedience or to use forced transport without moving their institutions but by human transfers between projects. Special care must be taken to ensure that this will not be some kind of government of the Ministers over government officials who are to be careful with the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u80	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his answer. I think that in principle we agree on how we want this, and in a sense, we agree that this is not the way it should be done, giving counselers the authority to transfer organizations without consulting anyone, although it is certainly a law they must follow. This issue in the last summer shows what can be done exactly when it comes to ministers, and it tells us that the role of the Generals needs to be expanded and that it reduces the Ministry. This may have been the main outcome and the lesson we learned from the General's study report. Then there is one question for you, and that is for consultation. Although it comes out of line with the question, it is not always done, and it became evident in recent years. There was no consultation. These are 70 employees who are being notified that they are to be taken north of Akureyri. And what's an institution? Is she just a table and chair? No, it is also human beings and knowledge, that is an enormous knowledge that lies behind the Fishing Room, and it is setting up an institution completely without any professional preparation. There are children behind this too. It's not often spoken of. There are natural children behind people who work for institutions. They are flesh - and - blood people we need to consider. It wasn't done. It was amazing, and something you really don't want to see. Of course, we're supposed to set up fences that stop this happening. As for the code of ethics, I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council how he feels that the prime minister or the Ministry of Presidents has the basis for setting standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u81	A respectable president. I think it will be better to believe that non - Prime Ministers have a moral role in the administration. But many things are true. Senator, including the discussion should be agreed. Of course, it is amazing to observe a government that repeatedly presents matters without consultation and, as it takes over the horns and sets off and always runs on the same wall and reaches most of its affairs because of the way it acts. But this debate over the location of the institutions is another strand a little old-fashioned, a little out - of - date, and that's why I brought up our policy in the Community on jobs without a location, because where are government agencies located today? I think Pirats would say they were located on the Internet. Of course, people go to more and more places for their services, information, forms, applications, queries, and what is now needed for public institutions. The changes make it necessary for the office, tables, chairs, and people to be all in one place and all in Reykjavík. People are supposed to be able to do those jobs simply because they live, but I think we should avoid them, like the warm fire, to transport people for their hard work. It is something to be part of, not the previous century, but the dark Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u82	A respectable president. The following issue is the same as the case that we discussed much during our last term, in May 2011. I mentioned only what was in that discussion, especially points from speeches. paritaprevir now the chief, Sigmunds of the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson. The prime minister, who makes this case, has not produced much of the arguments he had in the case four years ago. to make decisions on the same important matter. In 1st. This bill, as discussed here, is expected to be on 2. g. There's a new sentence that goes on, by permission of the President: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. If this law of the bill becomes a law, a minister can decide where agencies under his office would settle down and deliver it if he would not have to make the case and argue for such a decision for the attorney for the discussion and consent. The bill suggests, among other things, that this was in the first law on the Council of Government, i.e. Following their change in 1999, after the Supreme Court decided that a minister's decision to transfer the soil data to Aquilin had not been legally supported. However, sources to such decisions for a minister failed when the current law was given in 2011 without realizing that it was the intent of the Lawgiver. This must be the question of whether it is natural and desirable to consider the public interest, the transparency of discussions and the democratic maintenance of the legislation of the legislative authority against the executive authority, i.e. Minister, that he is authorized to make such a decision without having to carry it in any way by a legal bill or by a concierge proposal under the Lawgiver, and then back it up to him and thus to the public and gain approval for the decision. In this regard, it seems that there is little question about whether such a warrant was once a temporary law. The subject is to discuss and decide how to manage this for the future in terms of public interest and democratic implementation. Of course, there are arguments that can be made with this principle of the bill that I have made here at the beginning of my talk. First, to cope with the needs and circumstances that sometimes change rapidly, the system of government needs to have space in this respect. Of course, it is difficult and time - consuming to sue for the Generals. It may take a long time for a decision to be made and may result in a later or more time - consuming response to my activity and excessive cost. Second, there is a risk that other viewpoints, but to do most of their business, which must be the best results of their activities in terms of minimal costs and objectives, will have an excessive and undesirable effect if the matter is discussed and decided for the Council. All kinds of pressure groups that protect special interests and, at times, narrowly, can begin to apply and be abnormal in the management and decision making. Third, it may be reasonable for a European Commission to decide to move institutions to land without having to agree with the General Assembly at any time, as has often been decided to place institutions in the capital area without any legal legislation on it in each case or there has been a special discussion in a synonym or with a bill at a council meeting. Many institutions have been established in the capital area without specifically discussing their location in a chamber. In this case, the matter can be summed up and asked: Why should decisions regarding locations other than those in Reykjavík need to be made for a special discussion at the council? Finally, the law's handling of this matter is less important than it might be expected of the discussion on these matters today, since some of the institutions can set up branch offices here and where certain aspects of the operation can be carried out without having to submit it to the legislatator and even the local Ministry. It can be reasoned that they need that volume and flexibility in order to carry out their assigned tasks properly. It can also be said that it is not realistic to have legal authority to determine such matters at a time. They can, in effect, take much of their activity to shore, although the headquarters remain in the same location without the intervention of the General. These may be the key arguments that can be considered and used to support this arrangement, which allows Ministers to move one - sided, based on their own decision, their institutions into the country. However, there are a number of reasons against the above laws of the bill. I want to go over them. That's because in this relationship, there's even a difference. Questions such as this: Are not such decisions of the nature and often the consequences of public interest, economic interests and the success of the users of institutions that it is very natural and desirable to be assured that the members of the minister need to explain their viewpoints and reasons for them, short and long - term costs, and that they are subject to careful and open talks in which members of the public authority have the option to clarify their viewpoints and attitudes and to give public opportunity to observe the discussion and to have an informed opinion? Second, are not such issues so important in the context of many interests and often debates that it must be natural and desirable for them to be discussed according to the ways of the Council, through discussions at council, and after reviews made by members of a Senate committee, presence, and reviews of stakeholders? And is it not democratic and natural to view democratic responsibility and rationality that the common people can know what individual senators have to do with such matters and thus be able to evaluate whether they exercise their authority in a proper way to support them in elections? Is it not necessary for politicians to hold political responsibility for such decisions? ' Third, it is not necessary to maintain the law on the part of the legislator by institutions who are expected to handle specific laws, which will not be carried out by advisers, with the consequences of their activities and effectiveness over long and short periods of time, unless a minister has made clear to members of the Parliament for reasons on how the decision has been prepared by professional assessment, and what would the result be expected of the transfer of the Agency's activities and the results it will have and its long - term financial effects? Fourth: Must it not be accepted and ruled by the laws and regulations that apply, among other things, by the political interests of the minister or of the party for which he serves as a member of the council, could influence such a decision and therefore outweigh public interests, and should the procedure and procedures be carried out so that it be maintained by the other members of the council who have the interests of the public in accordance with its authority? It must be noted, then, that decision regarding location and transport does not occur frequently. Therefore, it cannot be seen that there is a great administrative need for a minister to decide this rapidly and without any delay resulting from the political treatment of such cases. Such decisions are rare and are to be avoided because of the great conflict that comes with them for their work. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that they are very well thought - out and reasoned with respect to the interests of the entire country and for a shorter and longer period of time. It must then be ensured that the implementation of such decisions is very well prepared and that the procedure takes the time necessary to minimise harmful effects on the function. It is important to look to the knowledge and experience of the staff and how it will be best kept within the organisation as shown in this discussion that an institution is not a chair and a table and computers and a building but a special knowledge of the staff on the Agency's activities and the so-called establishment memory that resides in the staff. If that knowledge is lost and the memory is greatly lost, it is not the transfer of an institution but the establishment of a new institution that needs to be built from the foundation, including the necessary knowledge needed to do the work well. This can be done over a period of time, but there is a very serious risk that much experience and stock memory will be lost altogether. If a decision to transport the Agency is poorly prepared, it is not taken into account that this type of action requires good time and careful preparation, including to make it more likely that workers will move with the Agency and their knowledge will not be lost. In such cases, it is reasonable to take into account the interests of employees of local organisations that it is unfair to be directly or indirectly disbarred from their employment and a small advance if they do not want to move their homes and family to where a minister would like to transfer an institution. There are very great interests at stake for staff who have even worked for a long time in an institution and specialized, and even educated themselves in order to be able to do their job well but not have access to other jobs in that special field. This, however, will not only affect the interest of the staff but also influence the state's competitive position on qualified and well - educated personnel, as it will be less likely to reach out for jobs if there is much insecurity on these issues. This is also important because government agencies are not usually able to compete with the private sector in terms of pay offered by employees. It may be asked: Is it not the fishing business and how a minister has kept it very good and important a reminder of the need for the general staff to maintain such decisions? Here I have considered basic evidence, and against the regulations of the bill that seem to be: the establishment of an institution under which he is being heard, unless it is otherwise recommended in the law. I feel that the evidence against this law is much more than just a few others. I don't think it's an unconvinced conclusion that such a decision for a minister is not to be taken alone. There are certain indicators that recommend the mobility of workers within the administrative capacity. There is an increase in practicality and better use; there is flexibility and adaptability to changing circumstances and needs. People can be moved so that each person's interest, knowledge, and experience can be used as fully as possible to give people the opportunity to carry out new assignments and to develop into a job. A precautionary device can be built for employees who insist that it needs its approval for transport, but it is a question of how safe it will provide. Clearly, it can be very difficult for subordinates to resist pressure from government officials, and right or wrong may fear malice and may even cause them to regresses to accept transport. In contrast to the mobility of workers within the management board, it is possible that they will be disfellowshipped from an important principle that public jobs should be advertised and that this will result in loss of transparency in decision-making on such matters and the management of governments to make decisions of this kind only on the basis of the individual's qualifications. Advertising and transparency are essential for organisations such as the Allegorium agent and according to court case experiences, to be monitored for equality and not to influence corruption or other indiscriminate views on such decision making. The maintenance is very important, as so many experiences prove. Hence, anything that separates from the advertising of public jobs and the transparency and monitoring that it provides should be taken into consideration. Scholars have noted that corruption in public employment is a problem in Icelandic society. The general public also feels that way. So we must be careful not to do so without supervision. Thus, it can not only lead to more corruption that is before us but also weaken confidence in the government. As part of the Committee considered, this feature of the bill, the mobility of workers in the administrative sector, has not been adequately contacted by the staff. If this is true, then there is a great deal of urgency for the planning of the situation, as it is obvious that there is a matter of great interest here and that it is highly unnatural not to be consulted with a representative of the management board. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to review the issues of morality, but in terms of the bill's directives, I have the moral standards for the Ministry to Presidents. It says, by permission of the president: It's a 25th par. The legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland shall operate on moral standards for the administrations. The bill suggests that she be laid down, but the Ministry of Presidency will accept her assignment. The minority of these doubts suggests that to the Committee, there is limited logical support in the bill and that it is not clear what was intended for the change. So the minority feels that this aspect of the matter needs to be considered in a much better way. This is a project of great importance and importance that it is not only well and professional but also that this work has confidence and is well and visiblely protected from unnatural political intervention. This is not only about promoting good and uncontaminated practices in the local administration but also about to stand in such a way that the public can be confident that this is done. Thus, the two objectives are careful and uncontaminated administrative practices and public trust in the administration of the government. The change suggested in the bill to move projects from a special cohesion committee prevents the trust that is so important to create. There are certain questions that arise regarding the planned transport of the Fish Office, although the government has declared that it will not be attacked at least This year. The questions are: How have preparations and assessments of the consequences of the move been made and the results of the move have been made for a shorter and longer time? How have representatives of the stakeholders and institutions with special interests been agreed to care for the services provided by the Fishing Room and interacting with them? This refers to an organization made up, fish work, sailors, Marine Research Institute, Food Institute, Landland Security. How have the more recent and more long - term economic effects of moving have been evaluated? How has the movement impacted on this service on the results of the activities and costs of those who especially need to take advantage of and communicate with the Agency? There are other things that I would like to avoid, but I'll be able to do this in my speech on this subject. I can't get over all this stuff. I just want to use the last one and a half minutes of my speech to give a talk. In May 2011, the prime minister he moved as a humble member of the body of directors. There he is criticizing changes in his view that involve the exercise of great authority in the hands of prime minister. There he says in that discussion, with permission from the president: ▪ In fact, I have to be aware that in some cases this may be all right. Some governments could handle this power very well, and even if the government were good enough, it would promote efficiency rather than the other because they would not have to spend as much time listening to, what to say, wrong views. However, we cannot design a system that works out that the ruler always has the right views, so there is no need to listen to the wrong things. We do not know whether a ruler has wrong views or rights, let alone in the future. As a result, it is very important that the system is designed to select but also that it should be specifically considered to be the position of the legislator, the elected representative of the Commission. At another point in this discussion, a respectable president, says the highest. First, Prime Minister Compact: ▪ If at any point we should seek counsel and make extensive peace, it must be on such issues as this in terms of how our government system is built up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u83	A respectable president. I want to thank you. At the end of the hall, a senator for the house reading. I forgot how crazy it was, but it's fine to remember. You wonder if it's the highest. The prime minister does not believe that it is now time for the government to have good enough, and it has the right opinion, not the wrong view. It must be. You must conclude that the bill rests on the very top of the bill. Prime Minister, then a leader in the opposition. I don't want to ask you what kind of joke I want. A senator. I've been wondering about the source of this case. It is not as if this particular case was raised from nothing. Rather, it is much more likely to result from a political need to create legal equipment for some sort of an attack or some sort of malfunction, i.e. The play with Fish Room. I can't deny that in the works of this government, I'll stand back more and more often that there will be some sort of posttext. We know some text messages that are being given strength, etc. There are unprofessional practices and occasional attacks that lead to a wall walking and realizing that they have to do it better and even professional, etc., but this is obviously not a good basis for building legislation. But that's what seems to have happened there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on what circumstances might lead to a quick response to an organization that would need to be shifted from place to place, which could not bear the wait of the council's review.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u84	Mr. President. I think that's a good question. I can't imagine anything else than some sort of disaster that could lead to such a decision being made. We know it's the highest. The prime minister wants to control things, wants to make certain choices, specific cultural strengths, and nothing too complicated in their distribution, despite the fact that public funds are involved. He wants to be able to move the jurisdictional boundaries of the police court, protect certain settlements without any consideration. In this case, he wants to be able to move to one side and one side of the organizations. Of course we do, because we're interested in popular politics and news, that the decision is made in a moment, made in a car, in a radio interview. That's the way it works. Prime Minister that he makes all such decisions, and he has a group of people around him who, along with his view, believe that he should control all kinds of things and that he is the best he can do for them, because he is a good ruler, with good opinion and not wrong. These people take his decisions into their arms and try to make the best of them, such as the highest. In this case, a marine dignitary and agricultural minister will. He takes the matter in his arms and runs it on his ass and ends with having to apologize to humans and tells the public that he needs to learn from his mistakes like everyone else. But this is mainly a fuck-up he grabs from the highest. Prime Minister. It is a matter of the greater theological nature of this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u85	A respectable president. It is just such thoughts that come to a person these days, however long this can be done, the condition that remains. This situation is certainly not only present in the councils but also in the whole community and the media and their leaders show the natural fact that the party is in no position to be in charge and is not in control, it is only reality. I'd like to ask about these situations that surface in politics. Prime Minister, i.e. Whether it pertains to historical development, these decisions, or other, prime minister who has just put his words at ease, the great need to bring power to him. A senator mentioned earlier, to speak seriously and in a debate about rights and wrong views - about right and wrong views - whether it is advisable to do so in view of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, the same one who gave the talk on right opinions and wrongs, put everything aside for moral standards. Is this beneficial, considering a subject based on popular moral ideas, when it comes to the view that opinions may be wrong and right, in some sense bad and good? I want to pray. A senator to shed his thoughts on that question. The move team has gone to great lengths against the capital area and against the city of Reykjavík and has acted as if it were designated in politics, on the one hand, the capital area, or the urban region, and on the other hand, in the country, and in case. þm. Höskuldur, Þór of Thor, who was taken out of the committee yesterday to protect Reykjavík's airport, is an article that was hurt by them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to pray. In this context, a member of the body of elders wondered about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u86	Mr. President. I'm going to give another witness as the highest. In May 2011, the prime minister moved: I think we need to take a look at the situation from the top, put it aside, and work on changing Iceland's Council of Peace and Compatibility, try to achieve the vastest solidarity, and that the government shows that it is serious with all these statements that so far have proved to be meaningless. She now has the opportunity to show that someone serious is behind them when they say that they want to cooperate. If not in this matter, when? With new legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, we should set a good example, but we should not agree to a failed bill to promote the European Commission at the cost of the legislature. On the contrary, to set a good example by a well - worked bill that strengthens democracy and promotes the position of the Lawgiver at the expense of the European Commission. Of course, how hypocritical it is to bring a bad bill into the council after saying this four years ago and expect it to be approved at the council! There is an example that shows that a person who speaks this way does not act in this way to oversee moral standards. It's right in front of us. As far as right and wrong views were concerned, I thought there was nothing like that, there were just different opinions, and we were here on the scene, which is designed to lead us to some conclusion by majority talk. However, a ruler who views him as having sound opinions and sound opinions and others as having wrong views is a dangerous ruler because he feels he can do anything in behalf of his right and good opinions. Hence, this matter is just as dangerous as it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u87	V.E.G. President. In a sense, I feel that I am here on the move of two prime cables, one of the bill that allows for ministers to move institutions to the country as much as I like, on the other hand, the idea of forming a formal partnership on the molding of ethical principles, in setting up representatives of labor movements, executives, and outsiders, e.g. from the university environment. However, after listening to a talk or two. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, I think there's a very clear connection between that. He plays together in his own language well, contrasting the importance of mobility, that people can move in so that their talents are useful in the best way and the most transparent and commercial functions. These are the two viewpoints weighing. But just because these borders are blurred, it is important to have steady work on the shape of ethical rules that deal with vague factors like these. So my question is what? A senator's point is: Do we not agree that there is a very clear connection?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u88	A respectable president. Here earlier today, I spent some time on the Generals new web, which is designed to make it very easy to review the old councils of Congress and to say that the Internet will survive in that environment. But I've got a few very effective points from the top of the speeches. Prime Minister, including This one, with the permission of the President: It is an old-fashioned sentence to play cards and absolute power to corrupt completely. So this bill is so much to worry about, to be honest with him, he was talking about, of course, the number one bill. The prime minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir - ◯ Because when power is put together in one place, it is not designed to bring forth the good in the person but rather to encourage the negative. This, of course, is a question of what we are trying to fight, the compression of power and corruption. It's just my opinion, and I think there's a public opinion that we're just out of the time when decisions are made by one person. That's why there's 26. the constitution of the child of its day, out - of - date. The decision of the president to send a case to a national fee or not, based entirely on intention, is past, and we are not to return to that reality. We are to base our decisions on the best information available, and we should base our decisions so that it is transparent, that we can see why a decision has been made, why a particular employee has been hired, what qualifications have been made, etc., so that there is trust in the system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u89	V.E.G. President. I agree with this main point that it is important to ensure transparency in the administration. Nevertheless, we must often have a vague framework between institutions that may be active individuals wishing to be transferred to work, it is clear that they will be more useful to other projects, possibly within the same office modules, etc. There's some dark borders out there. But that is why it is important to work constantly on the standards to guide such decisions. I noted in my speech yesterday that in the Committee that has such work in the current law, representatives from the unions, from the labor movement, from officials, from executives, are also looking for external opinions and from the University of Iceland. I think it's a very good mixture. I'm not sure that there are clear laws on how to proceed, but that is why such discussions are needed in all cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u90	A respectable president. I think me and what. A senator would agree completely on this subject. It is interesting to look at the reviews of unions on this bill. The BHM, BSRB, the Favour of Directorates, the Contestant and the SFR ◯ Public Service Group and Fish Office staff describe, e.g. The opinion that the decision to transfer the institutions is natural before the Council for discussion and decision making. The reasons for such an attitude are only different, but mostly the ones I used to use in my speech. The Governing Body also gives the argument that it is important to defend national independence and, in particular, to take a look at it in this regard. The newsman's review then emphasizes the need for such matters, but it does not take any position to determine whether any of these decisions should be made by the Council. Clearly, these reviews provide different emphasis on different viewpoints. Of course, unions and organizations view the matter according to their partner's interests and want to ensure that their security and rights are the best. This, of course, is normal. It places great emphasis on professional and careful management in preparing and making such decisions, and, of course, very few feel that it is natural and democratic that the General Assembly deals with such issues. I have yet to consider other aspects of this matter in my later talks. This is vital and should be looked to many factors. It's not simple, there's evidence on and off, but I think that some kind of process that involves as much consultation as possible must be the natural conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u91	Mr. President. Of course, there has been a undeniably planned discussion on this matter that has to do with this unfortunately planned transfer of Fishing House to Akureyri, unfortunate in understanding of how the situation was going to take place, or how it began. I suppose it would be best to get involved in this matter before considering the other aspects of the bill. It should be noted that the person mentioned here does not necessarily feel that there is a need to be legally bound in every case where government activity or institutions reside. Of course, it is possible and is, in some places, as it has long been said or was, that a minister might have authority to determine the location unless the law ordered otherwise. The other is clearly seen in the light of experience, including this case and not just because some type of law frame has to be seen to prevent an accident in these substances, even if it does not necessarily include the own location in understanding of the central points of a certain organisation or operating system. In view of the legal requirements outlined by the Supreme Court, that because of the manner in which the Constitution is written, the Council in Reykjavík will actually be replaced by institutions and activities under the council, unless otherwise indicated. Of course, there is a need to find a way in this regard. Of course, at an old age, I do not intend to become a spokesman. On the contrary, I advocate that it is a natural view to distribute public activity across the country and that activities that are appropriate to be located in such areas as those that are linked to the sectors that may have their focus on the country. It is a natural view that this is kept in mind when talking about the distribution of public activity, for all of our cities with our citizens are paying taxes wherever we live in the country and often feel that they are getting them back to the north of Gímney or east of the Bakkafir, they do not cremate public service in the capital area much tones. Hence, it is normal to be able to distribute this activity whenever possible. But action is needed. The kind of event that began with the ostentatious announcement that now the Fishing Room would be taken in one piece by skin and hair and moved north to Akureyri was not good. Sadly, it does not work with the fact that the distribution of public activities around the country at such times, in the absence of attention to the interests of employees, in the absence of professional views, and in the management of knowledge based on institutions, and in the absence of proper support for the fact that this is done. This has to do with the fatal error of thinking of government agencies as if they were a box that could be picked up by hand or hoisted up with the taps and placed on a truck and moved to a new location. That's not the way it is. Official institutions are like most other businesses, and most of the other operations are primarily people. The rest are bandages, houses and equipment. That's where the mistake is. I believe that the Fishing Room can be and, if it becomes possible, finely located in Akureyri, and that's a good reason that her main activity will be there, i.e. Some kind of headquarters. Fortunately, one of the institutions of the situation is the nature of the situation, which has spread activity all over the country and, of course, natural that some significant part of it is also on the southwest corner, since this is an arrangement and these are related to this matter. Where, then, did they get out of the way in this matter? Yes, simply because it wasn't the right formula. What was to be said and prepared and done carefully, if they wanted to implement this political policy, was to come and say, and, of course, introduce it to employees, etc.: Now is or is being shaped by the political policy toward the focus of the Fishing Office in the sense of its headquarters moving in steps to her base at Akureyri, and at some particular time, her headquarters would be there in the sense of a clear manager. This is how we're going to do it, and this is how we're gonna do it with careful planning, and nobody's gonna get dumped, and nobody's gonna have to move if it's not convenient for him. We're going to draw these changes with staff picks and newborns in the years to come, and we're going to make this organized and intelligent, no problem. I don't think any wave would have survived, and this could have even gone faster than many expected, for it is, of course, likely to be so that many feel that it is good for them to have their place at the headquarters where it will be active. And if she's well lived there, she's in a good environment, as she definitely will be in Akureyri, I don't worry that in such a powerful place, it wouldn't be easy for them to live. But those who choose and are for family reasons or for other reasons confined to her present territory in Hafnarfjörður or capital area should be able to continue there, and no problem should be organized so that the workers will be fully useful to them and enjoy themselves. There are many examples in large rural institutions that work around the country, and I plan to mention the national tax management office in nine small tax offices and headquarters in Reykjavík until a few years ago when the country became a single tax system, no one quits, but jobs have since increased in the country because a conscious policy was taken to use the benefits of a stable labour market and a good environment in Sigleurdir or Akureyri to bring up a number of services, such as the tax service. This is exactly how it can be done and would have been better done in this case. People have been in a lot of trouble with this, that's sad. A man noted how this happened to the employees, and I can be sure that the Akureyris did not enjoy it but were drawn into this discussion with no blame for the case. But, of course, and understandable, they do not intend to change their view of being looked to. Arrays in the distribution of public activity throughout the country. Especially in large institutions, or considerable numbers of people, where professional knowledge, expertise, education, university education, etc., we know that there is a great advantage in being in that large labour market such as Akureyri, the Islandlands and the Central Netherlands. There is a community that has every opportunity to deal with this kind of strong university, second-largest and one of two separate hospitals in the country, two strong schools, and with the development of the Válavle walk, over 30 thousand linked employment and communication markets within daily applications in the Eyjafjörður area and in the western part of Germany. There can be no argument that such an institution does not have a good environment. All of this is so much different and easier when it comes to transporting new institutions, establishments, and location. Of course, it is only good to take this opportunity and be. There is much more to be careful and careful about when it comes to old and established institutions, only to the object. For example, it would be legal to have some guidelines on how the methodology should be used, that governments have relatively independent decisions about where new activity is introduced. This may be easier when it comes to the focus changes in the area of the focus of activity, or where it resides in institutions scattered across the country. However, when it comes to an institution that is relatively homogeneous, with all its functions in one place and with considerable human resources, it may have to be very specific if it is intended to be moved from its present location. The person here seems to have little experience with this, and I've managed to export the world headquarters to the country when the government's forestry moved from Reykjavík to Eglish Status in 1990. It was quite a process, and it took on chapters, but men tried to be careful. At first, they went to the Generals and obtained adequate legal permission to do so. Every employee was interviewed, some disagreed. A promising memory, a retired wooder, disagreed, but he was giving up his work, and it was a sweet time to let the transfer take place when a new deforestation director took up the job. Some of the older employees in Reykjavík did not want to move, and what was done then? Yes, there was a job station in the Western town of Forest, stones from the Assembly Hall for several years, where some of the older personnel at the Head of the Forest completed their careers and tried to make it all together as happy as possible with each of them. Newcomers were all present at Egls, and the country's main forestry district has been driven by a powerful center of forestry, and where would the government's forestry be if not in the River Valley region, where most trees are? It is also good to remember that if there are material and sound reasons, they will be able to determine the location of the institution. I set up at least one new government agency - I am speaking of an ancient age, a respectable president, when a speaker was a minister in the other century - not a large, two, three - person entity that took up the economic and economic development of agriculture that no one was planning to do so. The agricultural economist was the fine little organization, and it served well for some 15 years. I then moved one very large agency, a knowledge and rejection agency, not of course, but as a minister, of course not far off, it was here over the Kopavogs Creek, from the West Side of Reykjavík, Kópavog. It was certainly a transfer, and I don't remember any legal age at all, but it would probably have been just as illegal in this sense as the Supreme Court's judgments, such as the performance of AMDA, even though I don't know if the legal environment was exactly the same back then. It's simply a matter of careful management and carefulness, which could have been better handled. In fact, the highest. I'm telling you, I'm not saying I'm sorry, but on the other hand, it's not a good idea. He may be taking some of the blame for another man in this case, but I shall not say any more about it. Of course, it is the interests of employees that are of utmost importance and to ensure that their rights and positions and treat them decently, and that are to be kept in mind in all this matter. Second, regarding ethical or moral standards in the administration board, there have been other speakers prior to me, and I share complete doubts with a smaller section of the management and monitoring committee that appears in their committee's party on page. 2 of these agents. I don't see what's worked by putting down a co-ordination committee on moral standards, I think it's good to have someone like that. We're not talking about a major institution or a lot of ties, but about the fact that a select group of specialists in this field is available for the ministry and coordination of these materials. The Ministry of Presidency, with all due respect to it, is not necessarily the most specialized of all the materials in the country, fine academics, and others may be better equipped in those areas. However, in the Fish Room, before I forget, I believe that, of course, it must be understood, it must be finished. This uncertainty situation can no longer hang over, even though some part of it has been destroyed by the last Minister's declarations on how it will be so much of what it will be in the first place, and I was describing how it would have provided for me. However, whatever the outcome of this bill, it is still necessary to beat the bottom to the bottom. I'm just gonna stick around at 6. the bill that refers to the organization of the leading office for recruitment and to the switch to normal professional offices. However, it also states that it is permitted to set up specific operations and services, which are operating as part of the Ministry. Such operations direct a government official, in the sense a law on the rights and duties of the servants of the state, under the management of the Ministry. I think I only had where men are trying to use this text, but I'm not sure that this is enough, i.e. If, among other things, it is intended to create a possibility for highly separate units or agencies associated with the Ministry, but still independent, this is not necessarily an adequate legal instrument. In this regard, people have mentioned that such unity, or the Ministry, might be able to turn the government's ownership into financial contributions. But doesn't it have to be better prepared, about the independence of such units, and how it is related to the Ministry and Government, in fact, to the Ministry General? That's what I think I should have checked. I'm not in conflict with this thought in myself, it may well be a solution to certain matters in which people want to distinguish entirely from day - to - day administration and day - to - day management to implement certain tasks that are independent and sole in their own unity or organization. At that time, however, the legal equipment must match what is in a person's mind to achieve. Is it a arm length that fulfills what we usually talk about as an arm length? What kind of independence? A special unit of service or ministry may not be the same as the independent work unit or Ministry Department. I've mentioned this before by the code of ethics, Mr. President, and I don't think I need to question it. There are other factors in the bill that I stopped at but the norm and settled the institutions. It might include flexible planning, which I don't see as being necessarily flexible here, only a few more possibilities, if we talk about these independent units or agencies, and then increasing the mobility of employees. I do not object to being able to move to human resources, for example, between recruitment within the board of directors and even recruitments and institutions. It can be of advantage to do so, especially if there are difficult circumstances, unexpected, and a great deal of work piled into humans, as it did here after the collapse. It may be very good to be able to use expertise and human resources as effectively as possible as you can be helped, even to lend loans to staff between institutions and recruitment programs so that work can be done. Of course, there must always be careful, and in each case very carefully that there is not at the expense of employees, and there is no forced situation if such requests are made. That's what I'm worried about, even if they say it's in the beginning of a discussion, not just with the local minister and the head of the agency, but also with the employee himself. Remember, though, that if the employee wants to stay still, he may not be fully in a comfortable position to say no but will have a firm request from his minister and even the director of the agency for some other assignment. It also highlights the danger of being in such a position to bring to an employee with whom conflicts have occurred, without taking a stand for a greater responsibility or less. It may be an independent employee who has been on trial for his rights so that someone doesn't like the government or the agency. And it's not as if it didn't happen before in Iceland that they're trying to find some way to give the person some room somewhere in the corner, one in the office over themselves or something like that. And, of course, the management board is not to function that way. They must deal with such issues and solve them through professional and careful practices and must always be taken care of the maximum right of the employee in those areas. Finally, only about 2. talking about how books should communicate ministers and important news or information they get to meetings or communication, formal or informal. I'm not going to argue that the text that came in there was perfect, I'm just reminding of why it was specifically brought in, that was the results of a report from the World Council of Research. I certainly hope that by the changes suggested here, it is not intended to back something out of the fact that such communication is recorded and provided with information about it and the transparency as much as possible, but rather in the other direction. This was the little thing I wanted to say, and the little I came to, a respectable president, in this speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are a number of factors in this bill that give reasons for further discussion. I wanted to tell you two things about what happened. A senator. First, it is this transfer by personnel from organisations for recruitment and from recruitment to institutions. I think we're all at it, and we helped in the last term, that the flexibility of the staff will be increased within the Board of Directors, especially in order to make the Board of Directors attractive and people to be able to handle different tasks and be flexible. But here, it's getting much bigger. I wondered, " Can this not cause merely to replace people and to choose into the Ministry of Ministers at any given time? ' Now it may work as if I'm trying to make people more uncomfortable than just walk and happen, but it's a real danger. However, as for the transfers, I believe that we should associate with the state's institutions based on their social role, not on local politics, but on the fact that they can be located here and there. The senator gave a fine example of government development when, with a careful process, it was chosen to be a normal place, and in accordance with its role, in the main forestry region of the country. A fishing room is in many areas and such, but would it not also be reasonable for this to focus much more on employment without a location? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u93	Mr. President. I think I have, as in my talk, tried to deal with or answer this question in itself, about the so - called increased flexibility in the staff transfer, and no longer just within the board between advisers, as it were. A senator correctly reminded of being promoted during the last term, also being vertical from an institution to the Ministry or Ministry to the institution. Of course, I agree that this needs careful care to be taken to make sure that you are concerned or have some sort of abuse of such sources. You have to watch out for the employee's rights. One possible way, for example, would be to have it as a rule so that some kind of temporary scheme was to be taken, and the employee had the right to keep his old position and, in itself, could turn to it when he wanted or at some time. It may also have advantages, as I say, for the planning of the work to spread pressure, to deal with temporary work projects that need to be done in one place rather than another, in an institution or in the Ministry. With regard to the location then - yes, I strongly agree that jobs without location are included in the picture, through telecommunication opportunities, can now be done relatively independent of location. We should be able to do modern technology - I'm not talking about if Internet connections get into a good situation in the whole country - doing much more work on such projects far and wide. Hv. A senator says that this is not to be viewed as cohesion or infrastructure but primarily according to the nature of the work. Yeah, but the other part will never be completely isolated from it, that's just the way it is. In one country, the location of the public ministry, the location and location of people working and living, the city's response, etc. Iceland has had one of the greatest controversies in the Western world, so over 2/3 parts of the nation live here on one spot of land. No nation in Europe, even those who have gone through war, has experienced so much. [[The president calls.]] Hence, it is critical to look for the growth of urban disorders to at least not to the extent that the public service is overexpensively completed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u94	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers. I agree with that. A senator's viewpoint is of utmost importance. That is exactly what we need to ask ourselves: How do we approach the geographic standards? Is it an old-fashioned idea that it's only nice to rip up one institution with roots and transport it with a man and a mouse, or is it so that we want to protect the activity that is already in the area? We have much public service in many parts of the earth, which can be extended and increased. We have an example of innovation, such as in the East, where the East Bridge has arrived, which has, in fact, had to be in trouble because there had to be more financial support for that operation. It put certain activities in just one cluster. Work that is small and weak alone is supported by other activities in the same area and will also, if it is well handled properly and properly, by funding, by innovation, and perhaps by the normal development of the local activity. So I'd like to reiterate that I think it's very important that we have a foundation in mind, how we build. It will never be powerful and desirable unless there is a wide variety of services and opportunities to work. But I feel that in this, I'm just thinking about taking an organization with you and a mouse, and I've had a little bit of attitude for the rest of my life while there's a lot of other methods to get real results in more variety of jobs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u95	Mr. President. I wish I had ten minutes to answer the good questions, since this is a matter of my heart. I agree with you completely. The problem of living will never be solved by some vain thought of just taking organizations with you and a mouse, tearing them down, and throwing them into places in the land. This does not mean that humans cannot, nor should they look to the possibilities in such areas, perhaps moving to a central place of work, distributing jobs, and setting up new institutions or setting them up in a well - chosen location where it is suitable in the country. However, this is in the general structure of the public ministry and its distribution, and of course, in jobs without location and telecommunications and such. But when we go down to the smallest places - now we've been talking here about Hafnarfjörður Réturus Akureyri - what's this all about, in 400 to600 communities? It's about a man with one policeman and no one. It's about one nurse and not one nurse. It's about that kind of stuff. It is the leak of these jobs, even and entirely out of our memory, which is, in effect, the most admirable of all, and has been prominent in these difficult years, unfortunately. I think we can look to examples of many successes. For 25 years, I have watched Norway very closely for this matter, although it was 30, and for a long time I am impressed with how well they have been working, and apparently without major arguments, using the government to prevent Finnmarks and Norway's west coasts from entering. They built up Tromsø with vast government support, a powerful university, a hospital, etc. They have Norway's Testimony University of Technology, an immensely large, elegant institution that they enjoy. And they don't have the headquarters of the land guard in the capital, if I recall correctly, they're in Bodø, where Kyst Watchen has its headquarters, etc. [[The president calls.]] So there are some lessons we can learn from the wisdom that is done in other lands as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u96	A respectable president. Better yet, the guard ships are about to pay for the pier cake, for for this has been a requirement for the farm society that has hosted His Majesty's armadas at the pier's side, since they have not paid what others have to offer. It may not be too much to do. I want to ask you why. A senator, because he was well aware that living in Akureyri, as we all know, is good how he appreciates the impact this has had on the town discussion. I heard the senator mention that this was not good with the Akureyris. How did he feel that this was a reputation or a discussion of Akureyri, and especially the idea that followed was to pay a million dollars to accompany the agency? Then I would like to ask if the increased number of projects at home are not most likely and most practical to increase the number of public jobs in the home, except those without a location that we have been impressed with in the United States, simply moving the projects in the country to a greater and greater extent than we have done, and thus the work and management. [[Up front.]] Is it not practitionally spoken of as the best way to distribute the public work, making the projects most of the country's activities?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u97	Mr. President. About the first, I think I said it so that the Akureyris didn't enjoy this discussion. I'm not saying that because I've been in contact with a lot of people there, folks in town, et cetera. On the other hand, I think that after the dance, they took it very wisely and balancedly. Arguing has simply said: A fishing room is, of course, welcome to Akureyri. We will welcome her. We believe that it can be enjoyed here. Other than that, they have avoided getting involved in discussions about the negative factors of this matter and, of course, refused to have any responsibility for the way this happened to the staff and the other matters. Likewise, they are not in some fight or race against Hafnarfjörður in these matters and have clearly stated it. It's just the way it is. If the government makes that political decision, Fishing Agency is welcome to Akureyri, it will be received, and it will be well prepared. It is and will be excellently located there. I agree with that view simply because Akureyri is the most powerful town in this area, one of the most powerful seabeds in the country, with a university that is specialized in the fishing field and that teaches marine ecology, with a considerablely powerful function of various marine foundations. Of course, it is not as if it was starting from scratch. For the second, I am and have long felt that the key is that rural areas, or regions, cooperate with other projects. I am a zealous candidate for the fact that the issues of the elderly will be brought up, and they will not be protruding, in addition to the problems of the disabled, and all the closer services will be integrated in the areas and in the settlements with them, resources and responsibilities associated with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u98	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Only about what happened in 19 hundred and something, the moving of the Forest, it was also interesting in the matter of how many times, directly and indirectly, have been tried to transport them back here. I wondered if in this century we need not concentrate more on this aspect of employment without a location mentioned by the senator. Is there any way that you can secure the rights of people whom you are applying for a job more than we do today to the level of the company where you live and who want to be in the job elsewhere than the other person is? Finally: Is it not often hard to believe that having the headquarters of public institutions and particularly key institutions in the capital area is at hand with the Council? The Senator gave a recent example of being a minister of his own, reorganizing the country's national tax manager, making it an institution and increasing the telecommunications in the country and growing important jobs there, but he decided that the headquarters were in the capital area. I give myself the evidence that from here most people are attending the service, and this is where financial, financial, financial, and other parties that this key community has to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u99	Mr. President. That's right. A couple of times during those maybe 20 years, have people become nervous, or are they now 25 years? Yeah, it's 25 years. There have been occasional agitation and rumors that even now appear to bring the woodpecker back to the east of Gunnar'sholt or something, perhaps in connection with their union, but it has not yet been. Another kind of answer to a basic question is why. Senator. I believe in itself that there is another blind thing in this: Just focusing on where headquarters is. If we're talking about a large service or administration agency that has to do with national projects and to some extent carry out its work across the country, with a total of 100 to150 people working, headquarters, president and his secretary, may not be all that counts. There may be reasons why he is sitting here, especially if there is any key agency involved. For example, I haven't heard any idea of moving the Secret Bank, although he was certainly welcome to the South Germany County because people have found it to be the best way to run banks, haven't they? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] There is, of course, some evidence that the bank manager is sitting in Reykjavík. The same can be said of the head of state tax, governor of state, and such. This does not mean that the focus of the work needs to be on some level below them. It is quite possible to think that one of the biggest taxpayer's jobs is in Akureyri, good if she is not already approaching it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u100	OnTVR...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u101	Then there are other institutions that, as we know, have to carry out their vital assignments throughout the country. I think it's one of the things to take into account, too, that it's not too much to focus on that all matter, where the so - called headquarters are. [[The president calls.]] That is the question about their work and their focus, and that is what counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u102	Mr. President. We're here at 2nd. on the bill to legalize the European Commission's legislation on the Council of Government, No. 115/2011, with subsequent changes, strategy, institutions, etc. I want to start my case at the beginning, i.e. on 1st. the bill, which says, with permission of the highest power. President: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. This law has sometimes been called the fishing facility, and it may have been the very nature of what has been discussed most in connection with this bill today. In fact, I found it interesting that came out of the question. paritaprevir In his earlier discussion, Helgi Hjörr said that he thought it was unwise to conclude that the matter had been settled from committee to 2 C.E. Um, that the matter is a product of the fishing shop and that the matter is covered by reviews. He thinks so, but guess what. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar is a member of the Committee. The management board, which has had this bill discussed, would have been more comfortable with being on the committee. However, they were not allowed to lie, and if the bill mentioned here is accepted, then the minister will determine the location of the institutions that are under his direction unless there is any other law. I don't think this is a good impression, and I'd like to agree with what is said in my committee party. The management and monitoring committee, and therefore I would like to read from it a committee, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: The European part believes that we will review the old legislation on Iceland's Council of Government and the sentence of the current law has, in effect, been made a decision to dismiss the legal authority of the Minister to denounce the establishment of the institutions under which he will hear. There is a difference when an institution has taken root in a particular area, whether the work or the staff is looked into. This will affect the competitiveness of the Agency for staff. Another is the establishment of a new institution that is not built together by institutions or older ones, although, of course, a clear grammatical argument is needed at all times. The minority agrees with the viewpoint expressed in the reviews that a minister's decision regarding the transport of the Fish Room shows the importance of having the institutions established by law. There is evidence that a great deal of knowledge has already been lost, since many employees have stopped. In this case, uncertainty about the location of the Agency may also affect the possibility of recruiting qualified persons. The minority believes that permission for Ministers to transport institutions to their own interests without objective support, financial and professional evaluations is an abnormal exponent to the attorney's authority. The source is designed to strengthen the European Commission at the expense of the legislature and considers the less part dangerous to promote such trends when experience shows that there is always a need to limit the authority of the European Commission. At the same time, the smaller section agrees with the view that there is a much more urgent need for discussion about the purpose and aim of such changes than is the bill. The minority notes that although authority to transport in public institutions is subject to the approval of the legislatator, such transport should, of course, be possible. However, the establishment of the legislators reduces the risk of quirk management and is more likely to promote professional, responsible, and reasonable practices. Under these circumstances, I take my heart to believe that this is actually going to go on a long way to say what needs to be said about 1 st. The bill. There is, however, more than just the transfer of the Fish Room, which has been most discussed here on this one. In the bill to correct a change in social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, goals, management and general requirements, which have passed through 1st. Here at the council, and now it's under consideration. A welfare committee, says, by permission of the President: The secretary decides the location of the insurance agency and where its service centre should be, following the direction of the director. At the same time, a minister may decide to combine the services services of the Insurance Agency and the services of other public institutions. This law in relation to the bill we're discussing here, and now I'm actually worried about it because in this social security bill, it is being suggested that the location of a law-made insurance agency be ignored. Of course, today is not at all necessarily the highest. A social and housing minister has planned to move the Agency, and it may even be relatively unlikely. On the other hand, if this law were accepted and this bill were to be taken here, a minister would be able to combine the services centres of the Insurance Institute and the services of other public agencies. To this end, I am concerned that institutions such as the insurance agency and its services centres and well connected to form public transportation, which may be more likely to have a private car than many others. Therefore, the location of the Agency is important not only in the capital area where most of the agency's customers are concerned but also that access to it is paid. I'd like to mention the exact location of another institution, which is Iceland's health insurance on a Vienna mission. It's an example of a government agency that, in my opinion, is completely incompetent, although it is certainly in the capital area, and I do not like to see laws that actually make it easier to move institutions into adverse places for users or customers entirely without the discussion or location of the General Assembly. Then I'm worried that when it comes to the law of law that a minister will determine the location of the institutions, unless it is otherwise recommended in the law and when it comes to legal procedures for the location of the Agency, the chances of poor-thinking decisions or unconcerned decisions about the location are taken, and that there is an increased risk of what Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdosdótir, why. Our deputy of the left green is so neatly spoken as an ideal beauty of the 1st. about this bill and, of course, is a well - known probing pool in modern English. I don't think it's odd that maybe the half of today's discussions went to pars. For there is good reason. But I'd also like to make eight. The bill to talk about the subject, which it says, by permission of the President: ◯25. par. The law says: The Ministry of Presidency gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of ethics in case of follow-up, provides educational training on them within the Council of Government, and monitors their purpose. In order to ensure that the work of the U.S. Marshal and State Review is performed, the Ministry shall have regular consultation with that office. I'm concerned about this law, and I don't think it's gonna make it any better with this bill. Ministers to submit moral standards for the administrations that have worked and accept the task themselves or his Ministry. As a result, I believe the Ministry of Presidency, which is a part of the government, is being too close to the same government. I believe, therefore, that this arrangement is simply likely to reduce confidence in the government, for it is the source of itself and, above all, the Ministry of the Presidency, far too much power to interpret ethics and then possibly in favor of the government, and I believe that it is not what the Icelandic government needs now when the trust in both the Council and the government is unfavourable. So I'd like to agree with a smaller part of it. The management and monitoring committee, who have serious doubts about the establishment of a state-of-the-view board on moral criteria for the administration of the administration. Third, I'd like to talk about the y-tenth floor. In the bill, but in 1 0... will be discussed about the changes in other laws to which the implementation of these laws, if approved, requires. B-along tenr. considers changes in the laws on the rights and responsibilities of the citizens of the State, No. 70/1996, with subsequent changes. This bill says, with the permission of a president: It is considered, without the publication of a job vacancy for an application, to decide that an employee who is hired untimely to transfer for a given time or who is permanent between governments would be subject to the approval of the relevant director for the transfer and the employee himself. In a member of the committee's list, I'm sure it's my share of what I'm talking about. The management and monitoring committee will discuss this directive as it is said that the evacuation of documents for the transport of workers is intended to reduce transparency in such decision-making and the memory part points out that transparency is the basis for the public's ability to provide adequate support for governments. I also wondered how this affects the position of women who work or work for the State. It has often been said that increasing transparency will help women to have the same place with men in the workplace, but this could be the case in order to go the other way. I asked him earlier when I told him why. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, a member of the Committee on this point, explained that this had been slightly tore up the committee meetings. I think it's totally worth it, if we take the case between 2 and 3. That these things may be considered. At least I think it's worth my opinion to study this bill, and then maybe it's a special set of shades. I want to direct it to what? senators sitting at ease. The management and monitoring committee should do so. Finally, since I have a little time left to make up the publicity factor of Section 4. The bill, it's about the registration of information. It is stated in the Summit's article that the Committee identified any differences in the registration of relevant information, and this would have to be harmonized. The majority of the items suggest a modification proposal and it reads, with permission of the maximum. President: ▪ For formal communication and meetings, as well as informal contact should be submitted if considered important, between the management board's recruitment and non-participants. I believe that these adjustments are certainly improving and can agree with it on their own, but overall it does not change my viewpoint that this is the case that the Council should not agree at all because it would simply lead to a much worse law on Iceland's Council of Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. That's the 1st one. which the helicopter stands for, the thing that has been called the Book of Fish Service. Now I think we can all agree that this decision was very ill and is a minister to take it ashore, but some of the damage is done. True, in some cases there may be evidence that agencies do not necessarily have a legal home in Reykjavík. Public agencies can be thrown out of the capital area. A lot has been said about it, I've heard here today, that it's so important to have this access to institutions. Then you wonder: " If it's so important, why aren't we talking more about people's bioavailability in the country in these institutions? It doesn't have the floral access. Most of the time, it just needs to make a phone call. I've probably taken this example before when I needed a card from health insurance because I was living in the country, I had to wait 7 to 10 days to get that mail. If I had lived in Reykjavík, I would have been able to drive up, walk in, and get a card delivered in 5 minutes. It's a big difference, I'd say. It didn't matter to me, but I can imagine that this could be a big problem. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that it is normal to try something to distribute government jobs and to give this service across the country and not just by phone? How, then, do we do that? Do you really need to move the headquarters? The move to the country is now often so often that the branches are then gradually down and gone; the idea is likely to be that if the headquarters are moved, it's more difficult. It may be a little annoying to have to think like that, but what do you think? A senator on these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u104	Mr. President. This is a great need for discussion and good speculation. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's granddaughter's bramble. I just want to say at the beginning that when I was talking about an insurance institution especially, I think it's important that this institution is the centre of the capital area because most of her customers live here in the capital area. However, I wholeheartedly agree that it is very important to have branch offices from institutions throughout the country. That is why I think it is so important that a minister cannot decide to unite national service centers, since this would likely reduce the number of branch offices and staff. I'm much better off that when we think about the country, we don't take some kind of drastic action, as has often been suggested about the transport of Fish Houses, with man and mouse, to another place, but that we represent the institutions or services available and take it more in smaller units, or have the system built up so that people can work in their homes, even though the main structure or center of the administrative authority is here in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u105	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I've only been wondering about 1 st. I think I asked him why. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson went to the office of Ministers to transport organizations and received the answer as outlined here in the report that this authority to the minister to determine the establishment of the institution does not change that the Council can always by law determine where the institution should be located and that the minister's authority should fall. Perhaps it takes older senators than the two of us to think about this, because I've wondered how that would happen then. Would that be so, then, that the minister would treat you with something that the council would not approve of, or what? No. The council will then have to create new laws, create a bill itself not to transport the Agency, to remain in Reykjavík, however it may be. We may have to ask the senators about this because I don't see exactly how this is going to happen. [[The president calls.]] Has a what? What did a senator prophesy about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u106	Mr. President. Yeah, that's exactly what I've been wondering. That is very clear in 1st paragraph. The bill says that unless the law says so, the Minister shall arrange for the office under him. Then we must rely on the law that it is already in the law where the Agency should be. Now, in the example I took of a insurance agency, it is just taking the law and moving it to a minister. So I think this is a real reason for me. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson's son that the council can set this up by law, operates quite a complicated route in which it stands so clearly here in the motion of changing the law of Iceland's Council of Government to allow the Ministers to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u107	Mr. President. It is reflected in the words of all the members of the council here who have spoken that their will is to try to bring about the land's rights by establishing more work on the government there. The principle of fishing, which is the most controversial law in this bill we are dealing with, is, in fact, just a very strong and determined effort to do so. Of course, there smells of old testosterone like things this government is doing, such as. The adjustment of a frame where a person wants his knees to conform to his abdomen and show who has caused it. However, from my experience, it is very difficult to move jobs to a country. Let me review my experience. I wrote at my time, and I received an approved proposal for a job without a location. She did a little good at first. Then I tried to use her to move to the country as minister of foreign lands. Then it was found that people in the capital area wanted to take advantage of these jobs, but I said no, this is to increase their jobs in the country. I was taken up by an agent of the Generals. It was that simple. In other words, the question of equality prevents us from using it as we intended when we agreed here. It's complicated. I also participated in an effort to transfer organizations to the country, and that was very difficult. At that time, we learned the lesson, and we decided not to take the route here. At that time, the goal was to create branch offices in the country, including those in the United States. A fishing room, and through it has managed to increase the number of jobs in the country. Of course, jobs can also be used without a location, but not as we originally thought possible. But I would like to ask. A senator, when she examines the development of branch offices: Is it not a better way, though more slow, to increase the number of jobs the state has in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u108	V.E.G. President. The short answer is yes. I think it is a very good way to increase the number of branch offices in the country, although it may certainly be slow and may not act as the only community operation we are going to take. However, the benefits of increasing branch offices are twofold, one of the most professional, and the other, in creating those who do their jobs and the other, increase the service and shorten the way to attend the ministry for those living in the territory, so that we make two improvements by doing so. I think this is a very positive and good way we're supposed to go along with other things, like what we were talking about last night, a bill that turned even. that coastal fishing, there are other things you can do to strengthen your country's population. I think, however, that moving one major organization with you and a mouse is something that everyone sees if they learn not to work out, for, of course, those who are already working in the Agency and their families and their interests need to be taken care of. It's way too much, if I let myself do this, a very nice operation to go on so that they can ever get along.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u109	Mr. President. Both the Ministry and the political parties lack founded memory, historical memory. Hv. A senator says it's a healing method, and she's absolutely right, but we found out here 20 years ago. At that time, a report was adopted that seven agencies should be exported to land, starting with the fact that one was moved and then men were stranded, and the government realized that this was not a good method. They literally talked down on the method of increasing branch offices or after incidents, if any new institutions, of setting them up in the country. That is a perfectly legitimate requirement on the part of the country, when it says: "We are to have our share of the work that the State has to do with it. It's totally normal. The question is about the method. This method has been tested, and it failed, and the defeat of that method was one of mine, because I participated in that experiment. This conclusion was reached. That's why it's so stupid for the government to go that way. [[The president calls.]] That's why I said in the beginning that there is less in institutions and political parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u110	V.E.G. President. I can accept it because I lacked much less in order to know the story as a man. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson traced efforts to transport large institutions in such a verdant way to shore. On the other hand, I think that during the season, I'm standing up with both feet, feeling that we should do much more of it, and that is one of the things that we, of course, are supposed to do, to protect the service given throughout the country already and to make sure that it is not laid down, but just the other way and increased. One of the reasons why we especially need to do so in order to increase the competitiveness of the country, so to speak, is to establish a general Internet relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u111	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Now it is as we have seen in most talks that everyone wants to distribute the services of the United States, which most of the country as possible, but the question is: How do we do it, how do we come to a conclusion in this regard? It has also been observed in earlier talks and evenings that one of the things we learned from things before a crash was that men were making hasty decisions or decisions were made by few sources. There was a lot of complaint, ministers and the majority, and it is very clear from a report by the WCC and, indeed, also in the findings of the Parliamentary Committee. For one thing, 2011 allowed for a one - side transfer of organizations to land. It also happened that the Ministry of finance made a very thorough and careful report on how to transport an institution in case of such a development. What is unusual in the fishing facility is that the decision is first made by a announcement somewhere in the northeastern country by prime minister, thus reaching us in the media. This is followed by the minister of that number, i.e. Professional minister, and the staff are in position to know that they are going to be with Fish Room in the north of Akureyri. There's no legal authority behind it, it seems that people didn't think anything about it, and there's going to be an enormous uncertainty. I want to go inside. A senator, by how she feels about these sequences of events, and whether we are turning back on a decision and to a minister and majority order in which men are almost organized to try to avoid the coming up of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u112	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir In the beginning, Guðbjartur Hannesson said that members of the council wanted to move their jobs abroad as far as possible. I think there's a bit of an important point, because what's possible? I think there are some conflicting views. After all, it is possible political decision, and that is why the decision mattered. Yeah, I totally agree with that as well. A senator asks if this is not being returned to the night's decision and to further the Minister's resolution. I think that's exactly what they're doing and like what they're doing. Of course, it was a series of events, as we have experienced in various matters. - Yeah, now it's come out of me what I'm going to say, so I hope I'll be over it by the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u113	V.E.G. President. We're here to talk about what's possible and what's wise. That's exactly what's in the Ministry of Economic Affairs regulations for analysis of the operation, the cost of moving, planning and other projects, as well as human resources. In the case of specialized men, such as in Fish Room, it is not easy to take him on a single board between parts of the country, because it has all been a disastrous shipwreck, with serious consequences for the institution, unfortunately, and even as for us who have wanted to fight for the procreation of the country because this will destroy the discussion of it when making such decisions. One thing that the government stresses is that there will be an agreement and cooperation that is basically a joke over the situation that has been over the past few days. They also speak of the need for firmness. I'd like to know what it is. A senator considers these measures to be likely to result in reconciliation and cooperation in the Icelandic government system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u114	Mr. President. No, I don't think this is going to lead to firm, unconvergence and harmony. We can only imagine what would happen if this bill were approved and the minister cleaned up and wrote a song about relocating an institution and we here at the General Assembly would have no choice to say because it had become the Minister's decision to move it, not the Generals. There wouldn't be much more here to be happy about. What I was going to say about the Ministry of Ministers in a previous reply, and I forgot that it is not just a matter of giving governments advice on how to interpret ethics. So you feel somehow that the Ministry is going to be all over the place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u115	Mr. President. Many good things have been said in talks. Senators who have discussed this matter today and fully realized from the discussion that there is a great disagreement on the subject. However, I would like to try to point out at least what could be done in order to make such a big difference from what it looks like right here and now. I especially want to swerve three things, and there are, of course, the major points presented in the Committee's list of my parts. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. It is, first of all, a minister's permission to transport the institutions, second, the mobility of workers within the administration and the third suggestion that the coordination committee on moral standards for the administrations of the administrations will be submitted. It's no secret that this bill has been directly linked to the failure of the Fish Service transport that was attempted to move from Hafnarfnarfjörður to Akureyri, but in fact, there have been a half of an amazing chain of events surrounding that move. They have now been postponed, and not kept unsatisfied, so that by the day they had been ill prepared and decompressed. That may be the whole thing about the Minister's warrant that appears in Article 1. the bill, i.e. that a minister shall state the establishment of the institutions under him, unless the law is otherwise recommended. It is claimed here or indicated that this document fell down almost unconcerned or by mistake when the Council's Law was changed in the last terms, but in the false number of comments on this matter, many of which are the same, it is forbidden to give such open permission to make a decision without any definition of how to make such a decision, where to put the establishment. It is stated in many reviews that I have been reading at the same time while following discussions that this is not the interpretation of the laws given at the time by administrative experts, public employees, the League of colleges, or others. The idea of not having such an open source in the law is, in fact, that it is not normal for ministers to have power in large matters, such as where the institutions should reside. Like what? Councilmen have pointed out, and they also present the committee's list of my section, it is very important that such decisions be well supported, that such decisions be grammatical support, financial evaluation, professional evaluation. If all the data is not available, such an open source is available to move the strains to an abnormal exposé in the power of the legislature. And that's what it's all about. No matter how innocent this article may seem, it may not all matter where the institutions are located and it is normal for ministers to have such authority, the article says that there is a dissociation of the authority of the administration to the Commission, especially when experience in the past few years and decades shows that we should rather be trying to strengthen the position of the legislature authority. Because I mentioned that there was a possibility that there could be some improvement in this matter, I would have thought that there would have been a much better way to define how the movement of the institutions stands in order to take organizations across the country or to the capital or whatever it is. How do we want such transport to be accomplished if we want to transport organizations at the same time? There may be considerable reasons for such transport, but such transport needs to be well prepared, it needs to be given good warning because, as we have noted, such transfers have to do with life and employment, not only the individuals working in the Agency but also their families, but such transport can also be involved in the role and activities of the institution. Hv. Parliaments of the city of Guðbjartur Hannesson and Steinunn, the daughter of Árnadóttir, had an excellent switch in the history of the founder's memory. One of the important things in careful management is what we call institutions, the customs and traditions that arise within the public institutions, the knowledge and experience of the workers working there. It is a major decision, Mr. President, if it is decided to transfer an institution at once and what if it is possible to do almost no warning, if it can be done without the presence of the council, if it is not an independent assessment of the financial consequences of such transport and professional consequences, for the professional consequences can be severe if experience and knowledge is lost from an institution that can take years and decades to rebuild. In fact, I have believed that the government can do better in creating jobs without a location in the country, and I hear, in fact, when I travel through the country that people there often feel that there are very few jobs to do without a location. Like what? Senators have made it clear that this discussion is not going to be about the goals that I am sure we can agree with, as far as possible, to ensure the distribution of public activity across the country. Here, though, it is important that we place it down to what kind of practice we want to see in transporting such institutions. It would be easy for the General to make changes in the bill so that this article would be much more temperate, so that it would be designed to form, as shown in the minority view, that such changes would be natural to pass through the Council and that it would be accepted by the Generals, and that it would also be defined in a certain way as to which procedures should exactly follow if a minister had the intention of moving such an organization. Then it comes to number two, which is the mobility of workers in the administration. Of course, I understand some of the pratic arguments that lie behind them, of course, that can be moved between recruitments at the moment, but these are being suggested for a certain period of time, they are being suggested to clear that warrant considerably. In the context of my section's mention of this provision, representatives of the employee are made aware that employees are rarely in a real position to refuse such a move. This is a thought - provoking point, and a great deal of authority is being given to executives on such a move, as is indicated here. It is at home when readings to make up the union of state - and - town employees, which makes significant comments on transport and, on the other hand, the general authority to transfer staff between recruitment and institutions, the coalition has protested and gives evidence that it is very important to advertise government jobs. The aims behind it are that everyone is given the option to apply for the state's vacancies, thus ensuring equality, and the goal of the vacancy is also to ensure that the most qualified individual is hired to operate at a time. A similar perspective can be read in the comments of the League of college students, so I believe that while we may be having temporary access to transport, we must not lose sight of the important objectives of advertising. I'd like to add one objective to the two members mentioned by the Alliance of the state and towns, which is the second chance everyone has to apply for the job vacancy as well as the most qualified individual being hired. Of course, the third aim is to ensure that the public in the country can have confidence in public institutions because such recruitment is being carried out in a transparent way, that it lies completely in place and that the job is published, that there are people who apply for the job, and there are potential candidates for the recruitment process. Such demonstrations of human resources are the basis for confidence in the administration of the citizens of this country and for the public trusting in the administration of government is essential for a foundation in a democracy. One of the things that have been carefully discussed at the council is that it is a common concern and solution for us senators if the confidence in the government in general diminishes. We have seen examples of this now in individual recruitment measures, events that have caused the public to be less confident in the administration than in the past. It's a concern, because there's a lot of people there to be able to trust that everything is open, that everything is done in a transparent way, and that each of us has this equal access, we can say, not only work within the administrations, but also be confident that the execution of the administration is the same, whether it is Jón or Pastor Jón. The last thing I want to talk about, and I know why. Many members of the council have discussed the issues I have tore up, and what I especially want to do is the suggestion here on putting down a moral cohesion committee. It is interesting to learn the history of the code of ethics in the public administration. It's been 12 years since Our State's Accounting issued a report on the need to set rules for official administration in Iceland, that's as far as it goes, Mr. President. It reviews the code that has been established in Britain and the United States. It also discusses the coverage in the other North countries at that time regarding the guidelines for the whole administration, and reports on working on such rules have begun in Finland and Norway. Now it is so in 2015, twelve years after this report was published, that there are, of course, moral rules in public administration all over the North and there are also a number of ethics committees that I plan to do a little more closely afterwards. That is an excellent comment in a 2003 State Review report. It quotes Professor Sigurður Kristinsson, a remarkable authority on ethics. It's kind of gray to watch the government suggest that this committee will be put down at the same time that the European Union has recently established a ethic committee that has provided Sigurður Kristinsson's ways. So I feel that state and rural society are going their separate ways here, and I think we're doing better, Mr. President, so I say. The Sigurður of Kristinsson has written on ethical principles, and his book on that subject is quoted in a report by Kingdom Review. I'd like to quote that, Mr. President: ▪ Most people have an opinion about what moral values are. It is well - known truth that lying, stealing, and cheating are wrong, but it is proper to be honest, helpful, and vengeful. Mr. President. This sounds like common sense, and it is likely that many here are thinking: Yes, we need no help in realizing this. But then I quote again to Sigurður Kristinsson: ▪ When it comes to interpreting different situations in the light of these general truths, the difficulty is created. Then, at times, people find escape routes to appease their own consciences and those of others. Mr. President. As a matter of fact, ethics can make it easier for both politicians and employees in the government to deal with a serious moral situation at the workplace. The Code of ethics can also help shape the values to be set up within the administration, since the code of ethics reflects the value of the executives considered important to the relevant workplace. We have many examples of social committees that are active. I've named the National Social Committee, we have social committees in many big public institutions that deal with narrower areas, such as the colleges of the National Social Services, we have a scientific burning committee, we have a moral committee for Hospitals. I myself have a synopsis in this room to consider the possibility of developing a national body of dancers and German models, which have a broader role in moral terms that may arise in society, and it knows a higher power that they are many, especially in times of increased knowledge and technology in the field of genetic science. It is also enough to mention increased knowledge in the field of artificial intelligence, since I am quite sure that the discussion of the moral standards associated with it is far shorter than the development of technology in those areas. All right. If we look at the rest of the Northern countries, there are a wide range of social committees within the official administrations that have the responsibility to handle particularly the matters of opinion that may arise in the office of Ministers but also other officials and other employees in the public administration. I would have thought there was really no outside situation to recommend such a committee to the Icelandic government. It says that there is a code of ethics here, and the Ministry of Presidency can provide guidance on how to deal with key opinions. I'm asking, Mr President, is there a ethic working at the Ministry of Presidency? Or does the Ministry of Presidency think this isn't a trade like what else? If I had to give counseling on legal matters, I'd just say, "Yes, I'll take care of it, I've seen so many legal contributions here at the Council that I've had some idea what it looks like, and I'll give you advice on this? Of course not! This shows disrespect for professionalism, showing lack of understanding of professionalism, thinking that these studies can be interpreted by saying, "Hey, the rules are here, and we don't need any help. " The point is that ethical standards can never be exhaustive and should not be exhaustive. They should be a general guide for what I read earlier, quoted by Sigurður Kristinsson, i.e. how we act properly, so I put it as generally as possible, but circumstances may vary, so even though we in general consider ourselves to be relatively good and honest people, we do not always know exactly how to do what is right. We're not worse people for that than then would I have thought, and feel strange that the highest. The government doesn't agree with me, that it would be good to have a professional committee that could help you make the right decisions. Just as we have a lot of professionals working at the Board of Management Board to help us make decisions that do not conflict with a constitution, in order to make a ruling by law and regulations in our country, that's not all written in law and order. There are also other factors regarding the general morality, and I would have thought that stewards and Ministry, officials and all other members of the administration would be good and positive if they were to have professionals whom they could consult on the behalf of such cases. I think this shows some lack of understanding that ethics is not a popular debate about what you think each time. As we noted earlier, it is precisely so that you often find escapes to appease your own conscience and others. Mr. President. We have certainly seen an example of how during the council men invent escape routes where they believe they have done everything right - natural, human nature. Should we not be glad to have some professional whom we could consult? I know for myself from my experience as Minister that there are issues of opinion that arise, and of course, you can often justify yourself that something is perfectly justified in certain situations, which may not be right to think. Mr. President. I think it's strange. However, I have seen it because I watch the Norwegian media, since the tendency to remove the social committees seems to stick to right governments in many other places. Thus, the Norwegian government is trying to suggest, and to face a bitter opposition, to put down a higher standard of the Norwegian oil budget and consider no reason to examine the Norwegian oil investments in any other light than economic standards, because they do not consider it a reason to examine such investments from moral standards. It's nice to say that it was to learn that the Swedish telephone company, which is in the majority - owned state and government government administration, has had very questionable investments in Azerbaijan, where many unclean things seem to be in the bag corner, and I say: perhaps it would have been better to have a moral committee to review that trade, because investments are not just economic savings. There I think we lack a certain understanding of this role, and I feel that this bill reflects a lack of understanding. Although the reviews have to do with most of the other factors, such as I made up of a subject in my speech, I cannot fail to give strong criticism to this aspect of the matter. I feel that he shows a lack of professionalism and lack of understanding that professional assistance may be needed in matters of morality, such as any other profession. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate with a meaningful speech. Its views and mine are already somewhat compatible with the factors she first traced in her speech, on the Board of Directors, the execution of the institutions, and the transfer of employees within the Board of Directors. I only object to what the senator mentioned on the social committee and the illustration she received professionalism, and what seemed to the Ministry might as well have deposed the legal department in the Ministry of Presidency and intended officers there to handle matters according to the sensibility of their hearts alone. So I wanted to ask the senator, because she has considered this matter: Can the reasons for this proposal include that the government itself is afraid of independent expertise in this field, and will not have a committee with independent authority within the framework of the Government's Regulation and fear it? Or does the senator believe that there are other reasons? Could it be that it is the government's position that it poses a threat to a ethical committee that can evaluate the actions of ministers at any given time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the aged Árnason of Athenians, questions such as these. An article with the bill suggests that there is no experience in the work of the committee now proposed to put down. Its regulations were legalized in 2010, and it is stated that this committee's discourses - its role was also to introduce the code of ethics and to make suggestions or to make guidelines that were later established by a minister; but it is noted that the presentation was primarily in the hands of the Ministry of Presidency, and it is only natural for such presentations to be handled. A few talks were received, this is not a long time, these are a few years in question, and it is initiating a new thought, new rules, and then the Ministry of the Presidency has taken over and taken over after the Commission's appointment. What I would be interested to know is the nature of the information presented to the committee, perhaps in the open meetings of the committee, and to see if it is not really an example of the need for such committees to support themselves. Let us see that this is a matter of a few years. There is a new arrangement, that this committee is active, that these rules are valid, and I consider that this committee has been cut off before proper experience in her work has taken place. Hv. A senator asks: What are the reasons? I can't figure it out, because I feel that this role is minimized; it is now important to perform this role, but there is no need for a legal committee to handle it. Then you ask yourself, " Why is it the highest? ' Prime Ministers that the work of the administration is so trivial that no special committee is needed, or does he feel that there is no need for the ethics committees in the colleges or other government institutions, for example, where sensitive matters are handled, such as those in the administration? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u118	A respectable president. It's about to thicken the soup, because when you look at these comments from the paper with the bill and compare them with the opinion of the majority of the Committee, it's actually gonna be even more peculiar. The majority of the committees say, on permission of presidents: The Commission stated that in view of experience with the Committee's work, a special legal committee is no longer needed to carry out this role, although it is important to continue to do so, including to ensure that ethical standards develop to the normal level. The majority agree with this and feel that the change is normal. If no one is to take care of the assignment, how should it be done? The rest of it goes on to say, by permission of the president: It was observed in an electronic study that most employees believe that ethics play an important role in their work but that there was a lack of instruction and follow-up in the rules. The majority feel that ethics, discussions, and working with them should be an active part of the employment of recruitment and institutions. It's kind of incomprehensible. This is like saying that there should be a cafeteria in every area and in order to ensure that good and wholesome food is available, it is best to shut down all the consumers in the plots, lay down all the employees who make the food. I want to ask you why. A senator, since there is no change in the opinion of the greater part: In what way should no one be able to carry out the project, either under the budget, because it is not expected in the original bill to be more efficient by his special employees, but by otherwise the majority of the members of the Ministry of Presidency. It appears, then, that people there can add this project, which, while considering the greater part of the committee, should be fundamental to the work of all advisers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u119	Mr. President. The first conference of moral standards for cohesion is from November 1, 2010, and its last meeting, from the time the committee is actually decommissioned, the time of its completion, is October 3, 2013. So the committee served for three years, and the Ministry of Presidency assesses that experience in her work is possible as an additional project for someone else who is expected to be not civilized, according to the report. Like what? paritaprevir The annual report of Páll Árnason made this likely to be an additional project for someone who does not have a expertise in the field, which says everything about the highest esteem. Prime Minister for this trade. If the meetings are checked, although running, the committee seems to have had plenty to do. It involves a review of ethical standards for individual organisations and at the end, reminding me of the second or third meeting of the Committee, the need to investigate among the management board staff whether or not these rules are working, whether it is considered to be a follow-up, etc. But since then the case has been over. The question may have been asked as a question. A senator gives evidence of general satisfaction and need, in other surveys of personnel, so that you do not really understand when reasoning actually leads to the continuation of this project, after which some other decision is made. Because why? A senator asked me what might be the reason here last year, so I wondered if the highest. The prime minister is only uncomfortable with the committee of non - Witnesses, independent experts, who care for these matters; whether it is more convenient for him to have these matters just inside the Ministry so that there are no independent experts available to consider these matters. It is now being discussed with the Council of Morality, where it is intended to have such an independent committee, but we see that the Council is moving in a whole different direction and in a different direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u120	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for her speech. It presented three factors that are the transfer of institutions, the permission of ministers to transport institutions, staff mobility, and then the code of ethics. Many of the issues that have been published during this council, and indeed during the two years of the government, indicate that there is a desire to expand the Ministry and the majority, bringing power back into the hands of a minister. I call this an opportunity to conduct pedestrian decisions in the first place. In some way it is as if this state fears government opposition, i.e. democratic discussion, being able to speak down to conclusions. It is as if here a nation's fear of the nation, a general discussion of solutions, and the fear of democracy, can be decided on as far as most people can. That attitude makes me feel like a crying opposition to the ultimate goal. In the first place, the government set out to make peace and harmony in the community. I wanted to make staff mobility a subject. It is stated in the reviews, including those of the Contestant and, in fact, other sources, that people are concerned that if anyone is to be transferred from counsel to agencies or from agencies to the Ministry, it can be a common law on this in the administrations as a threat. We talk about the need for independence by surveillance agencies and not being under the heels of certain authorities who make various decisions, and then the question is, Is this not a threat to independence? And the question is, Is it literally dangerous to use power and threaten or suggest that employees will be transferred if they do this or the other person's work at his office? I think this tip is really good. I think it's her right. There has to be a flexibility between recruitment practices, as we have discussed at times, and there is also talk of flexibility between recruitment and institutions. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator's opinion of this case is specific.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u121	Mr. President. Contestation, like what? paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Hannesson notes, points to the importance of the independent surveillance agencies and to the fact that this is in charge of all policy measures in the management board. Then we'll come to 6. A smile, that's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon made up the subject mentioned earlier, in the latter part of this article: At the same time, it is permitted to set up specific operations and services, which are operating as part of the Ministry. Such operations direct a government official, in the sense of law on the rights and duties of the employees of the state, under the management of the Ministry. This article is still very open, and it is likely to be open to governments to become part of a plan for it to become a government agency. The report argues that there would be a fall to promote the administration of halls. We can also reflect on other viewpoints in that regard. For example, I can take a controversial bill that is available regarding the development of a research agency. It is an independent agency, which certainly has a certain government agency commissioned by the Ministry to carry out certain tasks. V.E.G. Secretary of State has suggested that this institution be reconciled to the State Department. I ask: Is this article opening up a warrant for such organizations to become part of the crisis? And then there is much greater presence at political power. Of course, it is particularly sensitive in the case of the surveillance agencies, such as the cognition. A senator here points to the matter. But we might also ask ourselves, " Is it normal for the Ministry to carry out on daily projects such as those being suggested by the changes in the development community? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u122	V.E.G. President. I had in mind a developing research agency, as an example of the obvious intention of bringing institutions under the Ministry. This could be done in many cases; a children's clinic under the Ministry of Health or an Astronomical Office under the Ministry. Is that a blessing? Or we will reduce the independence of the institutions also referred to, if I recall correctly from the management society, i.e. that the director should take the initiative and be responsible for his organization? One of the most common excuse for paying attention to various decisions, such as those for the Ministry, is the request for a minister to make a decision about the other and that. We have a call from a health minister asking: Aren't you going to secure a doctor on the weapons area this weekend? Sometimes I have a feeling that when we combined a ministry and then they were separated again, that's exactly what it is to be. I've often thought about it, when people take whole countries like Sweden or Norway, which even have a small number of ministers -- yes, I don't say they have 22 or 23 in Sweden, but there are a lot more residents behind each minister and do not expect ministers to be involved in unique matters. It seems to be coming back in this bill, in connection with the Developmental Cooperative Agency. This comes up in education, where decisions are being made on a number of subjects. Secretary of education. I think it's a hell of a comeback. Hv. A senator spoke of the possibility that this might be done in another way, regarding the transfer of the institutions, and spoke of the need to make rules about how this would be done. Counts 'em out. A senator did not say that the regulations set out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs - exactly as followed by the 2011 discussion that it was said that it would have to be defined precisely what the need of the Agency, what the costs, will be carried out in the implementation programme, etc. before any such project - is it sufficient, that there is in itself no need but to use what is in the system today, which is ignored, and no one seems to know when making such decisions; which is the missing member of the Ministry; and what was called the previous memory loss of stock memory?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u123	Mr. President. I find it important to mention that the report shows that, in comments about 6. G., that institutions that have been established by special laws - that they need to be changed by a decision or suggested to unite such institutions under a government agency. So here, then, is a principle that requires a special adjustment in order to make use of it. But I'll do the same, depending on that as well. A senator noted that the report shows that there are decisions that are independent of the authority of a minister but at the same time answer the highest. Ministers do not represent decisions made by independent committees or other such institutions. The report says, with permission from the President: ▪ Is there reason to shape a legislature on which such independent administrative committees are entitled to work within the Council of Government, which has that assignment? I wondered, " Is it not reason to wait for such a reference to compromise so that the 6th paragraph could be spoken? ' Because as it is now, it is all - clear. I can say that it's a good thing for such work to happen, i.e. what we owe our home in the Ministry and what we don't have. I can mention, for example, the administrative institutions that live under the Ministry of Education because I know a lot about it, on the Mindy Institute and on the other hand, a media committee. Which of these institutions would be more comfortable at the Ministry? For example, I can say about a media committee that made me feel very important that it was an independent organization and could speak independently and not be part of the political power. That may be more of a question about the Minja Institute. I just throw it out like this without me thinking about it. Wouldn't it be right to have such a policy before we have a warrant, since it's all very open, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u124	A respectable president. Of course, in the North or South, it should be one of the ideals. There's not much discussion about the President's conference board today, but it's enough to discuss this program here, the Board of Directors. But I must express my amazement at the emphasis on the members of the board. When the Council's Work Programme is over and the council is due to be home, and here we have a few more days to find out how fast it is to discuss the fishing business that day, probably the next and who knows how long. During the program, there should be so much more urgent - the currency capital for which the government groups cannot agree and cannot be delivered from the government, the housing issue from the highest level. Social Affairs Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir who is still stuck in the Ministry of finance, etc. - they're wasting time with this nonsense. I don't think you've had a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u125	A respectable president. I agree that this is quite a strange situation we are in, after the directors of the board met us, the heads of other classes, at a meeting here yesterday, and found that they had nothing to offer to try to complete the Senate work. I'm beginning to suspect, in view that the bill for currency was not discussed at the government meeting this morning -- it's not as if it's stuck in the government, it was just not discussed in the government this morning -- that here is being set up a play to cover over the fact that the government is unable to set up a policy in the important interests and wants to keep the council working here to talk about some worthless thing, as if a warrant should be set in order to allow Prime Ministers to move the Fish Lab, which is now abandoned. It is very strange to discuss authority here that is needed to do something that was to be done last year. I must call for an officer of the government to clarify his plans for Congress. Never before in the history of Congress has there been no point in speaking about meaningless matters. This is because the government's leader is unable to set policies on the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u126	Mr. President. I come first and foremost to declare that I'm surprised that there's nothing to discuss how we're going to complete Congress. A meeting has now been held tomorrow morning. Of course, the 10 committees do not match the committee table, so complete inforestation for the continuation of the activities of the Allegorium is inexplicable. This request has repeatedly been made to try to put the Senate's work in a fixed frame so that its members know what they will walk that, of course, we do not know how long the Senate will extend; we are not asking to know. It is disappointing that yesterday's conversations at a meeting of the heads of the classes have been successful, and here, not even an organized kaos but an unscheduled kaos in Congress. I now state my frustration with the situation, for if there was a will, it would be possible to work in a more efficient way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u127	A respectable president. It's a bit interesting that now that the council's work program is actually over and we're in some kind of timelessness - I don't know how to describe it once - that's what we're talking about. That's the thing that was knit around a single power attack that was about to move one government agency out onto the land; they found that it was not possible, that it was delirium, and that was nonsense, and it was knit around it some matter of Congress to make it look natural, disguise the pitch. This is the case right now in these circumstances, and it's natural that no other meeting has been held. I ask the president if he should try to achieve some minimal structure for the work here so that we can continue and at least find out what the next day will bring.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u128	The president thinks it's safe to assume that you would like to be organized here at the conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u129	President. It is true that, as has been said, a person's condition is a bit fruitless. We're talking here a case designed to save at the corner of some mess when men were going to move an institution onto a land for which they were not authorized. Now they're off the move of this agency, but still we're discussing this, and in the books, there are some stowaways I don't think they're very good for the Board of Directors or we're going to agree to if they do. I can't quite figure out what they're going to do. But we have been told that there is an urgent matter that needs to be brought into this council. That's why we're reviewing a work programme and I'd like to ask if the President has any idea when these matters will happen to the council, such as a stable tax, a currency manager, or what they are now called, and a housing bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u130	Today, the president has little information to offer on this subject, but he hears every curiosity of members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u131	A respectable president. I wondered why we would discuss this matter, especially since we had a recent list of the most widely accepted priorities. Governments, 74 of them. More than half of all the councils the government has proposed for this council. She's going to take a little less than half from September to June and then take a little more than half now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u132	Better half.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u133	- Yeah, better half, top priority now. But here we will discuss this administrative phenomenon, which seems only to allow a minister to make some decision that has been made either way; and if not, then, not just give him some greater power because he may not have enough of it. I don't know what the stairway is. This is a ridiculous, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u134	V.E.G. President. As has been noted many times, the Council's work schedule is now under way and worse, as well as the committee board. Yesterday morning's committee began at 1 00 p.m. At 8,30, I was at a meeting that lasted from 8,30 in the morning. The same thing happened this morning; a meeting was made from 8,30Howand in the morning, we're going to use that time to try to complete the two housing that have come in here even though they're not the main issues. This is true in all committees. So why not make a mistake on the program, and instead of standing here on this unprecedented fishing business, why don't we just prepare for a meeting in the morning that will take time and then be here with some organization on the program tomorrow? Isn't that all right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u135	Mr. President. There's no reason to discuss the President's conference board. Now this issue has been discussed all day, but it has a background we know and may not be the most urgent case at the moment. Of course, we're in a void here and something pointless, you know. It's a question of whether we're talking about booze in a camp or this case; it's as if it's made up of some buffet. However, the main rights are not given by the Supreme Court. Government; the main thing that should be here for discussion; we should be doing this and discuss the big things that have been foretold. Instead, we are here in some kind of riot that has no purpose. I'd like that at the highest. Mr President, he's about to step up and do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u136	Mr. President. I'd like us to be informed how to do this. It's allowed to have a meeting until 12. But do we need to stay here? If so, I feel abnormal at the highest. Prime Minister, he's not here. He was now here in a side room--a man saw him as a sneaker, he didn't come into the chamber here when the committee was recommended in the case last night. I wouldn't think anything unusual, considering that he's going to be a special moral master of the state, that he would come here and be ready to discuss the role he's going to take in his ministry and under his wings. In view of the position of the minister of his government, there is every reason; there have been reasons for this, so there is a reason why we should discuss this at the bottom of the bottom. Since this matter is on the agenda, the prime minister is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u137	The President will take steps to make the highest possible position. If we are to understand why, the prime minister knows that his presence is requested during the discussion. A member of the council so that it is a request that such messages be delivered. On the other hand, the president has listened to the requests of members of the Parliament and has hoped that they can tolerate his conference government in the exception of the above, showing that according to the custom, it is possible to expect a meeting until midnight on Tuesday nights without need for special authority. In any case, President intends to continue the discussion for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u138	A respectable president. I've been serving as an officer of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, and I'm approved with my committee party. There are a lot of interesting things in this matter. I think there may be some benefits, but here are articles I think it's necessary to discuss. Of course, that is first, but not the last one. And the saying of the fishing place, whereon one seeth. It is claimed that this law fell out of the law 2011, and since it was not discussed in the report, it is as if it was just a mistake, and now the mistake being corrected has been corrected in 2011. I have to agree with what has happened here, I don't think it was a mistake, but it's generally normal that such a big deal will go through the Council. We have an example that when new institutions are being set, the law says where they should be, and in some case, they have been located in the country, that is, in effect, in a way that the Council agrees with the law. I think it's so much more natural than hiding this power from a minister. I have to say, I don't quite understand how the Council should intervene, as the report there says, by permission of the president: ▪ The official authority to determine the establishment of the institutions does not change that the Council can always legally determine where an institution should be located, and then a minister's authority as recommended in the provision. I get it so that if you're talking about a new institution and you say it's under law where it's supposed to be, then it's valid. What, though, if a minister had held this issue with a Fish Lab? In what way should the General have responded? Is there a new bill? [[Up front.]] There's something I think we need to know. I'd like to state, however, in this discussion, I think it's right to leave public work on the country as far as possible, and since it's wise because, once again, public jobs are limited. We talk a lot about how important it is that a service be near the population. I guess they need to be close to people in the country. It is also natural for most of us to have the highest service, not to say that most people there are public employees. I'd just like to turn it around and say that it's not unusual for the increase to be the most, where the service is best. Suppose we take the Secret Bank and set it up in Eyjafjörður, then maybe we'd take four different departments with a lot of well-payed special jobs and put them in Akureyri, so we'd take some kind of powerful government agency and set up Dalvik. After 30 years, there would be population growth and more drama in Akureyri if this were to be done. It hangs together. I'm not speaking for this exactly, but it's no wonder that there'll be a snuffing force in the capital area where the service may be in many ways better, but not just that, but a much higher potential there for good government jobs, specialised jobs. Some types of education may be easier to obtain from the public than in the public market, there may be jobs for business experts, even lawyers, government managers, and so forth. Now it is not that Akureyri is necessarily ill - mannered in these materials, but the idea of a Fishing Room and transport of the North Fish Room is by no means new. In 2004 a report made by the EIW was considered on this possibility and how to transport it. The branch office in Reykjavík and elsewhere in the country is expected to continue, that is not to be the case. This was a very reasonable suggestion, considering the use of normal workers to reduce the number of workers in the capital area and the number of them in Akureyri in this case. I thought it was the way a minister acted in this case, the way it was announced, and the way it was handled all of this completely preprogrammed. I could never have spent that decision, because the industry has to be careful about this kind of thing, especially. This must be done in as much harmony as possible. I feel that all of this is a bit of a sin, because if it had been done well, I would have been so eager to take this discussion and to take it to the bar, because I don't feel that we need to be there, and we shouldn't always talk as if some jobs are not possible in the country because there are no experts and no one wants to live there and so on the streets. It's not like that. In April, I found it interesting to hear from a meeting of one year at the Institute of Living. Kingdom work statistics had been combined, with the values of some 2,500 by the 2013/2014 season. These figures show that the capital area is the only one in the country with a greater proportion of public jobs than the proportion of people in the country. So there are 72% of public jobs in the capital area, 64% of the population. Then comes the Northern Land of West, which has 2.1% of the values, and 2.2% of the population. This is interesting, though it doesn't say everything, but I find it interesting to see these numbers and look at them. For example, in the East there are 2.4% of the values, but 2.8% of the population. Of course, it's not unusual now that there are many jobs in the capital area, but I liked some of the things, for example. conducted during the last terms, which were just about to try to create jobs without location. The EEA has done especially well in this, I think, and, indeed, many institutions, but it's uncomfortable that there's no apparent policy in these matters, just according to each institution and every manager for himself how this is being handled. But I think what I hear from the EEA as a model. So it's clear, I'm against Comb 1. and I would like her to be released from the bill and that such changes would go through the General and be given the needed discussions. B-along tenr. has changed the way people can be moved from agencies to agencies and expected from agencies at the Ministry. I was in opposition earlier today to talk about the Council of Control and that I could imagine myself working as one place, that people would just be hired into the board of directors. In fact, today the Ministry is filled, but it was part of the changes taken during the last terms that allowed employees to move between recruitment with the approval of the minister and the employee themselves. I felt that I was a good stepgoer. In comments on the b-axis of 10. says the word, with the permission of the president: ▪ There has been some evidence that staff have moved from counsel to counsel permanently and temporarily in recent years on the basis of the legal authority established in 2011, and experience with this project has been good and unscrupulous. However, the lack of comparable legislation has been made to transport workers between institutions and recruitment practices, as well as between the two strains. Now I have to admit that I should have realized earlier that I'd wanted some logical support for this. This explains how many have been transferred to the place where some were about to be taken. Has this happened three times, or has it happened more often? I would also want to have reasoned with you on this sentence that the experience was good and unscrupulous. Of course I'm not saying there's been a lie in this report, but it would be good to have some numbers. I'm not necessarily against this article. I think it's good to have this flexibility, I'm thinking about the staff, too, but I think maybe it's one thing to move people between counseling, it's a bigger step to move them between the institutions and recruitment. If this is to be agreed, I think it is very important to be very closely monitored for the effects of this change, whether the staff are moving between and how they are affected and if they are content with these changes, i.e. whether it's good. But I'm not completely against it. I feel, however, that it is important, as stated in the committee's opinion, that there might have been more consultation with the unions involved, the staff itself, so that it would be part of this and see the opportunities described in the report. There's only been a discussion of 8. g., about moral standards and the so - called co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administrations that I might not find to be a good name for the phenomenon. I can agree with what's been said that I think it's a little loose. So the committee will be submitted and the role will be better handled within the Ministry in consultation with surveillance agencies and others. It is referred to by the Generals and the National Reconclusions, so it is said, in fact, that it is very important to continue to ensure that this work is being carried out, although it does not seem to be clear in what way it will be sure that it will be. It is the prime minister responsible. If I was to say exactly as I am, I felt the best response. Prime Minister to the opinion of State Accounting, which involved prime minister support, is in a way that he did not have much respect for that institution. Of course, you shouldn't think about it from the characters who are right now on the stage, but I don't think it's convincing, so I put it that way. This is something that would have been needed to take a closer look, and I agree with what is said in the minority opinion, with the permission of a president: The majority of these doubts exist, pointing to the committee's fact that logical support in the bill is limited and not clear as to what was going on with the change. So the minority feels that this aspect of the matter needs to be considered in a much better way. Another thing that I wondered about in this matter, but maybe it's too late to get answers right now, is whether there was some cost to the coordination committee on moral standards for the administrations. If it's a committee available, not the people in full pay to do nothing but a committee who is paid to do the work or whatever it is, I don't see why it can't remain active. I would've wanted some information about it. Other than that, I don't think that there's a huge change in the bill, and there are some things that I just think. But I can say that there are many larger things waiting, so we might discuss matters that, in fact, are not all that really mattered. That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u139	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. This bill shows that there is an improvement in the flexibility of the European Commission in organizing their work. It is suggested that the minister's permission to organise the Ministry be increased so that, in addition to the exchange of the Directorate-Athlete office in the trade office, there will be permission to set up the Office and Ministry of Ministers within the Ministry. In order to improve the law on the rights and duties of the personnel of the state, as a home to transfer staff from government to government without the publication of the job for an application. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator to request permission to not advertise the work being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u140	President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good point. This was exactly one of the points discussed because the advertisement's responsibility is very important to ensure access to all and hopefully get the most qualified people to operate. It has been suggested that, in return, the publication of the vacancy will be published. But I kind of see the pros and cons of this, both that men can abuse it by putting someone in place without having to advertise the job, but also that this flexibility can be used, if I give myself that there are not always other interests behind it, but that people are trying to get the most out of it. A worker who may not necessarily be in a particular location or who has a very special expertise in a particular matter may go over to another institution or interfere with counseling because his expertise could be used there. So I think it's both pros and cons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u141	Madam President. Hv. In his talk, a senator introduced public service to land. Moving public jobs abroad has often been a challenge, and I don't talk about institutions. Granted, projects have been carried, but often they have been withdrawn, and this has been followed by uncertainty and insecurity when some jobs have finally reached the point where they are not trapped. Now I'm not a previous legal hearing, which states that the Minister is alone with this and that this will not be discussed at the General Assembly, I believe it is right for us at the General Assembly to do so. See what? A senator of some ways to strengthen the possibility of reassigning jobs or institutions or projects to a country in a democratic way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u142	A respectable president. I would rather not talk about performing jobs than about the fact that when new people are being advertised, there is a possibility of working around the country as the Agency does. We don't necessarily have to say, "We have someone here in Reykjavík, and we're going to move her to someone else. ' It's been shown that people are applying, and I don't really know any examples except maybe experts that people in the country did not apply when it was advertised. However, at the same time as a minister was expanding this case to move 20, 30 persons north, three activities of Istavia at the Akureyri Airport went away. Food is out of Akureyri. I've been shrinking to nothing in the past. The agent's shop was shut down. You don't hear much of the activity that so slowly leaks from the region without any movement or support. To answer that. A senator I think we need more policy on these matters and I look at the EEA, where I feel I've been successful. They've got a work post. You can work at any office if you work at the agency. I think it's a good example.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u143	President. I see why. A senator who says she's against Comb 1. in the bill where the minister is entrusted with the warrant without all restrictions to transfer institutions or to set up agencies where the minister seems to be. I also understand it, so it feels that it is a great need to increase the number of public jobs in the country, where I agree with it. I think, however, that we all need to look at the fact that this is not easy and can't depend on how much population is somewhere and how many public jobs there are. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator will consider the Environment Agency, but I would like to ask, "Can it not be that agencies differ greatly in how they can distribute territory across the country? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that, of course, the ratio cannot be the sole factor, but it is one of many factors. Yeah, I'm against 1. Because I think it involves way too much Ministership and I remind you that we do not choose a minister. I might feel a little different if we were to vote for the Ministers' office. We won't. We can best see that after the election, everyone starts wondering and wondering who will land where and always be surprised. So I don't like the fact that a minister has too much power, I trust the General more. It is also true. One senator says, there are a number of ways in which agencies do this and whether they are above anything to predict being with employees in the country. I also find the concern of what you sometimes hear from rural society that it is said that the director of the Agency has shown this much understanding, that they still have an office in the area. [[The president calls.]] I don't feel that it should be in the hands of any individual directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u145	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree that this is not to be done by special directors. On the other hand, I still think that it's the experiment in life that often depends on how one person or the one in charge thinks, how that person is reinvented, how evolution becomes developed. What I may have meant, too, is that I think the nature of the strains is different and different if they can usually be distributed around the country. I was now with the Land Hospital myself, not in a head office, but in an outdoor. It was very strange how you broke out with what was actually happening by not being where everyone was. Though we are positive and want to move public service to land, we also need to think about the big context and that our system works as best it should. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u146	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that the nature of institutions differs, and it is not necessarily all agencies that can be with employees in the country while others could be with employees only in a country where the service may be the highest in answering people who call through phone calls or e - mail communications or other similar items. I know well how to be a branch office in Akureyri, the only employee there, and all the rest of them were in Reykjavík when I worked at the Nite Owl. It went very well because everyone was simply fixed on it, and communication was very much done on the phone, msn, and chat program. Then they each sat in their office, and something was decided just on the computer. But it is true that those who are in the country want to be forgotten, I know that too. You have to get some contact out there because it's very easy to become isolated. A little depends on the mood, and those in the country also need to work hard at it. So I guess we just agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u147	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's manner of speaking and asking her about things that attract the coordination committee to moral standards, certainly not a very detailed name, such as the ocean. A senator came in. In view of this, a greater proportion of the committee stated that although a special or legal committee is no longer needed, it is very important that this role be continued, including to ensure that ethical standards develop to the normal level. So the more part finds out that it is very natural to decommission this committee, but it is very important that its role be continued, it should be an active factor, and I don't know what, but no one should take care of it according to the bill. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's visualization of this, whether she thinks the Ministry is necessarily the right person to handle this role because it's about being able to provide advice and advice based on a particular expertise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u148	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I'm going to call it this from SSVS, this thing that's going to lay down. It's not good to do that because we only see it in all surveys that there's not much confidence in politicians, maybe there's a little more trust in the government, but it's extremely important to build trust in the government, we saw it after a collapse. Looks like we don't do anything because we have a code and this code on the record. I find that there's too much going on with both governments and society that suggests that we're not exactly on moral or ethical issues or what's not. I have to say, I don't understand how this is going to be done. Looks like the highest. Prime Minister will accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u149	Madam President. Of course, it does blow that in view of the highest authority in this facility. The prime minister to form a direction in dealing with the Federal Accounting and the Allied agent. A senator came by. The bill is quoted today so that only those institutions that have been able to cope with a noose on the outside will be properly cooperated. Prime Minister. It suggests that no special committee is needed, and this will only be done from the Ministry. But now there are classes of ethics, and the matter may be particularly sensitive to the administrations, since the Ministry is of course members of neutral tasks and work on implementing and following political policies. So there certainly do know a lot of opinions. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that there is a full need for such a committee. I'm asking why. A senator: What does it think is why this is suggested, even in view of the fact that the committee received only three years of experience? If a meeting was scheduled, the committee had enough to do at that time, yet it is claimed here that there is no special need for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u150	A respectable president. I have to admit that I actually discovered it just now in this discussion that it would have been wise to ask, for example. At the expense of this committee, if that's why. And even if that was a small cost, it should not matter to you. I feel a little regret after not asking about it, that's not how you look at all the smells on every subject, because I'd like to know. Is the cost? We know that the government is, and says it only openly, to put the sails together. Like what? A senator points out, too, that we have a weak agency, much cut down in the administration. Yet, they intend to take on this assignment and various assignments that we perform. We're about to agree to the official financial law this year. The management board has an enormous number of assignments. [[The president calls.]] So I would have thought that help from outside the issue was welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u151	Madam President. Of course, one of the government's bombs has been the move to the Fish Room that came a little like a thunder from a cloudless sky without providing good planning and such. I'm not going to get any further into it here, but the discussion about this bill has been shaped very much by that. If we think about what has just passed since collapse and that the reforms of the European Commission, including the regulations of a judicial committee and a special committee to advise, should be reassigned, it is a source of great concern. What also worries me is that the reviews on the subject are very high on the location of the institutions, less on the ethics and almost nothing. [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask: How much of the moral code or body of morality was discussed on the committee's side of the case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u152	You're right next door. A senator said it was an enormous focus, natural, on Article 1. The committee was contacted by staff, e.g. The director of Fish Labs and union unions and other factors because it was just so fucked up that the Bureau was in an upset state. So they were carefully examined. Now I'm an emissary on the committee, so I may have about 80% attendance, not all meetings, but it didn't work out as detailed as it had to be. The first time I read the bill, I didn't necessarily see that it was very serious, maybe because I thought it was still one of the committees that might be a little busy, that would be cost, and something like that. But as I say, we're going to end this in the minority opinion. [[The president calls.]] We may not make a strong statement, but we point out that this is something we think needs to be examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u153	Madam President. A powerful guide in moral standards and moral counsel does not guarantee us against bad morals, but it is vital that we have such efforts to strengthen confidence in governments, not to profit. I have had one meeting on the committee as a substitute and, of course, have observed this discussion from outside, but when I have now been preparing for the discussion and looking at the reviews, I feel very shocked to see how unconcerned this is. It seems to me that there were only members of the Ministry of Presidency and then a civilist agency that discussed it. IMI's here too, but in their opinion it's mostly about the registration of information. So I have reason to believe that this matter needs to be addressed to a committee and in a much better discussion with regard to this aspect of the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u154	A respectable president. I think it would be very good if all the issues were to be discussed, because this is hardly a case in which these discussions do not provide some points that we consider worthy to look into. But I think with this, like maybe other articles of the bill, including the article on moving workers, if the bill is approved like this, the surveillance role we have here at the General Assembly is very important. I feel that sometimes we forget our role when some law that we've even criticized very much, we don't follow up on how it's done, and we're responding to how it's handled, inquiries, and other things. So if it's going to be approved, I think it's important to keep an eye on and keep an eye on it and ask, "How are you going to take care of these matters? How's the top? Prime Minister to keep up with this and continue this important task carried out by the SSVS, and everyone agrees that it was important?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u155	A respectable president. Here I feel like a poor country priest who has swept away the whole congregation. There are only two members of the congregation here listening. The subject under discussion, the bill to correct the European Commission's legislation of 2011 is a very important subject, and in many ways I'm interested. I have sometimes said that the 1970 board was close to perfect in my mind, except perhaps in that law, that insurance agreements were expected to be under the health and insurance agency, where there was no distinction between social security and insurance insurance, which was later presented under the Ministry of Business. Similarly, in 1970 there was no environment; in fact, pollution did not exist in the 1963 dictionary, so that all things change and even laws that were almost perfect need for change. Until 1970, several things had been done in the management board of Iceland. Even then, the Ministry was founded on the printing of letters, and then there was a Ministry. In this way, the Ministry of Industrial Affairs was added to the Department of Transport of Transport, which became the Department of Transport and Industrial Affairs. Similarly, for three employees there was a Ministry of Economics without improvement. But then the Ministry of Economics began to improve, if my memory doesn't fail. It can also be noted that in this country, there was a three - year - long university education, from 1938 ◯1941, without any legislation on that school or regulation, but it was a school at some kind of seminary from the Ministry of Education at that time. Happily, these were corrected by the 1970 board of directors. There was the Council's operation taken into several firms, and a key point was that one of the directors was hearing under one minister; however, one minister was capable of many departments. It was firm. In fact, the 2011 Law, which is being discussed, may well be called the beginning of a certain calamity, the beginning of the events. As in some cases, there may now be a secretary who has two ministers. One thing I would like to mention in strange times of the previous year is that in 1944,1947, the Department of Transport was the Department of Transport, but the subject of air traffic was not for the minister of transportation but for the Ministry of Education. All of it was the weirdest. That's what I'd like to say at the beginning. Perhaps I should have been giving this talk in 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Environment, but this bill presented here appears to be a support for the decision to move Fish Service from Hafnarfnarfjörður to Akureyri. I believe that the presentation of that case at its time was in most ways very reprehensible. It has been said in the discussion that governmental institutions exist, not for employees, but for the citizens, once that employees of governments and companies who do their jobs zealously deserve respect and the jobs that they work hard to do, their self - esteem is due. This presentation was a direct attack on the self - esteem of the employees. I was thinking of a word that was being spoken about Valka. By permission of the President, I intend to quote those words. They are not many: each time her life was destroyed, she was always as concerned. I almost felt that the Agency was being destroyed by roots, the workers didn't matter. The founding process, such as the Fish Room, is primarily staff. There's considerable human resources and considerable experience. This presentation of the case was that my opinion is not to be made as though it were to be changed. In fact, I go so far as to say that the threat to the workers'loss is with the more serious it is that any employee or any human can get, which any human can get over him. I'll think of the theories of Dr. Elisabor Elisabethar-Kübler-Ross, who introduced his theory of death in his book On Death and Dying, who experienced confusion and despair and rootlessness, and this was unnecessary. I'm also going to say that men like to think of administrative institutions as job reforms, I feel that they can be picked up just to improve the working situation somewhere. In this regard, I want to know that in the Hafnarfjörður, things have happened in recent years. For example, a hospital was closed, not operating the county office any more, but a business office from the county official in the capital area. Thus, if there is a settlement somewhere in the country, there are also certain settlements in Hafnarfjörður, so we must not forget. But as for the fish lab, people can debate the usefulness and need of it, but while we're sitting here with a peyote system and a fish control law, it seems to me that a Fishing Room is necessary. To some extent, she took on the work of Iceland's Fishing Association, and in some ways she was given new work with the law on the control of fishing. All of this could lead to the Agency's getting sick. Now I don't know if this move has been postponed or has it been dropped, I can't figure it out. I believe my words in this talk have as much to say yet. I believe that in some administrative capacity, that's what counts. It is chosen for the Generals at regular intervals, at least every four years. It's changing governments, but it takes firmness in the administrations to make society work. I'd like you to attach yourself to the administration, but on the other hand, it might also require a certain flexibility and mobility. A project may change, and a project may need to be taken care of. I don't see that it's harmful, either for employees or institutions, that it can be transferred within the boundaries of the law on the rights and duties of employees' households, but I don't fully understand the concept that happens in Article 6. The bill. By permission, the president says in 6th. g., and I'll get to read it all: The head of the Department's Office shall be organized by dividing it into trade agencies and each office should be directed by an office manager under the management of the Ministry. All right. This is the division of the Ministry, the division of departments, the division of the Ministry we know. Then comes the following: In addition, it is permitted to set up specific operations and services, which are operating as a part of the Ministry. It's not an institution or a department, it's not an institution. I can't see from the report that this is very clearly explained, as I would have liked. It was in years past the Ministry of finance, which was like the god of Almighty at once and three times, i.e. The Ministry of finance was the Ministry itself, the Financial and Economic Organization and the State Accounting. Then, for normal reasons, the State Accounting was transferred from the Ministry under the Directorate of the Generals, but there was simply one of the Offices of the Ministry. So this part doesn't feel like giving the firms I'd like to have in the administration. Moral committees have been talked about and needed. I've sometimes said there is a need for a ethics committee when the accidents have occurred, but there are administrative laws and there's a constitution, and there's a thick code of laws that have legal values, there's no code of ethics, but there's guidelines. I've often said that regardless of how moral standards are put into writing, there will be no more than common sense. Too bad. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson should not be here because common sense is often shaped at times by what the Bible says somewhere in the Golden Rule, ◯ All things that you want men to do to you, so do you and them, and it would have been good to have that Bible-trained man by the hand if my memory had broken. [[To the point of common sense.]] I can't see that this bill would have ever been done unless it was the highest. The seas and agricultural minister began thinking aloud, i.e. He thought of moving the Fish Room from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri. It is sometimes difficult to think aloud, perhaps it is better to think silently. Then, following that, some Arctic branch committee I had never heard of felt that it was normal to move at least two institutions in the province of Taolfland, i.e. The D.C. and Richard, without ever realizing that there were other options in this regard. I have served the country, though in my life, and believe in many ways in the country, that public work is not the key thing to the country but the rest of my life. I think men should think mainly of a career in the country, but not always considering whether they could work with some public agency. I'm not going to keep those words longer at this time, a respectable president. I'll finish here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I may not entirely agree with him that public work is not important to the country. I don't think this application would be if it wasn't for them to be important because they are often specialized. For example, I think that the reason for this is that Akureyri's survival is because there are very large public workplaces, such as the Akureyri Hospital and two secondary schools, for example. For other jobs in the country, it is often the same as the way in which it accumulates in few hands. I know it from my district where one company actually moves the operation to Grindavík, and then it's dropped by a small rural group. We're gonna go for a second. A senator may not agree completely on this. The situation in the Fish Room is where I understand that headquarters will move north, but the staff company will ensure that no one will be laid off on the north as they drop down in the south, yet they will remain a branch office in Reykjavík. So I ask why. A senator whether he believes that this is an acceptable solution from what has been achieved, even though the Agency has been damaged, which would have never had to be done if humans had only done what they had done at first. However, the change is that the director of the Agency is moving abroad, and after that, experts are employed as to what happens, whether that is not an acceptable solution. The other is one, and that may be the question, why? However, a senator does not feel that it is normal for the General to accept such changes, where the institutions should be, or if he feels that it is reasonable for only a minister to have that authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u157	A respectable president. It's a big question, and first I'm going to do a story on the growth and survival of Akureyri. Granted, the University of Akureyri and the University of Akureyri have had a major impact, but what really matters in Akureyri, whether you like it or not, is the activity of seafood companies there. I can't think of it as an acceptable solution to move an institution into pieces, then you might as well kill it once and for all, that institution. It is a question of what the Council will hand over to the Commission on one board. It may well be that the project can handle quite freely adjournment. That's all I want to say. But I don't think it's an acceptable solution to move the Agency into some piece and extend its death war if that's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u158	A respectable president. Let's hope that there won't be some death war at the agency, that might be due to what has already happened. That's what I'm talking about. A senator only stepped on to section 10. to move staff not only between recruitment schemes as can be done but also between institutions. I don't necessarily think so, and I might be a good way for employees, too. It may be reprehensible, though, that this has not been worked on more than that, making workers see opportunities in this rather than threats. Perhaps it is more than that an employee refuses to go, in which position he is actually put if he does not want to move. Has a what? A senator or some other authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u159	A respectable president. Yeah, I've got an opinion. For some reason, jobs may disappear. It may be that there is a full need to have the flexibility that employees can be brought between the institutions, from the Office Department or into the Ministry, I don't think this is a big deal on how this will be discussed, I don't know. But it is only sometimes that some jobs get out of the way, and it is not good for any employee to get out of the way. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u160	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son for a very good speech. He reviewed the history of the administration and of the Council of Government, certainly scouring on a large scale, yet enough to give us a picture of decisions made over the centuries without the introduction of a formality. It is from her that the senator called, stuck in the administration, critical the bill, including. ... onthisestablishment, pointing to the 6th paragraph. That's where the bill is. Even so, the center of his presentation was the example he took from a Fish Room, which I thought was very effective, and I must say here that I think that this senator's lawsuits and lawsuits had a way of saying, hopefully, a solution. That's for sure. I'd like to back up one particular point he came on and turned to the ethic committee that's being laid down. The senator said that the moral code that matters most, or the standard, should be applied to that subject would be called common sense. The question is, Is it not common sense that needs to be fed? Is not there anything reasonable in the sense that needs working with? Was that not the very process laid down in the Law that is being taken away? What do you think? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u161	A respectable president. That's a big question. Reasonableness is a matter of principle. I've had and recently discussed it when people adapt to common sense in a way - yes, being creatively reasonable, which I have since led to a term called a moral breakdown. While it may be necessary to feed our powers of reason, I say that once a man has put in writing ethics, he may say, "Yes, here are the rules of ethics, and I applied them. " Still, conduct was immoral because moral standards did not fully take into account reason. But I believe there are ways of promoting human reason, but there must be two ways to stop it. I've been doing this in other ways. I wrote about creative accounting, creative interpretation, and if you let it go, then what I call a lawbreaker will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u162	V.E.G. President. I've said that when it comes to ethics, building work is more important than the piece of building. This is what is tried to promote by current law in this regard. Members from the unions, from government executives and from the university community who are specialised in the discussion of these matters, are called upon to organise how we can develop common sense, as the law includes the provision of prisoners to stimulate a discussion in the administration of these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u163	A respectable president. I think I'll underscore that there are three questions I wanted to direct to. Senator. He wrote a few things about ethics, and I did not fully understand the senator's position on that subject and wanted to ask him if he really likes the idea or the worst. As expected in the bill, the prime minister will supervise the procedure in the administration. The Senator said that the bill was only done because of the highest. Aggressor and agri-gri-gricultural minister thought aloud. It takes a little more than that the Presidential Radios appear at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. It requires the government's approval for the donation of the case as a bill of the administration and, therefore, the Minister of the Independence Party. I assume the senator's ministers were responsible for the transfer of the case. This requires a discussion of the members of Congress, including the Party of Independence, as well as its approval for contributions. I get it, so I get it. A senator objected that the matter was taken up in a panel study there, but he wanted to determine whether he was alone on that viewpoint or whether more members of the Independence Party were taking care of the ideas when they consulted the Senate warrant for contributions on the subject. Third, priorities are priorities. Does the senator believe that at this point during the council, this is the matter of Congress or of individual senators who are most important at the end of this session, or do he consider it to be another matter, and could he name a member of the committee, having an urgent purpose in the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u164	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Hjörvar's Helgi asks a great deal about being a moral officer. I believe that one man in the Iceland Board of Directors cannot oversee the rules of ethics. I consider it simply and have often expressed the view that all matters are resolved after the code of ethics has been established. But I don't think so. Human behavior does not resolve by moving into writing. We've got some sort of law columns here. They're moral groups. Let's just respect them. They have been skilled in writing and have had their own coverage. That's my answer to that. What happens at council meetings in the Independence Party I'm not going to discuss here and what the individual senators' position was there, I'm not about it here. As for the priorities of projects, I would like to say that projects do not get any better out of the way so that I can't see that this case went faster than any of the others mentioned here in recent evenings and nights. So I'm not going to judge whether this is the right thing or the wrong priorities. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Of course, it does not mean that what was so secret is whether the Independence Party participated in complete and complete involvement in the search for Fish House or whether there were some who possessed it. There's a reason to thank you. After the discussion entered the council, a senator spoke with him. I think it's natural official information to give whether he was one of the Independence Party members to warn of the plans and speak against them and whether all the rest of the rest of the members of the Independence Party were in this way going against the Fish Office. Since then, I would like to say that it depends on how fast they are going, that we have seen in recent days. [[The president calls.]] This case, I think, is a total non-disciprocation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u166	A respectable president. I wanted to discuss this matter briefly. In 1st. of this, and I found in the few nods I made clear in their speech, and now I want to use the opportunity to discuss the matter in the light of the above - mentioned inscriptions. First, when it comes to the big question of the open clearance contained in the bill for the Minister to determine the location of the institutions, it brings me to my attention in view of the development of events in the winter after this bill was submitted that the greater portion should not make a change in that point. We have seen that the events around the Fish Room have greatly weakened that institution, undermined its professional foundation, and led to its highest level. A minister has ended up pulling back the plans for moving the Agency north into a country that was introduced by a band of hornets and singing in the last summer. At the same time, it has been concluded by the U.S. Marshal's agent that the Minister's decision was reprehensible, and that of course it is a special concern for all of us, since our role here, the Lawgiver, must be to protect the institutions of the State, their ability to carry out their duties, and to protect their legal independence. For example, a report by the II Parliamentary Committee indicates that this is the goal we should make. A respectable president. In view of the greater part, the decision to make a change in the location of public institutions has to be made to observe the rules on the grammatical administration. In this connection, the result of the complaint by the staff of the Fish Room is referred to by the U.S. Marshal's Office. According to an agent's opinion, the declarations and letters of a minister directed to the staff of the Fish House and how it was possible that information was given on this matter to them was not in harmony with careful management practices. A minister should have consulted within the Ministry to see if a special legal authority had been required to transport the headquarters. It is of great interest that in this light, the majority of the item will not be expected to make any changes in this provision. In view of the loss of the share, this opinion is handled well, and the minority concluded that a permit for Ministers to transport institutions themselves without objective support, financial and professional reviews is an abnormal expeditation in the power of the legislatator, and can be taken into consideration. I warned about it in 1st. the issue that men were creating great dangers as to government control and contact with state organizations by agreeing to the open legal authority. It was a risk to the world that the decision would be made by the present administrative element, which, in fact, would be in no way limited by another administrative issue. As a result, there would be little for the community that should be welcomed into a new institution to rejoice that everyone could expect that tenting was only one night. I pointed to and reminded them that the facility to move, Fish Room, had been moved to Hafnarfjörður by the then seafaring minister, which was the Hafnarfjörður, so for the second time in just over ten years, this same administrative body was building up to this institution on the ideal Pipolitan terms. It wasn't even the need for new categories, no, just other members of the same classes of ministers. There is no better way to demonstrate the danger of this treatment and of associating with the institutions of the State. I don't think it's possible that this case will become legal unless there is a change. I believe that it is a fundamental premise in the opinion of the Generals' agent and the procedures of this winter that we agree that if the government body wishes to have authority to transport the institutions in the law they have the authority, it is conditional; it is conditional agreements with the Council; we need to establish a judicial hearing for the transfer of an agency; it must be granted only a few years' notice; and it must take steps so that people are not placed in a position of survival and security. You're right. paritaprevir In a fine article in the Morning newspaper and again in a talk, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason wrote that loss of employment is one of the three most serious challenges people can face over the years, according to experts'opinion. And it is no fun to arrange matters so that people are in a totally defenseless position toward random human decisions in desperate search for votes and human beings are placed in the pathetic position of classing who are disappearing to check for public institutions in desperate hope that they will ensure that they will be elected in key terms. Of course, such misuse of power must be warned, for it is a misuse of power. This is the definition of abuse of power, namely, that a decision is made without material advantages. And it is worth remembering that abuse of power does not necessarily involve making a decision that is illegally made, a choice that is made without the rights of materialistic prerogatives. A respectable president. So it is my suggestion that this case be settled again, called to the committee between the 2nd and the 3rd. and made changes in the design of any means for the development of institutions to result in a social peace. These are some of the successful exports of the institutions into the country, and I take it as a matter of fact, that I do not rule out the export of the stocks into the country or transport of the individual organisations into the country. There are some organizations that have been successful in the country and that have long been involved. I'll just mention one example, the agency I visited last year, the birth stock in the Swampyards, which performs well there, a job that no one needs to have in Reykjavík. That's something you can do about it. It is also a blow to see this same government that claims to be guided by national interests in decision-making institutions such as Fish Houses, then to stand forward and reduce public service in the country, to reduce the work of long-school educated people in the country by convening services in health institutions and in the county, which are wide and wide around the country, and then by means of the dreary project that the government has decided to set up against higher schools in the country. Significantly, high school teachers in the country are likely to be best educated experts in the scattered areas of the country. During these days and these losses, the government in a small mission is on the basis of the scattered settlements. A respectable president. As for the other aspects of this case, I have to say that the committee's opinion of the majority of the committee is quite a mystery to me. For example, a discussion of the strategy of the advisers contains parsus, which includes a thorough criticism of the establishment of independent administrative committees and decision - making committees and which are considered incompatible with 14 pars. The constitution. But the greater part of the section does not have to be modified to reflect the opinions of members of the body. It is also worth referring to the fact that here they are hardworking government ministers, bringing in the straggler of decrees from the European Union, which include the obligation to set up independent decision-making committees and no comment is made on the part of the government's greater part of that process or the introduction of all. It is, in effect, completely incomprehensible to see here a legal concern as to the existence of independent administrative committees and administrative institutions and ruling committees not meeting a constitution, but there is no adjustment made to legalize the Constitution. It is also very strange to see here the portion on morality from the majority of the committees. I'd like to now, by permission of the President, because I've read this earlier in an answer today, get to repeat that reading, because it's a certain literary art, a certain literary genius shown in this text: The Commission stated that in view of experience with the Committee's work, a special legal committee is no longer needed to carry out this role, although it is important to continue to do so, including to ensure that ethical standards develop to the normal level. The majority agree with that and think the change is normal. An electronic study revealed that the majority of the workers consider ethics to be an important factor in their work but that lack the rules of instruction and follow-up. The majority feel that ethics, discussions, and working with them should be an active part of the employment of recruitment and institutions. A respectable president. This too is natural wisdom, style, and physical genius, to include a specific part of the Council's work very important, that is fundamental to being done and to cancel the work of those who are to do this particular work. I wondered earlier tonight if this might be compared to the end of the greater part having ended a complimentary diet in councils and the importance of maintaining a healthy, balanced supply of food, while also suggesting that all the consumers of the Board of Overseers be closed off. It's pretty amazing to see this, because then there's no discussion on the rest of it, there's no adjustment proposal to allow someone else to do this. Now it seems clear that the highest. The prime minister has such faith in his breast condition and in others at the Ministry of Presidency and believes that the Ministers of the Presidency are so relieved of other tasks that they can accept this without being expected in the bill but only in the raising of this attention from the Ministry of Presidency, a point. In cost assessment no additional labour or expert advice is expected to be carried out. Of course, all of us can have great faith in moral strength. While the prime minister and his workers are not aware that they do not provide a theoretical basis for the operating of the Committees or the development and maintenance of ethical rules, which, of course, need both in theory and basis of specialists as well as their cooperation with the same experts with those who are supposed to establish and follow the rules. For example, it is out - of - date that some specialist can be hired to establish a moral code that then exists. It is fundamental that the code of ethics is a living part of the work of the institution and its activities, the workers all know their contents and have come to their own agreement, so that the code of ethics serves the purpose of helping them and supporting them in their work. It is very strange that the greater part should specifically refer to an observational study that the majority of the workers, that is the wording used by the majority, consider ethical rules important in their work, and that they are only complaining about the lack of instruction and follow-up in the rules of rules, and then it is decided to abandon all the educational and follow-up rules, that is the lesson from this study. A respectable president. A few other words can be said about this matter. I only wanted to make one specific subject and to state support with one fresh feature on the bill. It is the idea of a government agency, that an agency within the Ministry can be co-founded but without a direct minister's offer, in other words, that the Agency does not have to exist in a town with due cost but can be part of the Ministry but still perform special tasks. I'd like to now, because I'm a man of intent, suggest that this aspect of the bill be adopted at the General Assembly and that the law of the Council be held at the highest level. Secretary of finance for the next fall, with a new bill on the collapse of the government and its conversion to the Ministry, he votes. That arrangement may be a better solution to the problems of the highest. The financier with the Bank Office, but the ridiculous idea he's put in the bill, simply lay down the bank office and put it in one room in the Ministry of finance. In the past few weeks, we have seen that the president of the State's Bankament has informed us about the financial minister and secretary - general's authority to influence the government in a financial enterprise. We get information about this scenario because there are two different units, because the banking agency is an independent phenomenon and it needs to be consulted and consulted and discussed with it in terms of certain physical rules. If the highest. The minister of finance would have carried out his riots, which are found in the bill on the collapse of the Bank County, well, then the nation would never have been informed of these conversations. They would've just happened because the Ministry director was both at the department manager's checkup on the financial market and the office's secretary for ownership. And he would never have had to talk to anyone but merely to himself to share a message with them. Therefore, the idea of government agencies may be a reasonable way in which to ensure the length of various tasks from the political authority, without the need to set up specific organizations in a town for the task, since this interaction is, of course, clear and communicates between institutions, even though it occurs between rooms at once and the same Ministry. And that is the advantage of the ideologies presented here in this Ministry Department bill. Therefore, I would like to stress that there is a change I think to look back on. We need to recognize that there is no benefit in creating a very small number of institutions, including both costs, expenses, and costs of living up to common benefits, as well as the minimizing of administrative costs. However, there may be a fundamental reason to keep activities separate from the problems facing them, since the problem is, of course, that with non-political tasks, such as financial management decisions, they will not be separated from the political authority if they are placed on the other side of the Ministry. There is no way to write, as in the bill on the collapse of the Bankis County, any worded text that, of course, will be respected, because there is nothing that can be done when the minister has authority under the scope of his own authority. He can't choose to use an arm length, it's not possible for him no matter how good he or she is and smart. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion, and I'm going to make these comments to the bill enough, but I'm going to reiterate that the general authority on the transfer of the institutions, as irreprehensible as it is in the bill and as uncertain as it comes out of the treatment of the Committee, is utterly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is an excellent and illuminating speaker. I'd like to ask him, because he's chairman of the United States, into words as supreme. During the last term, the prime minister, in May 2011, had just discussed changes in the Council of Government and a proposal that was then discussed in the council. That's when they gave it to the top. Those words fall on the part of the prime minister. A senator, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, with permission of presidents: To promote a little inconsistencies into all this discussion of reconciliation, solidarity, and cooperation, I do so that my proposal here at the General Assembly would agree that working together with the changes to the Management Board, changes to the strategy of recruitment, aimed at increasing specialisation so that expertise will be sufficient to deal with the big tasks that will be expected to take care of the next loss and years and so that the Ministry and Organization will become a service to the public. If we could agree to be guided by these two factors, in contrast with creating this professional strength of counselors, making them ready to handle the technical tasks that the Ministry needs to care for, and on the other hand, we have a good starting point. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's years of cooperation in the spirit of the reconciliation, solidarity, and cooperation of the highest degree. During his last term, the prime minister spoke of his being a senator. How does cooperation manifest itself? A senator? Is there a viewpoint on this matter? V.E.G. The prime minister also said in his speech, with permission of the president: It is so important when these changes are made that people generally agree on them. They need to keep their values out of the picture of who is in the government at any given time. It became classic as soon as it was said, but I'd like to ask about the cooperation that took place on the suggestions I mentioned here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u168	A respectable president. I thank you for the question and the answer is now that no consultation has been made with the management stand for this bill. What is more about the transfer of Fish Service was expressed to me by members of the board that the matter had never been discussed in the Independence Party, never before it was officially introduced. As far as I could understand, it was not presented in the government of the group's body members before the Ministers of the Assembly, Prime Minister and High Priests presented it. But I want to, to make a good offer, thank you. A senator for recalling those words because I find them to be good and reasonable. And they may be something in the spirit of what I suggested earlier, that there could be a solidarity of a change in 1 st par. The bill on this open authority to transport institutions in a way that requires that the council establish such a move, and it would in some way endeavor to create a parapolitic solidarity for such a transfer. I firmly believe it's all right to move institutions to shore if the subject recommends it and a practical argument recommends it. But it has to be in agreement and cooperation with staff, and it must be done so that we are not creating the threat of moving abroad every few years, since the staff of Fish Labs are in the position that they were moved by an independent party and a forward party to Hafnarfjörður 2003 for idealistic reasons and were now to move back to Akureyri 2015 by government in the same category for the U.S.A. For example, where does the shoe squeeze for the head of the Foreign Legion and the Independence Party, perhaps so badly for the nation, that they will come back in 2027 C.E.? [[The president calls.]] Would that mean that the Fish Room would have been brought something else, to the Hornground?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u169	Madam President. Of course, they are the highest speeches. During the last term, the prime minister gave about this matter - I did it to play today while I listened to this discussion about going through speeches at the highest level. Prime Minister in the last term. It is a ridiculed reading, an amazing reader of what you see here. Of course, it shows what kind of charlatan was in the last term. The need for consultation and the need to do so in a different way, and then come in here with a bill and act twice as bad as those who criticized them during the last term. Of course, it is tragic to witness this, and I encourage everyone to go into the Generals' Web site and find talks at the top. The prime minister on this matter did research on the exact same information during his last term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u170	A respectable president. I appreciate the tip, and I sure will. I'd like to say, though, that I think it's the highest. The prime minister criticized during his last term that was not entirely correct, i.e. that I think a government at any given time should have considerable scope for the internal administration of the Council of Government, should be able to determine the transfer of issues between advisers, although it seems that when culture is divided into cultural culture and non-national culture, it is the basis for the government to have much room for such changes. But government agencies that perform services for the general public are anything but Kanseli. There is a matter of fact that the Ministry itself, who serve political power and who work thereafter, has great control, but the institutions do not have the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u171	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I would like to ask the senator only about the factors of the bill that are involved in the mobility of workers within the administration, and then perhaps primarily in terms of the comments made by the Union of Colleges and BSRBs, in view of the position that exists in the relations of academics with the state of state policy now and the fact that in the reviews of the Union, by the permission of the President, from the League of college: In all of the above references, BHM strongly opposes the bill, and it reiterates that the power transfer involved in the bill is in much disproportionate to the social views that have existed in recent years to support the jurisdiction and the World Council. BSRB says, with president's permission: Thus, the required change in the law of No. 115/2011, of the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, regarding the legal rights of Ministers to determine the establishment of the institutions under his authority and the law of No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the state's personnel for the general authority to transfer government officials to their jobs, thus avoiding advertising on vacancies. These two major alliances of government employees, BHM and BSRB, are discussed with this particular factor. The majority decide that it is right to support the bill anyway. On May 5, 2015, in the middle of a failed partner in BHM, the nominee is proposed. So I want to ask you why. The senator what kind of contribution he considers this to be an opinion of the committee, and this part of the program is involved in an ongoing conversation with the academics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u172	A respectable president. Thank you. The question was noticed by a member of the Parliament, and this was precisely noted in the study of the majority of the section. This is of great interest, for the majority of the parts refer to the viewpoints presented and all fall against this diffusion of the source, but they conclude that it should be done on the basis of two. On one hand, if an employee moves from one job to another, the job he was in is due to be fully advertised and, on the other, allowed to transfer government officials from state to state from state to state and from 2011 experience with the sources. On these two things, I have serious doubts. Regarding the first, that if a person is transferred to the point of releasing a second job that needs to be advertised, it is that there has certainly been a provision from the Republic and the last few years, but this government has been extending it to avoid advertising activities. V.E.G. the local Minister of Internal Affairs Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir appointed the current police officer in the capital area with a transfer from work despite the lack of the job of the sheriff of the capital area. My question here at the council answered. The minister, having done this on the basis of transport authority, pointed out that I had even given this service to the Ministry as soon as the minister transferred the chief of the Ministry when I was a social minister. At that time, men were being transferred from office to office, so they were changing their chairs. There are many examples of being used in this way. But the government has been taking advantage of this authority to get away from the advertisement. I have to say, as it is, that I have a very clear view that it is wise to make room for anyone to move along, but I also notice what the unions of public employees say, that it is difficult for those who are at work to deny that they are moving. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u173	Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to ask you about another aspect of the bill in a second answer, and it's about the legalization of the Ministers Committee. According to the bill, it is assumed that the Ministers' Committees on State and Economic Affairs and, according to a consideration of the individual articles of the bill, there is a reference to the centrality of a report by the General Commission that highlights the importance of cooperation and information flow across the Ministry. I want to ask you why. A senator's assessment of the administrative status of these Ministerial Committees, i.e. that, to the government we live in, where the government of Iceland is not a multi-organized government and each minister is really the final authority in his trade, who is then, according to the approval of this bill, the administrative position of the decisions taken at the scene of such ministers as it is not handled in a specific and specific way in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u174	A respectable president. It was such an intelligent question that I doubt that if I am all I want to do, I will have one minute answer. However, I'm going to mention that a report by the Aldus Research Committee suggests that if the Ministers detect anything in the formality of their authority to address them, they will create information distribution at the Commission meeting of activities. I've been on both the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs and the Minister's Committee on State Money, and I think it's very reasonable that they are there, but I agree to explain the need for a legal office if the person taking the authority may not take action that the two or three would be needed to take action. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I think there is a need to develop it better in both governance legislation and possibly a change in government laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u175	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with what was going on in this last exchange on the fact that there are many things that were uninformed and unclear about the Ministers and their legalisations. This is one aspect of the bill that needs a much better look at. I thought it was a good argument. The senator, when he went along with what is stated in the majority of the administration and monitoring committees on the so-called ethic committees, is considered to be men's work and actions and then cancels them in their motions of changing the law. But what I really wanted is to ask about what I wish for. A member of the council to bring the matter back to a committee after the end of the 2nd. I draw attention to it. paritaprevir A similar request was made here today by the Steinunn Árnadóttir of the Year's daughter. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Páll Árnason, whatever he believes, is particularly needed to take over the Administrative Board. Now, according to Congress law, one senator wishes that the case be passed on to a committee after 2rd. this should be done. But even without it, I naturally feel that such a request will be made. The Board of Directors and Control has given the issue a very good discussion and a clear position, but we have yet to bring up a number of issues during this discussion, even though it may be late in the evening, and the reason for the committee to pay attention, this last feature regarding the Ministerial Committees, for example. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A member of the council feels the need to lie down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u176	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator, chairman of the Commission and Commission, is acting as chairman of the Committee to monitor the discussion and to determine how the committee can further improve the bill. I thought it was important to one. The bill would continue to be developed in order to ensure that no conditional and unlimited access would be given to a minister to determine the location of the institutions but would be added to some process. For example, I could imagine that conditions would need to be understood that such transfers could not take place for at least four years later or something like that, and thus he would act in stages. At the same time, it would be possible to predict that a political arrangement would be proposed for the application of that authority, allowing for a judicial arrangement to be introduced. It would have to have been done for economic purposes and cost analysis, so that, first of all, the matter would be done openly, it would come to the council, and then the staff would have four years to adapt to these facts. I think it's a minimum requirement. There can be no success, and the Fish Room is such a terrible warning light that the institution was transferred to the Hafnarfjörður government of the Independence Party and the 2003 Foreign Forces for idealistic purposes, and then again it is acceptable to contend with it now 12 years later. As I told you before, if the nation is so unfortunate that they will be classed again in the 2027 government, where will they be sent? And 2039? Is this so every 12 years, or even less, that people feel that it is only possible to check people this way without material support, without cost analysis, without any, the same sort of government? I thought it was very important to build a parapolitic partnership for such a move, so that a new government will also be committed to maintaining the Agency in this location. Then the rural communities that oppose such an organization could really expect it to be, build around it, enable people to move effectively, provide them with school space, day - care, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u177	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a very clear answer. We have the most advanced members of the council, and other tips have been made here. I see a reason to stress that we're on the minority issue of the Directorate-County Committee of the Administrative Board don't object to any movement, we don't object to compromise in the administration, we would like to contribute to that. However, we want to see clear and set rules there. I agree with what was said in a case. A senator when specifically mentioning the financial and grammatical basis for making changes, whether by transfer of institutions or by other means.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's reaction to my speech. I think it's very important that we don't eliminate the possibility that agencies are exported to shore, that can be a matter of fact. But if that's the case and the idea of moving doesn't tolerate daylight, if it's such a thing that it doesn't tolerate cost analysis, if it doesn't tolerate material discussion, if it can't stand discussion here at the council, if it doesn't tolerate a few years' notices and politics after the election, then it's not good enough, then it's just not good enough. Let us make sure that decisions that are not made well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u179	Madam President. We'll talk about a change in the government law when it's time to walk 12. It's a little strange to be talking about such a matter into the night, but that's the way it is. I also find that this case is a little strange to me when we get past the work programme, that we are working on this case as if it were not a great pressure to complete when one of the great issues in this case, the secretary's permission to move the organisations without serving it under the General Assembly, to validate such authority when a minister has drawn into a country with his plans for the transport of the Fish Office, at least The original plans to move that organization with you and a mouse to Akureyri. Now it's got the highest. A secretary has moved to the country, so the Agency staff are not required to move. Only the director of the Agency will move to Akureyri. V.E.G. In fact, a minister does not abandon the case, but he intends to do so in a way that differed from the original plans. I think that's well, and I'll come in later on in my talk on my attitude toward the export of public institutions to the country and in what way it is best to strengthen the work of public citizens in the country and to increase the number of jobs in the public sector. What I was primarily going to trace from this bill is the secretary's authority to determine the location of the institutions. These are proposed to make changes in the Council of Control, which aims to increase the flexibility of the European Commission in organising jobs. The office must be set up within the Ministry and the Ministry's Office, and it is seen to unite the government's business with the individual administrations that receive the office of the Ministry but not to become a special government government authority. This is reflected in the Committee's opinion of the less important site in each institution, more often than not taking root in certain areas. It also applies to the staff. Every institution, primarily the man - made thing on which it belongs, the things on which it is built, the man - made creature that has grown and thrived within it. Another view exists when a new organization is being completely established. There is a greater chance for humans to locate it elsewhere, but new institutions are more often than not placed in the capital area. I believe that there is a need to be based on grammatical reasoning, which is exactly equal when it comes to saying that some institution cannot be found in the country, but it must also be based on objective logic. By bringing this authority to the minister, we are strengthening the European Commission at the cost of the legislature and I think it's very bad and really not good for the task I think is very important, that we are working to expand our public jobs across the country. There has been a great tendency that political winds will blow each one's mind on the location of institutions. I don't think it healthy and not democratic or normal when we look at how we want to build up Iceland's infrastructure, if we look over the whole country, that it should be under Ministership and random to where some institutions or projects and branches are going. I think it's very normal that there's talk in various fields, such as those in the community plan and the graffiti. There should not be just the executive's office at any time, with the minister in question. I think it's a bigger decision than that it should be focused on, and it doesn't consider the matter to be an advantage, to promote the growth of public jobs in the country, that a minister will sit on this decision, or whether an institution is located in the country or not. The great debate over the Fish Room has put an ugly spot on the struggle that may have been primarily in the regional councils, but fortunately we also have many hawks in the corner of the capital area that understand that there is no physical laws that all institutions are in the capital area, far from now on, and I don't talk about when technology offers good communication from distances to distances, and there is much more to flow between institutions from location. The construction of the land has paid the highest price for finding jobs when branch offices in the capital area have set down in the country, more than one or at most two jobs. It is so easy to take them back without a particularly unscrupulous blow within these walls. People in their professions may not necessarily have strong warnings at the General Assembly, and such individuals may also drift away from the local community and have to uproot themselves and their families. Let us not forget that. Therefore, I think it is very important to seek all the ways of this discussion in the General Assembly, to put it in a professional direction, and to make the move, whether he is from Reykjavík or from Reykjavík to Reykjavík, to get a financial and professional discussion, and to argue that it is not a random one. I don't think that there should be a law that all institutions should be placed in the capital area, and the rest must be placed in particular, i.e. if they are located elsewhere. The rights of the staff, professional factors, costs, and other factors must always be considered when discussing this large issue. Congress officials have introduced a ministry that was at one time under a project that reminds me that it was called public employment without location. Their expectations were high, and they carried out a number of jobs. I think the trend is the same in all parts of the country, and you hear the same stories from members of the council of other votes that know well. I know better in my own district, especially in the West, and there's an eternal fight in the budgets of each year at the General Assembly and also a battle where agencies do not have to carry out any particular terms of how they manage their services between branch offices. This is an eternal battle between rural society and rural governments in order to keep one work here and one activity there. Therefore, it is not unusual for the urban areas where nuclear areas are looking to have institutions that are supported and more staff than one or two to build around them and that academics can have the opportunity to settle in these areas. It's already a multiple effect. Therefore, it is not unusual for a team's competitiveness to receive public activity as well as private and job development in this way because it is often more stable when it succeeds. We have many examples that have succeeded in doing such things perfectly. The Senators have put it into words that employment insurance is on Skagga Beach, the office of the Food Orofs Fund on the Ummbourg and the Forest Farms in the Shire. We know of Iceland's soil readings at Acliní, and from the Supreme Court, this activity has prospered greatly there. A building agency is in a sheep's jar, and this would continue to be the case. When someone tries to take over the Ministership as it is in this bill, it sets up a bad reputation for the growth of public jobs in the country as well as for the communities who want to strengthen the foundations of their community's economy when offering to receive institutions, tasks, or activities, whatever that may be, when men are doing so gravely as they were at the time of the highest level. Marine and agricultural ministers were going by hand to move the Fish Room to Akureyri. I say, as it has been said here, I don't believe that these institutions, whether it's a Fish Room or some smaller institutions, can have a legal home in places other than the capital area, and here is the powerful branch that performs the service that, of course, is where the greatest number of people live. This can work on both sides, and of course, some of the key institutions are the product of nature in the capital area. At times, it seems to me that if there are any changes, this is a physical law. I feel that there's a difference between how this is worked out and who's making that decision. There are many things to do if you want to do it well. I don't think it's allowed to be forgotten in this discussion. There are also other factors, and one of the things that have been discussed with the ethic committee, that it will be put down and inserted into the Ministry of Presidency. I just don't think that's what people are going to do. The Compatibility Committee has been working on moral standards for the administrations, and I believe it is very important for our community, which is at a critical milestone where public trust in government is restored, I do not speak of the Generals and these institutions, which, unfortunately, have fallen heavily in trust. We're working out what we have to do as a community and it's decided to stir it like this. There seems to be plenty of work to be done by this co-ordination committee, which makes a number of people from different angles. They're talking about the Ministry of Presidency taking on this project, and I'm just asking, "What drawer is it supposed to be saved in the Ministry of Presidency? I don't think there's any evidence to support this, as indicated by the members of my section, and there's nothing clear what people intend to do with these changes except that this co-ordination committee was set in place during the last term and it's the highest level. A government to continue with a work established by the former government, with only a great purpose, and is one of the tools we need to restore trust in the community. Finally, I'd like to say that in some respects, it's perfectly natural for me to work on this matter of flexibility in recruitment and other institutions under the board that humans have a degree of flexibility, although the rights and responsibilities of the staff always have to work hard in this regard. I'm afraid of what is presented here, that it is suggested that the State's rights and duties should improve the authority to transfer personnel from the government without being published for application. I find this dangerous, since we always insist on increasing transparency, that there is no gang members on the road, and the most qualified people get jobs at the government. Of course, there's a rule all over the world, and I'm not happy enough with what it's going to mean for employees' rights in the public sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u180	A respectable president. This issue is not about whether all the government agencies are correctly located in Reykjavík or not. In fact, this issue is about who to decide and how to determine where the institutions should be located. What we're considering here is, in effect, the end of one of the many political failures of the Future Party during this season. When people first discussed the transport of the Fish Room, the candidates of the Agency were convinced that there was no need for a change, no need for special coverage at the council, or that it would be necessary to have official authority to transport organizations in this way. What we're dealing with right now is proof that they've figured it out, or someone has told them that it doesn't seem right, that there has to be a legal basis for that. That's why these legislations have been built on Iceland's Council of Directors for Ministers in order to transfer organizations one - sided somewhere other than where they are or where they decide their location. So I think everyone agrees that it's not a law that agencies should be in Reykjavík. This issue is based on how we decide to do this, whether it is an open and democratic procedure at the Generals' scene, in the form of a change of law, a judicial decision, or something like that. Is this not the right thing to understand? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u181	Madam President. Yes, we can agree on that. I just thought it should be a good idea to cover it well and to emphasize that nothing in our language, which criticized this bill, is about us opposing that organizations can be located elsewhere than in the capital area. In the case of this discussion, it can often be misunderstood that a person is above his head only to go to Akureyri, and enough is due to the failure of any activity in the capital area, if he is to move something around here, but when the work runs, without any notice, from the country to the capital area, he will not hear a sound of the members of the council, whether it is the capital or the country's settlement. I just think it's time to underline this. As I said here earlier, I am a regional senator who is highly critical of this management. A sea chief minister, for he has put on this evil face, and such things are not meant to be done. It should be prepared well and done in a democratic way by personnel and at the General in-house working room. There is no law that says that the transfer of some to capital or vice versa cannot be considered. All you have to do is work at the right person's scene and keep in mind that you're not taking a shortcut like the ultimate. A minister intends to do so. I'd like to underscore in this discussion that we're critical of how this is going to work, and that's my criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u182	President. I think, so you come to the highest. To defend the seaman, his main failure in this case was to make a decision as supreme. Prime Minister announces in the media, rashly, impulsively, and without having considered the matter properly. They have become quite many of those in the highest part of the world. Whether this is an intervention strengthens or transfers to police districts or location, the prime minister takes the authority to decide all kinds of things that he thinks he can decide. That's what's at the top. In this case, a sea chief minister is guilty, and the vice president of the advance party is trying to make the political reality statement the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. He has then admitted that it was a mistake, and no one can escape learning from his mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u183	Madam President. Pre-election parties submit their policies. A policy list of groups may be contributing to the expansion of public work in the country and to the export of public projects into the country or to the transport of the strains that should be the same in the country. They are walking in their own counsel, each one on his own. But when it comes to power, you have to face the fact that they have to do what they're supposed to do, whether to the Lawgiver or to the staff. You can't escape this by putting your head on the ground and just going to knock things through and really ruin working on moving and increasing public activity in the country. That's how I think it's the highest. Sadly, the prime minister has destroyed the task.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u184	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in particular about VI. section of the Council of Control, on moral standards for the operation of the European Commission and the changes the bill will bring. In 24 C.E. Article, which will remain unchanged, says that the prime minister confirmed the rules of ethics for the management board of Iceland, as well as for 2 mg. that the government accept the Code for Ministers. I noticed during the discussion on this subject one, two weeks ago that when the prime minister was asked about these things, he replied: "Yes, this code of ethics is somehow for reference. So I don't like it that much when I look back at 25. The law to make a big difference in how it's going to be exactly so that the rules somehow turn into a reference to ◯. But the goal is 25 percent. as she is now and as she was approved during her last term is to be maintained. The natural purpose of this is to reduce corruption and further support to the rulers, said a minister of the cohesion committee for three years at the same time. It consists of seven men, an officer without a appointment, a representative of the management board of state institutions, a representative of the government's personnel business, two representatives of the Association of Government Services, and two are based on expertise in administrative and ethical matters. What is this seven - man government to do? It is to provide advice on interest issues and corruption, guidance on rules and counseling on these factors, education, academic research. It should be consistent with the indications of corruption, etc., sharing in partnerships, institutions and offices of the country and abroad that work against corruption in the public sector, etc. The whole point is to assume that the Ministry of Presidency is giving governments advice on interpretation of the rules of ethics and is for instruction within the Board of Directors and then will continue to observe until they have achieved their purpose. That's all. All 25. I'm gonna fall out, and this is going to be left behind. I just want to hear a response. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u185	Madam President. I just think it's really sad. Prime Minister choose to wipe out this work in this way. It's a work done during the last term that I feel that everyone can agree to being good and very needed, as it were. A senator was a good shaver. Here's a suggestion to drop 25. The law that deals with co-ordination committees, but that the Ministry of Presidency accepts her assignment. First, there is nothing to argue that this is done or that it will change. I believe that this is where the nation, perhaps not the finger but so close, by doing this when it is called out everywhere in society that moral standards are held everywhere in the public sector, that ethics are governed by the standards of common sense, whether it is for us members of Congress, counsellers or in the administrations, that everywhere these criteria are to be looked at, though it is possible to say that everyone should use common sense, it is only very good to have such rules as a rule to work after. This makes communication easier to communicate with and within institutions when such processes are available, and there is a much less likely to be a problem. We have just so many examples that these issues have not been right enough, and we really needed a community to raise higher standards of morality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u186	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. What's happening there in this bill is more power compression into the centre, more power to minister, to prime minister, not just with regard to the code of ethics, but in general about decision-making of the state, etc. It's something people don't want to see. They do not want to see this sense of authority. So there is no confidence that ministers or no matter who they are, those who use the power will handle it on their own, and that there is something very strong that we see in society, i.e. that power be scattered, that it is not abused, and that it is granted. My stepfather was a colonel of the U.S. Army. Sometime after reading a lot of Noam Chomsky and about the U.S. foreign policy, which is rather bloody, I asked him: "Do you really believe that the President of the United States can't be corrupted? He said, 'No, they know the papple.' No, they educate these people. It is common sense. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]] No, education and being reasonable is not enough to stop corruption. [[The president calls.]] One thing that helps is to monitor a professional who is being eliminated from the law now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u187	Madam President. Depravity is cunning, sliding behind humans, as is the common people, organizations, and governments as well as everywhere. One thing that humans have done in civilized communities in an effort to prevent corruption is to keep track of them. What did that government's governmental covenant stand for? To reduce monitoring. Is that really good? To try to draw to himself the greatest power and to gather it together in the few hands and on the hands of one minister, as shown in this bill regarding the transfer of the institutions, I feel very dictatorial and very dangerous for our community. In the great protests here in the East, it has been shown that humans are opposed to the compression of power and authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u188	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent midnight talk and interesting viewpoint. I noticed that the senator wanted to emphasize that she believed that she would be an option to take government agencies ashore, and I think there are many who agree on that. Of course, she is particularly familiar with her own district, the Northwestern district, and I would like to introduce her to her according to her attitude toward the ideas that have been introduced by one of the Tamivenian commissions, I think, to move in amongst the others. If I know the right of this, and if she can see certain institutions that would be better off on the coast or in the Westland, in the old West Country, whether there are other institutions, either designated institutions, or a type of organization that she believes can be moved in such a way or what she has in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u189	Madam President. Hv. A senator would call for my wish list if I were a minister and would have the authority to decide which institutions were going into my district. I'm not gonna get drunk like that. A senator puts in front of me, but I'd like to say that institutions linked to relevant employment areas could be at home. Happily, there are still powerful fishing roads, and much has grown and thrived around it, many deceptive companies, and secondary activities that have developed around them, and some marine institutions, in that area, could have a place, or a much more efficient branch location, where they live today. In a Western country, such projects could be handled, and the northern part of the West is, of course, mixed with marine exports and agricultural areas, where various projects can be taken care of. I'll say, for example, "Hampgga." Now there's work on farms or agricultural calculations that are being moved to the Food Agency, and I could imagine that the task could be saved in the Sakmbourg area, for example. But all of this needs to be examined in a democratic way at the General Assembly and not be shy about it. I'm bored with this pool of ground on both sides, and there's always talk of a ball of opportunity if you look forward to building a more diverse industry in the public country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u190	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the Parliament encourages us not to be shy about this, but it is a little too early to name an institution worthy of our own district. I wondered, " Is that not because it is a bad way of achieving the goals described by the senator? ' It is a much better method for carrying out a particular assignment, allowing people to do certain tasks, promote branch offices, etc., than any other one. But there is still an opportunity to describe the wishes for the district. The midnight is a long time, my dear. A senator, and I'm sure it's for luck on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-02-117.u191	Madam President. I felt that I was now well - aware of the type and type of operation that could take place in my district. I think there's room for institutions there, it's time to take a closer look at them, and then, of course, the soil that represents a variety of activities is important and I think it's there. I don't think it should be determined on each of the Minister's table at each time with some political reform, as I've established it, but should discuss it in a democratic way at the General Assembly and communicate with each other. But I also don't want the country to have just some branch office and some one or two men's activities. [[The president calls.]] It can also include government institutions and branch offices here in the capital.
