ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u1	Borist has received a letter from the United States Parliamentary chairman of Helgi Hjörvar of the 5th. Witchest. "The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, can't stand to be a senator in the near future. Today, therefore, is the seat of the 1st deputy of the United States Company's campaign in the district of Ólína Þorvarðardóttir. Ólína the past, Þorvarðardóttir has taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u2	The president wants to propose that the votes be at hand. 1330 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u3	A respectable president. I see it my duty to draw attention to this morning's employment committee that a verbal adjustment proposal to a frame plan, a practical approach and protection plan was put in place, i.e. The Parliament's decree for the Council on Implementation of Whales. This proposal was oral only, to add four terms to the synoptic proposals, four, in lower part Tubular wounds two positive plus Hagwater activation and Skroga. I don't even think this is happening. It's not even part of the job committee and it's just some kind of blowout at the end. There is not even a formalized adjustment proposal for the majority of the Committee on these items but this should only be oral, and these four benefits should be sent in a reporting process. What's going on? Is this a good way to work? Is it not reasonable that the minister of the local seminary deals with the situation and provides adjustments in this priming if there is such a hurry and will completely ignore the task management and the suggestions it provides? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u4	A respectable president. Because of the words we just passed away. paritaprevir I'd like to say that Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir did not present this proposal with any wind-up on the job board this morning, as described here. It was simply suggested that the majority of the committee consider four activation options in addition to the existing Senate resolution. We feel that we are fully applying the laws on the framework and the roles of the project management there. The mission board has made a suggestion to the Minister. It is assumed that if a minister changes the proposal of a project administration, which is in accordance with the law of counsel for a minister of this, it will be followed in a perfunctory procedure so that we believe that the normal practices in the field of practice that are normally employed here are in the process of changing proposals. They're not specifically told, but in this case, we do so, and that was just a decision this morning. We made a suggestion that four additional benefits be considered, with the goal of putting them on a novelty party, and a deadline was made until mid - February in this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u5	A respectable president. On November 23, what happened? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, so that eight benefits would be taken to a colony. That day has later come the name Jón, the son of Gunnarsson, because he was in all the media of the country, and then there was nothing about these plans until now. A senator has decided to reduce the number of activation options by half, to four. This is to say that there are clearly laws on structure, protection, and utilisation. It is the task of a minister, with the exception of a project manager's opinion, to suggest a transfer of priming ideas. One of the advantages as long as possible. A senator seems to suggest in an oral way, which is extremely unusual, has not been decommissioned by a project management, Hagwater activation. [[The president calls.]] So at least in two ways, this is clearly the law on a Framework Programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u6	A respectable president. By law, land shall be inhabited. Here, however, a great deal of shame is on the side of the part of the dog. In this regard it is clearly being violated by local law. The General Act was given on how to make a decision on the continuum transfunctioner issues in an effort to reduce the decades of debates that have divided the nation into these issues and to try to create peace, both on the operating functions and on nature protection in the country. It's just a matter of blowing up the content. I demand that the Council's Presidency Committee be called together to review these exercises. It is clearly against the law's requirements to act in this way. Of course, the greater part can change the law, but it must be presented, transferred, and carried through three discussions, not trying to turn it between spontaneous discussion and without having a subject on the agenda of such important decisions as what is really going to happen. [[The president calls.]] It will never be successful. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u7	A respectable president. I must agree with what has been said here on the side of the government on this matter. I hope that a respectable president will respond in a comparable way to what he did when this case came into the winter, where the government had not allowed such tactics to be offered, and the president agreeed that the case was not further. Also, reducing the activation options from eight to four is not an acceptable method, as has been attributed here, and does not pass the laws of the Framework Programme. So I ask for a respectable president, and I join with what? paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar to the Prime Committee meeting on this matter. You cannot be offered to do this and to work in a frame plan. Here's the Senate too, i.e. the Council's work. V.E.G. The president has spoken of peace and well spoken of it, and this does not result in making peace over the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u8	A respectable president. It is being suggested that the employment committee does not legalize their proposals. The Act on Framework states that a task management committee to a minister of this legal body is directed by the task management committee. The task management suggests that a minister of activation options and how they should be arranged. In this case, the task management proposed a single priming option for a innovation class. If a minister wants to change that, he needs to send it for a review. He's sending it to the council. If it had been the will of the Lawgiver's own time when the Law on Framework, Protection, and Use was set, then why didn't the procedure stop there, and the decision lay by the minister? If the council could not handle the case, where the case is repeated, all interviews taken, if the council had nothing to do with this, why were the case being sent to the council, if it was the law's will that the council should stamp the matter as a result of the Ministry of these matters? [[The president calls.]] I refuse that we are disrupting people's composure. Of course, this is a delicate matter. [[The president calls.]] We send it out as a review, and then the trial will determine how these activation options will be adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u9	A respectable president. Of course, it is a serious concern when representatives of the board believe that the rules of play are virtual, not reality. It had come to pass well, though, that before fighting, it was settled, regarding the rules of the procedure in this matter. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, reduced the priming options he feels should be changed and put in use from eight to four, that is a bit different but not a sum of money. The break-in is one and the same, i.e. To break the peace of the word and to fail to observe rules of conduct. There is a serious concern for anyone who can call himself a democrat and a member of the council. Of course, a prime committee must be called together to review this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u10	President. It's amazing that we're back in this place. In view of what is going on here, I request that there be a meeting break, and the council members come together to discuss this new position. It was clear that if the matter came in this way again, the whole council and society would be upset. Now we've reached that place. How will the president handle this situation? Are we here for discussions about the conference board or are we going to have a meeting with members of the House and the presiding committee, and we're going to review these matters right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u11	While the president does not consider a reason to interrupt this meeting, it is reasonable to conclude that these matters will later be discussed when there is an opportunity and in no length of time, both at the site of the presiding committee and members of the council. Neither council presidents nor prime committees can step in front of the committee. It has only been decided by the majority of its decision to send this adjustment or this idea, however it is now said, for comment, but no decision has been made on how the matter will otherwise be given Congress treatment. In addition, attention must be made to the fact that the council is designed to make adjustments in the matter of Congress and that it is the opinion of the chairman of the council here that, of course, there is very much leeway.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u12	A respectable president. I've got to make some heavy comments in my interpretation. A president and his comments on this series of events. This issue is not merely dependent on routine therapy, nor is it simply substantiated by the majority of committees. There's a special law on the procedure like this. There's a code on this. There are laws on how to change activation options and bring them between classes, specific laws on how to do this. And the law says that a minister should make proposals for new activation options based on the Commission's proposal and not the head of the Committee, so it's a law-breaker. There is a minister who is to make this suggestion, and he is to put it in a review procedure and thereafter she is to enter the council. [[The president calls.]] Then there is another legal offense that there is a prime option that most of the Committee is going to suggest to a novelty class that the project management has not completed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So this is a legal case, and what does the head of the council do when the Chairman of the Committee and the majority of the committees break the law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u13	A respectable president. It must be acknowledged that this is not the standard treatment of this matter. In the case we discuss here, there is a synopsis in which a previous arrangement was made. the issue is over. There is one issue between the matter and the question. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson chooses not to change his subject. He gives four additional activation options to those who were here to discuss the first round of the matter. On both occasions when he decides to do this, he does so without putting the matter on the committee's agenda, without having it available, but he considers it to be such a small matter that it can only be smuggled between the panels somehow and removed in three or four minutes. We must make serious comments on this and insist that there be a recession, the Presidency committee reviews this case, and the chairmans of a congregation meeting on it with a president. It is totally unacceptable to do this in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u14	The President intends to announce a meeting on the Presidency Committee and with members of the council in lunchtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u15	A respectable president. I'm very sorry when someone finds out about some sort of deal that's broken. It undermines trust, and it undermines the possibility of ever coming to an agreement on anything. This is one of the biggest bits in Icelandic debates, and how happy it was that some conclusion had been reached! It is totally pathetic that the arrangements and decisions made by the council are now being betrayed. I agree with the words of those who suggest that there be a break in meetings and have a congregation meeting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u16	A respectable president. There are two things I want to mention in this relationship, first of all, the work force. The second factor is that more than a part of a professional committee or the chairman himself comes in the back door with this case. It has not been part of the meeting, and in the smaller parts, we have not been given room to express or consider because the change in the motion of a so - called person has not come into play. We do not know exactly what this is all about. It's some idea, like the highest. The president mentioned, and I wondered, " What is the idea of a story story? ' What's the idea? What are its advantages and weaknesses? What Is the Reason for It? That's not in the way. I don't see how the council can handle this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u17	A respectable president. I'd also like to know if it was a rule, and it's possible to put ideas in the envelopes in general. Is this the type of work we're supposed to do at the Council? Hv. The head of the professional car board puts it up, and should we follow in his footsteps and present various ideas and put them in a review process? Such suggestions need to have a legal position. Trying to get this in the back door is different, considering the reactions that became November 27, when more than a part of the employment committee suggested a rude suggestion to add to a total of eight activation options proposed without having to go through a project management. The General has to stop this nonsense before it gets to some end of the deal. It is not acceptable, as has sometimes been said from this public address for a reason. The General Assembly to implement this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u18	Mr. President. It seems that many of these days are in a special competitive race to create the most war in the environment. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has taken up the task of serving as General of the Warfare. During the same days, land induction is trying to stuff one 25 activation option into the work of a frame plan, including many of the reservations that the energy companies have not even asked to be evaluated, and the Vega and Landsnet to try to launch by high - tension lines and the built - up road of explosion sand. They do not look so peacefully. Of course, regarding the legal situation of this case, the Council can change the laws it has set, as it were, and through three discussions, but the Council cannot set aside clear standards of existing law and ignore them by resolution. Are we going to agree to a conquistador proposal tomorrow that the basic school law doesn't work and we're going to ignore it? Of course, all humans see that such compromises are not the standard practice of the Generals, and they fail to resist. [[The president calls.]] It's just that way. If a person wants to have it so that the People of the Council will make a very personal decision on these matters, he or she should first have a law on it. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u19	V.E.G. President. I'll agree with the criticism that sounds to me that we were here. I met with the committee this morning and was late for this meeting because I had just arranged a bookup to a committee writer on the case where I objected to the work plans of more part of the Committee to add four new sources, a new idea, and sent them out for review. There was no written suggestion, and there is no suggestion for the greater part of the committee. I don't think this procedure is in accordance with national protection and use laws and regret that the law has not been carried out. This presentation of the greater part of the committee is also designed to add controversy to this important and important matter, with the most important matters being among us generals trying to make for the greatest peace and to eliminate issues, where no one is able to do all that he can and all may have to yield something. It's the art of compromise. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this was not on the committee's program, and the majority had to bring in two noncommittee members to get their way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I agree that there is a need for a meeting on the Presidency Committee to discuss this procedure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u20	The President has a right to what he said. He intends to present a meeting on the Presidency Committee with members of the House of Congress during lunchtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u21	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. I'd like to have a meeting with a president, but I'd have been found in the light of experience, since we took this discussion in November to the highest level. A president should have been perfectly aware of which this proposal would lead us to a major part of the employment committee. We agreed with a agreement law on a structured framework of the procedure, i.e. how we will offer suggestions on the steps taken. The majority of the employment committees are going to come up with some idea and put it in a narrative process, which will then be carried out on a whole different case of one priming. There's only five of them in there, and there's only two categories in the frame plan, a brand-new category and a protection party. [[The president calls.]] The waiting party is an extraction team, and it is a legal process to classify activation options.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The president's job is to arrange a meeting with both the chairman and the presiding committee during lunchtime. I suppose the lunch break will be longer, since half an hour will probably not be enough to cover the case in both places. This is not just a legal case, it's not just a matter of perfunctory laws. The Council is being transformed into some kind of secret assembly. The people of the council are being violated in an absolutely few ways, and I demand that a president stand up to defend the members of the council here in the hall. Such major events are not addressed to the Committee but in secret as if it were possible to sit before the generals with unexpected and unsubstantiated proposals, surprised in the morning without anyone knowing about it, not even the members of the administration. [[The president calls.]] It's a process so totally below all the caves that I trust the General President is driving men back with this wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to start by highlighting a word or two. 9th. s.. That's, like, when he's doing his work at the end of the day. The head of the professional road committee on this matter. Pirata Group consists of three individuals who have eight committees to meet at least four times a week. Much of our work is focused on priorities, so we know what we're talking about. When it occurs, we do not have this opportunity to prioritize. And that's not gonna work, Mr. Honorable President. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar and pray that the president will take the lead in stopping these tactics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u24	President. Is it not surprising that we are back in this discussion? Did not this discussion take place at the end of November? It is not surprising, though, that at times people think that we are just a bunch of crazy people. Why can it be said that the Chairman of the Committee repeated this kind of work, which I think is illegal? It will be natural to thank the president to make a lunch meeting on this subject. Has it not been a month's vacation called, which is naturally not for Christmas holidays, is there a pause in the Senate here in the hall, but was it not possible to speak to the head of a professional committee at the time of not using illegal practices? If the government part is going to do bad weekly, it's gonna be good, but I trust a president to stop this kind of thing from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u25	President. I appreciate the fact that meetings are being announced on the Presidency Committee and the Council of Congress, but it is quite clear that it is not enough time to plan for that half hour. What I would like to underline is that it is completely unacceptable, and I need to make it clear that this is the subject of a new program that is illegally designed, whether it is a national law or a contagion. I think it's very serious that we've arrived at the legislature that President's not responding immediately to such procedure at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u26	A respectable president. Those at the top of an agreement are those who started to violate the agreed agreement on frameming law by quickly moving six priming options from a waiting party. It was the whole deal. This is suggested and is being referred to part of the options taken manually from a waiting party for review. It's as simple as that. There are no eight options, as was first said, four advantages. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller speaks of compromise, so what is that other than compromise? There's not eight options, they've been reduced. That's a compromise, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u27	A respectable president. It is obvious that the real issue of activation and protection is one of the most difficult problems we face in this society. That is why it is so important that we all stand firm, for there was a set set of laws on how we are going to settle these issues. The career's in the law. When the proposal of the project was changed during the last terms, it was carried out in accordance with these laws. That's how it was done. The law is now being violated. These laws are not to be followed, and that is very serious, because from the point of view we have on whether more to engage or protect more - I think they should be protected more - we must stick to this agreement, this agreement about the career, or everything will go up in this great issue. I must ask the Presidency to represent her in this matter, a ruling on the basis of the laws already established. [[The president calls.]] There are two laws that need to be considered, the Senate and the Framework Act.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u28	Mr. President. There is an interesting explanation. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Paul's Pálsson's view that this is a much better case because the law has reduced by half, four advantages, or five in return to eight. That's not the way it is. On the other hand, I believe, Mr. President, is inevitable to discuss the meeting of the prime committee and members of members of the Parliament what has become evident here during the discussion, and I have received confirmation from members of a professional committee, both of which made this case so that in the Committee the matter was by no means on the formal program of the Committee. It was presented oral ideas by the Chairman at the end of a meeting that, of course, surprised the members of the committee. I think it's absolutely inevitable that a prime committee might be involved. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson will be assigned to a course and he would teach a method of practice in these subjects. It is absurd to think of trying to spread such a big issue. To the extent that it remains to that end, this will be part of it. A senator who is presiding on a Senate committee is well aware of his work ethic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u29	A respectable president. I thought this circus ended here in November when we had Jón Gunnarsson's son, 1 but now it's time to take Jón Gunnarsson's day. Then let's just do it and go over the whole thing again. It's simply that we have laws in this country that were approved in this hall during the last term, including of what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and friends of the advance party and the Independence Party. This was agreed by all classes at the council in which a Framework Programme should be carried out. And the process is not that the employment committee should decide what to do with the protection and activation of the environment. It's not like that. The process is so much so that there are special professional groups, that it is a task management project on a framework that will decide in what way it suggests to be considered. As a result, a minister puts the matter in an open discussion, accepting the comments given, and taking the case to the council after the review procedure. [[The president calls.]] That's the law, a respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should stop talking and let others talk because he's been getting a lot more involved in this discussion, and he'll probably have it here today because we haven't said the last word in this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u30	A respectable president. I have to agree with what's been said here about the work of this case. I wonder, it's not just a case plan, it's what the government thinks. Has she discussed this? What's the bottom line? Minister on this? Does he agree? Has it been taken particularly for the reduction of half of the government? Whether this is the case or whether it is only the chairman who makes these decisions and how much of the greater part of the work committee should be called in two and the case is not planned. Is more of a job committee, i.e. her nobles, informed of the Chairman's decisions, or it's always a monopoly on the part of the president. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son? This is indistinguishable, and it is not acceptable that such practices are carried out, and it is very special that two things are needed to be taken out of the way so that such rudeness and violence can be dealt with. A senator will be with you for the second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u31	A respectable president. It is inconceivable, except that the President of the General Assembly takes up position with the Democratic and legislation Association, the Allied Council of Iceland, in such a case that has to do with a certain baseline set of rules and tactics. As mentioned above, the law of national law, and the Convention cannot be known for allowing these practices to continue, subterranean, and backmasking where they are trying to slip things on the back door. It's a violation of the frame plan, it's a violation of Congress and the respect of the General Assembly is actually at stake regarding whether this is being handled once and for all time, that you don't have to stand here in front of this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u32	A respectable president. Once again, these devices are completely below all the caves. To be perfectly clean, it is so that one advantage of the one I hear of. A senator will be sending into a narrative process, as if it were his to decide what is activated and what is protected, an option that has not been fully trained in the project management, with the professionals. You can't be getting into that hipps-arming business again. Why would men here approve of creative work if they were to just break it and do it exactly as they please? Why? A respectable president. This isn't how it works. That's not how we deal with the nature of Iceland, and that's not how we walk around here at the Council. It is beneath the respect of the council to act this way. The legislation of the General Assembly will collapse. When people talk about putting something down, they put it down with these devices because it's so short since we've accepted a law that's now being broken and treated like toilet paper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u33	V.E.G. President. It's just not allowed by the government and the government to look at it, they've messed up and screwed up and violated all the rules, now the Senate to ignore the laws of the frame. Last night I watched a documentary, Dreamland, which is about how the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party crossed the line, passed them, to allow me to enter the country of an international corporation to buy energy on sale, a fire sale I'd like to say. It was kind of painful to see how the rulers of the nation fell into the dust for the power of money and corruption. Now it looks like they're ready to repeat the game. Mr. President. I encourage the President to promote the dignity of the Generals and stop this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u34	A respectable president. Here we go. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson of a month said that the former government violated a framework law. That's wrong. These are false stories that have been taken out of this symposium more than once. I want you to do it now, chief. President, request that at the meeting that will be followed by a prime committee and members of the council be considered in the violation of the law. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Which article of the law was broken? Then, if it becomes a reality that we in our government opposition will, of course, do all we can to prevent it, compare the articles of the law. I'm sure it's the highest. The president will defend the respect of the council as well as prevent it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u35	A respectable president. I think it's quite clear that by this morning's decision, more than a part of the employment committee is breaking laws in the country. No one has spoken against it. [[Up front.]] Actually, there was a why. paritaprevir To the contrary, Páll Jóhann Pálsson stated that instead of trying to break the law eight times, he decided to break it five times and therefore showed compassion, and this is all right and can be reconciled, to compromise that the law will be broken only five times and not eight times. But where are the members of Parliament who were called from other committees to resolve this issue this morning? A member of the State Department called out, why. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, to resolve this matter. What is his position on the matter? Why are these senators not responsible for this nonsense? Of course, I'm not sure why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson because he's doing nothing but stupid. Where are they now? Why don't they stand here and defend themselves and explain why in the first place they went wrong? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u36	A respectable president. I told you before, those who had the highest in this town were the first to break an agreement. They were talking about an agreement that was being violated, since the whole body of Congress agreed on a framework of that era. [[It's a law.]] [[Foreground: not an agreement.]] To break the law eight times or four times, that wasn't my word earlier. I quoted a word. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, who was talking about whether we could compromise. I asked them, " What is it besides compromise, instead of providing eight things? ' What is a compromise, what understanding does it put into wording, compromise? But to send four options for a review, the activation option mentioned in this Senate resolution is not as if it were about to be activated. [[The president calls.]] We are sending these benefits, which were manually transferred from a colony to a waiting party in a review process. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u37	A respectable president. There is a total agreement on the job committee on this matter - in the majority of the business, forgive, complete solidarity in the greater part of the issue, and should not surprise anyone here. [[Foreground on:]] [[Foreground on:]] To be called to the officers who were called to the meeting, an explanation has already been given. As the senators know, meeting attendance often requires that they do so for various reasons. I think it would be most irritating in the smaller parts of the council that we could stand together, that it was not so often known during the last term that there was a solidarity on the subject; these cases were manually moved back into the Ministry and worked in the marshes, full of priming options taken from a novelty class, and put to a waiting party. It was annoying, the people hated that method, and that's why we're rewinding it. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u38	A respectable president. What a surprise it is to see that the government sector did not learn anything from its mistakes here a year ago! It is, in effect, beyond all reason to make the opportunity to continue with this propaganda. On the side of the government's stand, there was a clear emphasis for Christmas to have been made that the law under this category would be set up to ensure a solid protection and use that is a great deal of national resources to have been built. It is of interest to note that the administrative point is determined to corrupt the people of the nations and to abuse them. Because of what? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson was asking about a definition of something that might be an agreement or a compromise, of course, in order to follow the legal framework that has been approved here at the sixth dozen votes of its time and to follow him in all things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u39	Mr. President. The president has requested that this be held at a council meeting during lunchtime. I urge the President to interrupt a meeting at this time. I can't believe we're supposed to go on here as far as nothing's going on. Here, government senators come and pride themselves on the fact that the greater part is united in opposing laws on the frame of the principle and in compromising the laws of Congress. We in my section can't be treated like this, Mr. President. It's unannounced, and we can't put up a meeting while men stand here and be proud of being able to ignore the rules and songs in the power of the greater part, much more than a vote, because it was only a little more than 50% while the council's grant is here 60%. Mr. President. I wish to be taken into account here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u40	A respectable president. I think we all appreciate it when people lighten up here in a speech chair. Sadly, that may not be done too often. But five jokes of the sort, bathing and breaking the law by taking eight things down to five, and that there's a compromise, I don't think it's acceptable in this room. But it shows exactly how this greater proportion of things, which is more natural than he has a vote - in fact, the unjustly rated system that is here, is going to get busted. It's quite clear with everyone else. It's like whisk. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who whispered to me, said: "If I had written the script to the rudeness to show us here at the council, it would be more beautiful than what we watch today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u41	There are answers: Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u42	A respectable president. This was a bad step for people over 25 years of age to close the higher schools of the country. This consists of a fundamental change to the education policy of the nation, which has never been properly discussed at the General Assembly. So in our government opposition, we warned that this would have a serious impact on high school in many parts of the country, especially in the country. It has given special attention to increasing education levels, and we have seen the joyful trend that many people have pursued high school because schools have been founded in the home that have given people the opportunity to pursue higher education without traveling long distances. Now the basis for this school is weighed, and the news is coming out of trouble. High school at the Grinch faces problems next fall. We already see a great cutoff at the High School of the Year's Day and are expected to do further cuts in the following autumn, followed by reports of the United States Mountain School, where students are already being rejected on a large scale. These news reports should give us some thought, for we do not see that governments have provided no other solution for these people who are comparable to them. With access to higher schools, people had a chance to pay 103/43. K. in the registration fees of each semester and in the pursuit of further education. There is no other study available today. I must ask the highest. Education Minister: Is it really possible for him to take the lead in this course in view of the present facts? And how does he intend to react to these people's problems and ensure a solution comparable to what they have so far enjoyed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u43	A respectable president. That's not true. In the beginning, a senator stated that a decision was made to study higher schools at 25 years of age and older. First of all, high school remains open to most of the 25 - year - olds who are studying, those in trade and to-dos, the majority of them. The decision was then made to raise the amount of money for each student to almost 1.1 million. K. has a student from the 890 you have. K. which had gone to the bottom of 2014 prices in the last government, resulting in marvelous damage to the high school system. This will be checked in accordance with the priorities established by the Ministry of Education for the Last Government, by Regulation in 2012. It explains the order in which students should be enrolled. Thus, it is not a new or unsurpassed decision that such priorities exist. On the other hand, this may be the case. When that was the case, a senator missed the discussion, but it is not the case with the person mentioned here. As for the entire high school system then, as I have noted, the average increase has been made. There has been a few discussions about the group in the book study that cannot enter high school because of the priorities established in 2012. Then I'd like to point it out. A senator has the present problem in the system where we're going out of an overcrowded system in which the number of students have been decreasing. And I want to point my tail. In 2014, a senator is expected to reduce the number of high school students by more than 600 because students likely went to work because their professional life had improved. [[The president calls.]] Because of this so - called 25 - year rule, it is a larger and larger change, which, of course, affects the high school, the way it is built, and the way it is built up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It involves larger figures, a respected president. [[The president calls.]] These two things are not to be confused in the discussion, such as why. A senator does frequently. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u44	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister is here with me, saying surprising explanations that keep no water. He hangs by checking on a set set of priorities under the rule set out by his predecessor, the daughter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir. No one was denied access to the higher schools on the basis of that priorities. There is a list of the order in which people are enrolled, not the order in which they are denied access to schools. That's what's at the top. A minister has now changed the rule of turning people over 25 years of age access to high school education. It is a serious goal to be balanced for study. There are no comparable resources available that cost as little as high school for people over 25 years of age. And the highest. Minister refuses to answer my question here. Interestingly, he is alone in this regard. The head of education at the National Association of Professional Science, his predecessor of work, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, called attention to this reverse trend at the highest level. Minister, so it's not just me seeing what false step the minister is, there's more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u45	A respectable president. The reason for setting a rules as to how students should be enrolled is not the result that all students should be accepted. There would be no need for such order. Obviously, such regulations are put in place because there is a priority system. And I got it. To learn also the laws of high school, what is presented there on this subject. What I'm trying to say is why. A senator in charge: There is now a reduction in the number of high school students, including those in high school. because rivers are shrinking and because jobs are changing. There are larger changes resulting from this and became during the past year than the results of this article, i.e. The 25-year rule. But then I'd like to point them out, too. For those 25 years of age and older, there is indeed some means to make a book study available to a senator. They are many and varied, and they have increased. [[The point is, How much do they cost?]] [[Prominently.]] I'd like to point to the appeal given to the head of the High School of Education in Hamrahem. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] The reason that the Senate was shut down was even more so. Because the resources available for older students have become much more varied and better than available, thus reducing the number of students in that department. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And there were hundreds of students, a respected president, in several years. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u46	At once, the president asks for a sound in the Senate Hall. Congress officials make their speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u47	President. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture has proposed the idea of uniting three universitys to one, i.e. The University of Agriculture of Iceland, the University of Hólar and the University of Bifrost United these three universitys in one private school, two public schools united in one private school, and then one university in the country. I ask: What happened to the plans that have been raised and started in recent years, and they were working on, both in college and in the management department, as well as in the University of Akureyri and the University of Hólar? It would have been the primary source of professional harmony, i.e. with regard to educational advancement and teaching, and, of course, some financial advantage in the future. I ask the effect of such unity, which is intended to do by the highest degree. Secretary of education, eh, i.e. Together, these three schools, all of whom have had economic difficulties over the years. There won't be a new life made out of three bodies. There's no doubt about it. This unit will need a lot of money. It will need billions of people in the first place to get the school organized and then a lot of money. For example, like the University of Akureyri, which has special place in the country beyond other universities, what does this have to do with the university campuses? Does this not mean, then, that in view of the ideas that have now been observed by the University of Akureyri, they received funding during the current year? A minister of education to establish a new private college in the same area, in order to serve the country, teach and then need money for what the University of Akureyri has not received? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u48	President wants to ask why. Senators watch out for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to mention that since the fall of the year, a lot of work has been done at the Education and Culture Department for Data Summits and Analysis at the University of Iceland, in comparison to what's going on in the countries around us, quality of the world, teaching, research, financing models, etc. The results of this work will be available shortly and should be a good basis for continued discussion on the university level. Work at the same time as the task is done, including examine the possibilities we have to strengthen the smallest of our schools. It was for the job as a dog. The senator was, in effect, referring. Then there is the need to make clear, so that it does not cause a misunderstanding, that no decision has been made that this union, or cooperation, will be realized. This is only a review of the situation, finding out what possibilities are available, then this report will be submitted, and then, when all the data in this case are available, we will make a decision. On the other hand, a respectable president, I would like to make a significant comment on why. A senator should have said about these schools and used the expression "three likes. " I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should take advantage of this opportunity when he comes second in answer to draw them back a comment, they were inappropriate for this school. His comments on the University of Akureyri's status against the schools. They're just ridiculous and not worth the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u50	A respectable president. It's interesting that we're going to miss the highest level. Ministers to have been preparing this case since the fall. As reported in the media, there has been no discussion with one of the presidents of these schools, i.e. Farming School or University of Hólar Of course, these matters have not been discussed with the head of the University of Akureyri. Then the University of Bifrost remains. I don't know if any consultations have been made with the rulers there, but I think it's more likely in view of the fact that the head of the former head of the Independence Party Committee from previous years and bearing all this work evidence of being a private person in college than has ever been. So I think that one part of this case, if it becomes reality, will threaten the state of the University of Akureyri, the community college, the university university university university, because it is being set up by a private school that will need funding, which will have to stand at a competitive market at the University of Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] So I think and repeat that it is necessary to view the tractors that the University of Akureyri received funds in the current year in that light, especially because of the new information being presented here at the highest level. Secretary of education that this has been in preparation since autumn. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u51	A respectable president. Now it's that I've never had any specific requirements for accuracy. A senator may find that he enjoys other things more. Yet, there is a requirement that we do not deliberately turn our backs on or treat them improperly. I said that preparation for the report of the people I described began in the fall. There was no need for that. A senator trying to turn it out, saying that this began preparation for the information collected in the cooperation of these schools, that it began in the autumn. [[Up front.]] So it's clear. Besides this, there is building data to assess the potential for strengthening the position of the three schools, which are difficult because of the small number of them. Then there is a great lack of confidence in the University of Akureyri and all the great and powerful work there to say, or to worry about it in a public field, that these three little schools that work in very limited fields -- why. A senator must know such a thing as to the operation of Innunia and the difference between what happens there and Hólar and what is being done in Akureyri; that by strengthening these factors, the University of Akureyri is threatened. [[The president calls.]] It is wrong and much distrust over that great organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u52	A respectable president. I mean, I cut it off in an interview sometime before Christmas, reminds myself, at the highest level. In view of the high rate of annual prices, the local minister was referring to the lack of intellectual ability, to follow up on the level of merit tax assessment from 14% to 7%. At that time, consumers' clinics, consumer organizations, and ASI were directly funded to monitor and monitor the progress of these changes to consumers. V.E.G. A minister answered that she had confidence in the market. I would like to trust the markets, but I may not completely agree with this because the market is complex and that it works and we can trust in him must be competitive, and they need to be present consumers who are extremely well informed and conscious and who are making right decisions. For example, prices need to be very well. We often downplay the surveillance of the consumer clinic, and I hear that the consumer clinic has been carefully monitored for prices. That's very important to consumers'sense of merit. We know that Iceland does not have all kinds of competition. To see that there are many ways to improve, you need to read the Web site of the Contestant Commission. There are companies even in monotonous positions, it's a small market, and it's price fixing; I'm not going to grieve us by bringing up everything that's gone over the Icelandic consumers in that relationship. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. Minister if she doesn't agree with me in that the market may not completely see itself. They need a strong surveillance program, and they need informed, conscious discussion. [[The president calls.]] It is very important to inform consumers, and it would have taken some action before Christmas in view of the changes in prices that took place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u53	V.E.G. President. It is my fundamental stand that public surveillance is not needed when it comes to these factors. In fact, I also believe that the Icelandic consumers are well - informed and pay close attention. I believe that because of the many changes made during the New Year's season, very much of the discussion, much discussion, and well - introduced, consumers themselves started watching the prices of the country. It is imperative that consumers are very alert to the right use of traders and businesses. Of course, we noticed, in a news broadcast when these changes were made, that consumers were very alert to what was going on, there were repeated reports where people pointed at things. I don't agree with that, if I've understood why. It is true that consumers are not well informed. The decision was not made on the basis of this particular partnership. As I say, my position is that the market has taken place, which I think has occurred in these last weeks, followed closely, and also provided necessary provisions. The other is a different matter, and there I can certainly agree. A senator, that there must be competition in as many areas as possible in the country. There I share her opinion. In many places, I would like to see even more competitiveness in certain areas of employment. But there is a serious competition here in the very field of commerce and business, so I don't see this problem in particular. However, I agree, and I also have the fundamental belief that competition is for the benefit of consumers and nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u54	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think Icelandic consumers are as well informed as they can be. On the other hand, no one has a consumer perspective on the whole market. The changes were also important, so in some cases they were very small, 1.5 percentage points, but in other cases large when the product was canceled. Then there were food increases and even the reduction in sugary foods. Also, we are not buying a brake flare or what it is called every day. Thus, it is so important, and there are consumer organizations and various consumer institutions who are concerned with consumer interests, to hold on to all the information, and to share it with consumers, for each consumer has limited information in itself. I would have felt the need for this, too, because there is follow-up, and that was clearly done in 2007. There's a hold for the segregators when they know it. Naturally, I say, the sellers want to sell their product at as much price as they get away with it. That's the way it is. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot about correction. I would like to see correction, not only at the National Church but also at the consumer organizations that have gone very close in recent years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u55	V.E.G. President. I should have guessed in my previous reply that, of course, there are people at the market watching. The senator rightly referred to the Neythal Society. They are extremely important and have worked hard over the years. I know why. A senator knows this very well himself. So are the unions, I can name the People Union, which over the years has watched merits for the benefit of their members and all of us, of course. By the time of the year, I believe that the market was given by the Icelandic consumers by attracting attention to how things were done. Of course, we do not buy certain things every day, but that is often just when we do what we especially agree to do and do prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u56	A respectable president. I'm going to ask you a direct inquiry to the highest level. Industrial Minister for the case she's held here at the council, and it's called the barrister, a natural pass by some, and for the exchange of tourist locations and natural bulbs in this country. All I want to do is ask the minister about her proposal for the news that has been given from the sector itself on the matter. It is certainly a challenge to address many different viewpoints over the years, but the lack of solidarity has been achieved in at least the majority of the community within the tourist movement to see that one way in wages was more reasonable than another. Then there's a new pre-employment method, i.e. to earn the income of the local tax. When it comes to the understanding that it is the job's viewpoint to go that way and that there is a way not to complicate the tax and the pay system, you may ask: Of course, what rich reasons are there not to consider the sector's views, and especially because it is now a travel minister's office? Minister of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir? I thought that she and her team, the Independence Party, had placed considerable emphasis here in the General's symposium on paying and paying taxes on the sector in agreement with the sector rather than in opposition to it and on the fact that there is an important principle to saving the system. Clearly, this article is both contrary to the will of the article itself and to the entanglement of the system. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Has it and the Independence Party disappeared from the policy of consulting sector and trying to stick to a simple tax system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u57	A respectable president. That is correct. A member of the travel agency's board recently suggested suggestions that changes should be made to the host's fee rather than accept the proposals I had made and were not set up at that time. Among other things, they had worked hard and cooperated with the article. However, this release of the organization is not what the senator here said is fully supported. On the contrary, in these last days and weeks, there has been great opposition to that course. Now for the weekend, 17 companies in the organization protested that way, asking for the organization to go another way in that regard. This may sum up the matter. There is no one way absolutely flawlessly to contribute to the loyal and trustworthy means of financing in this regard. I'm the first person to admit it. I went through the ideas, suggestions and reports, which have been proposed by the tourist organisation, by the consultation area of increased prosperity, by McKinsey & Company, by Boston Consulting Group, by the Government Advisory Committee, etc., and went through all arguments and benefits and defects. I came to the conclusion that I have now proposed for Congress. Now it is the Senate's taking the case, reviewing these same views, calling for reviews, opinions, and views, and I believe that after that we will succeed in bringing this matter to its final outcome so that everyone will be pleased. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u58	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers to their answers as far as they can go. But I didn't think it was the Independence Party's opinion that there was some point of assessment at the highest level. Ministers on the benefits and shortcomings of which tax returns should be of the sector. So I understood that the Independence Party stressed that the tax on the industry was agreed with the sector. Of course, not all companies in this article agree with one process, but it is clear that more of the management part of the industry supports this process. Add to that the way they provide, the host tax. That means there won't be any more complications in the currency and the tax system from the current level. I thought it was a prime focus on the Minister and her party not to interfere with the tax system. I understand the highest. A minister has been in other places when the situation was not open to him, but I ask: Now that this article's position is set, he wants the highest. A minister does not make a new decision and stick to a simple tax system in harmony with the will of more of the sector itself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u59	A respectable president. It is basically wrong that the senator claims that the changes involved in the proposals of tourism do not involve more complications. This is basically a misunderstanding. A member of the council because changes in the host's account are being made that, first of all, they will not give us the money we need in order to be built up. Second, to make changes include moving the cost from being on each bedmark to being paid at each guest's expense. Third, a substantial increase is needed, and in order to obtain the money, it may even have to be raised considerably according to the cost of the stay. So, basically, it's wrong. Senator. On the contrary, I have not fallen away from the ideologies that I and my party agree to simplify the tax system. Therefore, it is also suggested that the host's fee be taken away, which is completely in accordance with the conclusions made at my national conventions and that I fully work in harmony with his policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u60	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Minister of the state of transportation and welcome her to work. I'd like to hear what is going on with the transport plan, but as I understand it, it's been in the process of working out, a program that is going to go into effect since 2013 to2016. When will this transport program be established, and a twelve - year plan, when will it be seen? What a disappointment it was that small amounts of money were put on the budget of the budget! A total of 23 billion were planned, but there were only about 20 billion. Instead of financing the elements for which there is a greater need for material wealth, increased funds were brought from new resources to maintenance and snowcapped. It has been shown that the non-contracted projects are in complete uncertainty and that I mention projects like animal tunnels and the construction of the Lord's honors. When will they be completed? I also ask of the second stage of construction on 60 West Coast Road of Gufudals and where that matter all is a constant proposal for an revision of the roadline. I'm gonna give you the Kappos Road. As we know, good transportation is essential to the unity of institutions such as health institutions, police and county offices. We know, as in the West, that such unity simply does not occur if transportation is the way it is today. It's unacceptable. I'd like to mention that in the laws on transport, it includes the obligation to promote a positive urban development, and then I want to hear the highest attitude. Minister to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u61	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the United States is moved by a very important language, which is the development of transport in the country. These days, the Ministry is working on a transport program that allows it to be submitted to this council. I'm also posting my emphasis on that job. Of course, all this ideal period of transportation has been under way, but I can now bring my emphasis on this work, and I can assure you of that. A member of the Parliament that I am fully aware of the importance of transport in the country's infrastructure. Hv. A senator refers to the health system, and it is true that in the scattered areas where we look for safety in the health system, transportation is extremely important. That's what I think we're gonna do. A senator wholeheartedly agrees. In this case, I would like to mention the additional funds received in the budget and were made necessary for the State Department of the Interior, much of which was spent on transportation. I can agree with that, too. A senator and a minister of this matter that, of course, I want more money. We know that during the past few years we have had to make significant reductions because of the pressures we experienced in the economy, and there is a great deal of effort in transport in many parts of the country, both in the scattered regions and in the capital areas, also a major project that needs to be done in my opinion. I think it's very important at this point that we look to the big projects we have to take, and there's a lot more to do in maintaining roads, etc. These policies are taking place these days. Maybe I don't want to go out on a team, but I can tell you what. A senator told me that I am well aware of the vital trajectory of animal trajectory. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for these answers and her willingness to try to make more money for transportation, not to help. I will support her for that, and we will be here at the council. We know about employment and other factors that make transportation a crucial factor. I am sick, based on Western Europe, which has recently been discussed, and it is crucial to what will be done by a ring connection within the West. It is a fuel industry on the south side of the West and is also working on the north side of the West. Last summer there was a flow, which is important for the whole year. I feel that there is a clear message that needs to come from the Minister of the Interior to the places where they're sitting, wherever they are in the country. There are areas on the coast, north of the country, in the West, which are decades behind in transportation. [[The president calls.]] This makes a difference how priorities are put into action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u63	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the encouragement. A senator in these matters. I'm well aware that in many Western lands, especially in the southern part of the West, the locals live with what we call the first generation of highways. There's something we can't make, that's quite known, and I'll agree with it. Senator. I want to reiterate this and her words to me earlier, that now my policy is going on and it will, of course, include the priorities which I would like to suggest to the jury, so while I speak in a more general way now, it is quite clear that my words will be much clearer as I close to that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u64	A respectable president. During the lunch break, the plan is to review the circus exalted at the council after the decision to a professional committee this morning to send in advising notice in the community. I felt uncomfortable living up to this morning being accused of crime or having participated in breaking the law, but it was shown in the case of several members of the council this morning that it had been done in the process during the last term. I would appreciate the careful consideration of all of this, of the legal aspects of the matter, by the president and members of the Parliament, and for some evaluation. We cannot sit and work together at the high Council and accuse others, to expand ourselves in the discussion, to break laws. I think we need to take this seriously. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to be the object of breaking the law during the last term, and I would like this to be considered specifically in the work of the House of Congress and the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u65	A respectable president. I agree with what. The last speaker that it is necessary to determine and get information about the laws that men believe were broken during the last term because everything then was done in spirit and on the basis of the law, which was left alone in the council, was supported by all classes. On the one hand, I think it is very important that men come here with some kind of memo or analysis of this, and I think it would be a reason to ask the Senate's head law to agree on the law how to sort the activation options, how to do this in accordance with the law. It would be good to determine exactly how this process is thought. In my opinion, it is very clear in the law, but it would be good to be settled so that the officers' reactions could be obtained. Work committee to see what basis they are going to take into account in the way that is being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u66	A respectable president. Of course, when a legal case has taken place as we were discussing the procedure this morning, it is not possible to disqualify members of the Parliament from speaking of law. A senator and director of the Jón Gunnarsson's trade committee There, normal criticism of lawbreakers and violations was found. But already it is. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and possibly others, respond to the criticism with an empty declaration that a crime has taken place on the part of a former government in this same matter, is intertwining a discussion of full rights. It is unpleasant and disturbing for members of the council to agree with such false talk, the indiscretions of wrongdoing that have never occurred. Therefore, Mr. President, I take to heart the fact that this lunch hour will be a good time to review whether the law has taken place and whether or not a crime has occurred. þm. Páll Jóhann, the son of Paul, was able to stand and the conclusion of that opinion will be presented at the General following inspection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u67	A respectable president. I agree with the points taken by the first speakers and the need to make this clear for our meeting of members of the council and also for the presiding committee with the president on the matter. In addition, it is absolutely necessary to get clear whether this is a second primary in the course of the dog. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson to discuss and to the greater part of the work board, or whether it's the government of Iceland, and they're the highest. Prime Minister Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson and the highest. A financial minister of Bjarni Benediktsson who sends more part of the employment committee on this journey. I know that's a good catch to the highest. Since Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson is in the next room, I call it the highest. The prime minister informs the World of Whether these nuclear nuclear bomb is being thrown in by the government and whether to compromise with the laws of the Framework in this way is conscious and wants Bjarni son of Benedict og Sigmunds of Davíð Gunnulson and thus their responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u68	Mr. President. I'd like to point out that when hard work was taken up at Reykjavíkurburg on the National Rights Council, the presidents of the party, i.e. The head of the great Party, and the right of the court. Is it not true that the head of the Projection Party, or chairman of the Independence Party, stands out here - where it flows? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is an independent man - and corrected the course? This cannot be done in situations where a person goes back to the same routine. And when the case took place at the time, I suggested that it be more likely to be done to the environment and transport committee because it had professional knowledge. They swore that there was enough professional knowledge on the job committee. But I feel that this method shows that it is, unfortunately, absent from the majority of the committees, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u69	A respectable president. There is a very difficult situation when more part of the employment committee seems to be called upon to ignore the laws that apply to important matters and to try again and again to offer suggestions that do not meet the standards we have created at the General Assembly. I think it's reasonable to insist on the greater part that he will provide a legal report on the basis of this proposal. I don't feel that the council can function in a way that a zealous member of the Committee can, with the power of its chairman's board of directors, waltzed hollow and bulled over sensitive lawsuits without being bound by law. I feel that the council must set these boundaries, and the council must submit an analysis. We'll have to get an analysis from an Alleger's chief lawyer on the legal frame of this case. [[The president calls.]] I'm ready to know how that analysis is about government projects and practices during the last term, and I expect a new government to be bound by these analyses as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u70	A respectable president. Of course, the question is correct. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar under these teams, it is necessary to determine whether these ideas are involved. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son has the support of government leaders, the Chairman of the Independence Party, why. paritaprevir Bjarni the son of Benediktsson and the highest. Minister, maximum. Prime Ministers of the Sigmurs of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, president of the advance Party and airport friends. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] He's here at the council hall. It would be necessary for him to come here and explain his viewpoint on this matter, whether the legal interpretation was presented on Jón Gunnarsson's day here on November 23rd. is an interpretation of the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u71	A respectable president. I agree with the request made. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, it's important that we hear what the government's policy is about because there's a valid law in the country about the process. This is a second - time decision to compromise it, to do it differently, to do it as one wants, as they themselves like, according to their own opinions and to shun the professional process. It is being done here, so it is important that we hear what the government intends to do in these matters and in any case. paritaprevir This time Jón Gunnarsson has the support. He seemed to have it the first time. That's important. To sum up exactly how this was during the last terms, it was this way under the Law: It comes out ordering from the project management, it is sent into an open narrative, followed by the benefits of the greatest comments made by a waiting party, and thereby request that the professional task management replay the benefits of the comments made. [[The president calls.]] It was all the horrible things that a former government did. [[The president calls.]] This needs to be examined by council presidents and presidents and to rid ourselves of the fault that by this process we have violated the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u72	A respectable president. I'd like to start by announcing that I wasn't in the last government, my team wasn't in the last government, and I don't care what the last government did when it comes to a discussion about what's going on here and now under this government. I just don't think it has anything to do with it in itself. The fact that the last government has done one thing doesn't justify that it's now if it's true on another level, which sounds like it's not. But I feel absolutely necessary that when we discuss something like activations and other bites in the Icelandic social debate, it is absolutely minimal that it is then on the agenda that it is not and has not been. This makes it impossible for us to set priorities for the committees that we need to do because we are simply too small. I need to hear, and we generally moan about this discussion in this Hall of Congress without knowing what goes on at committee meetings because we have to set our priorities differently from those of other classes. I insist the president takes what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson speaking and making sure that when he is about to discuss such matters, he is at least afraid to schedule them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u73	Mr. President. We got to hear it earlier and to see that there's not much fine evidence in the logic of the executives in this case. Of course, this ancient governing body is used more and more frequently by those in charge, that it was only a violation of agreement or law, or what it was during the last term. This is comparable to the highest grade reaction. When a prime minister on a TV show found himself having trouble answering for the leak, he argued that it had just been so great a leak during his last term that it must be all right but could not mention a single example. The same thing is going on here. This government defense is a tragic failure because it is entirely prior to the handling of these cases, leading to the fact that the proposal appeared at the council, was exactly in line with the Law on a Framework Programme. Men accepted the process of having both the deadline and the reporting rights and everything else completely bulletproof so that they could do all they could when they arrived before the council, and that was what he did.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u74	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir reminding us of how much effort was made to get policy frames from a environmental and transport committee to a workaholic committee. Hv. The head of the Environment and Organization Committee and the president of the Council of the North, Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson, was not trusted to handle the matter. It seems to me that it's drawing up. Mr. President. Is it really so -- that is what we here in the smaller part need to know - that this is really the will of the government, which is reflected in the fractions of which we are here. The head of the pro board, Jón Gunnarsson's son, for the Congress Act? I'm asking if it was preconceived in this way. I don't really believe it, but when we remember how important it was that the senator, who has now shown a measure of independence in his work as the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, could not go into his hands at all. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good thing that the directors of the board answer for their policy in this matter, whether it's a law to enforce or follow the rules set here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u75	A respectable president. Looks like there's a problem again. Councilmen Jón Gunnarsson and Páll Jóhann Pálsson alone on the road; or perhaps three in the greater part of the trade committee. There is no president of the government, or head of the House of Governments, responsible for this act. So I call back to the fact that it is clear whether Bjarni Benediktsson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson are behind this tactics. I honestly refuse to believe that because of how human opinion on activation matters are, everyone can agree that the decision to activate the Uryrofos, one of the largest falls in Europe, will not be taken without the scheduled schedule; and for a subsequent discussion of a synonym as if it were a secondary factor. Of course, it is a matter of magnitude that there must be a normal spirit and three discussions here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u76	President. I would like to first agree with those members of the council who have requested a review with members of the Parliament and with the Presidency Committee whether the law has not been passed during the last term when a frame plan was discussed. I think it'd be nice to have it. I also wondered, because the executives of the government have been very diligent in declaring that they are again planning to make war that they have been killed by last year, because of an application for involvement in the European Union, whether they are also behind today's riot. In fact, we need to know if the government's executives, the Supreme Court. Bjarni Benediktsson and the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson, is only going to have the greatest war they can usually find here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u77	A respectable president. When we discussed these matters in November. the situation was similar to what it is now. The matter was not on the agenda. There was footwork and delay in the conference hall, and it decided that the matter would go no further. To tell you the truth, I was in the meaning of the highest. The president would have arranged it so hard that it wouldn't happen again. But what's going on here today? It is the exact same sequence of events to go on and in exactly the same way. Could it be that the directors of the board of directors did not talk to the professional board about these developments in November? Or might the leaders of the panels encourage this to be done by committee directors?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u78	A respectable president. It'd be interesting to know if there's a problem. The council of Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson and Egilsdóttir Eglólsdóttir agree with this. They weren't here to answer this morning. On the other hand, two oars were described. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson and Páll Jóhann Pálsson agreed, and another claimed that a single thought was in the majority of the committee's handling of this matter. I don't think so. I can't believe people are ready to do that, as was mentioned here, to activate the Uryrofos. I called this morning to see if this was officially taken in the government but the highest. The minister of these cases, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, was quick to swear by himself in the fall when this happened. It would be important to know if he now agrees that although this option is reduced by about half, it would be sufficient, like 1% in the cost tax would be enough for the Agency. Is it really so that humans value this professional process no more than that it reduces 50 percent of its ability to and maintain peace in this field?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u79	President. Much of the members of Congress here at the General Assembly have been told that respect for the work of the Parliament and trust is needed. It's not for that, that's for sure. I would like the newly appointed environmental minister to make a firm statement as to the position of the Supreme Court. There is a minister with regard to these vandalisms, this war gloves, to a difficult decision adopted by the General Assembly during the last term. I don't think it's a good idea for senators to come here in times of crisis and put the council in perfect hostage because of attentionlessness. I don't think it's available, and it's got to be handled right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u80	A respectable president. It is reasonable to ask, What is the situation today? When this was true in November, there was no question that this was the minister of the Independence Party. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was backed up by his superior self. Secretary of finance, Chairman of the Independence Party, strictly. At that time, however, there was still a minister of the environment in the country that stood on its feet. It's got to be said to be the highest. current environmental minister, now at the highest level. Agricultural and marine economist, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, as a compliment that he turned off this matter quickly and safely. Should we believe that the Ministerial switch at the end of the year was merely to ensure a reliable progress of environmental evasion? I don't believe it until I get to the top. The environmental minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir is so small that he falls from a firm opposition of the highest degree. present minister of the environment, Sigurdla Jóhannsson's Sigurður. I want her here in the hall, and then I want her to hear it clearly right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u81	Mr. President. I'm an emissary on the pro board. At night, I carefully examine what is planned for the next day's committee committee. I didn't see anything about this, it was electrical lines and stuff, but I would have come to the meeting if a frame plan had been discussed. We need to set priorities. These are not professional occupations, not unless the head of the Committee is trying to create a disturbance in the council and introduce here senators and delay their jobs, etc., only if that is the point. The Independence Party has been known to work professionally here at the council, at least according to the known process, because it is more likely to move on. This now costs the council, including the governmental parties, a time that could otherwise be used to achieve other class policies. Perhaps we should call for the president to pray. The head of a professional cartographer to set up such a big subject. [[The president calls.]] There is no room for another matter when discussing matters that concern most of the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u82	A respectable president. Here at the High Council, it is equally required. Parliaments show respect for the council. One would think that showing respect for laws approved by a accordion is part of that respect, thinking that putting matters on a committee's program would be part of that respect. You'd think, last but not least, to the highest. A government might decide whether this is a sign of respect for the council. Unfortunately, in some way in this country, we choose members of Congress and the top senators to have far more relative power than the others. It's the reality we live in today. However, it is fundamental to the government's respect for the council. And when representatives of the government, which are whiskers. Presidents on a well-being, can't see for incomprehensible reason putting this matter on a program, I feel that it is a spontaneous demand, at the highest level. Government, to explain exactly how she earns respect for the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u83	Mr. President. I'm going to reiterate my request that a meeting be postponed until the situation is resolved. This is a dual problem we are discussing. On the one hand, a major issue is taken off without even having so much on the agenda. For us who are employed here at the council - I'm chairman of a welfare committee and I don't think it's my business to set a case that's supposed to be off schedule. If that's the case, I'd like to know, and then we'd better stop having a program here at the council. Well, then let's just have an open floor, so I'll crash. However, the Environment and Resource Minister presented a proposal from a project administration in the form of a synonym for one practical option. All the rules we make are ignored in this way, by all the rules we have set. [[The president calls.]] On the one hand, good work is being done in the Senate; however, legislation on the Framework Programme is being overlooked. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I wish for a hearing to be postponed until these cases have been reviewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u84	V.E.G. President. To be honest, I was surprised by the way I worked. The head of the trade board, Jón Gunnarsson's son, for Christmas, in taking such a big case as we are discussing under the end of another matter. I just didn't know that someone would think of working here. At the same time, everyone may react, and the case was pulled back. So I find it quite amazing to hear that it is now done in exactly the same way again. I have to admit, I don't understand. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson afraid of the discussion on the committee? Is he afraid the members of the committee will be prepared for a meeting? Maybe he just doesn't care about the quality of his work? Since we are a part of the nation to serve here, it is of little importance that we at times take careful action and make legal decisions ourselves. Therefore, I hope now, at a meeting of the council groups and the Presidency Committee, to be subjected to this confusion and to make sure that we go to the assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u85	President. It has been observed, I think, interesting ideas on how the government department appoints people; that they may have been made out of this kind of work as the national part of the government did not want to put the framework of the management and transport committee as it should. Perhaps that, and perhaps the change of ministers at the turn of the year, was also to be arranged for a minister of the environment to take the place of someone who agreed to it. I still don't believe it, Mr. Honorable President, and I hope to the highest. The secretary of the environment comes here as soon as possible to bear the suspicion or what we call him; I think it's ridiculous to think so. I would also like to agree with what has been presented here, that it is not good to have this sort of extracurricular issue in terms of the size of a group of pirats. They do not even have the opportunity to switch jobs with them, making themselves available for meetings that are more important than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u86	Mr. President. Because I can see why. I would like to direct the director of the employment committee, Jón Gunnarsson's son, to him that he was relieved of his work at the General Assembly by drawing these ideas back. It can be done too. It's just ideas, and let's just forgive it. A senator said that he had taken a mindful flight this morning and forgot to put this matter on schedule. It is good to think, but it is also necessary to wonder whether they have done wrong and to use the power of reason to retract something that is wrong. It would be a great relief for a member of the Parliament to move forward and reassign this. It is not acceptable that such a big issue, if this idea becomes reality and an adjustment is proposed, only one discussion is made because it is a political arrangement. First round. is done and only after another round. [[The president calls.]] All intelligent men must see that this is not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u87	Mr. President. Only professional or material about what is planned here. I've been a senior. Environment Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has chosen to submit the proposal he received from the project administration last year to the council, i.e. Only Idle activation should be restricted to the novelty class. That proposal was carefully and professionally supported. The reasons why the project management did not suggest changes in further activation options were that it lacked data, research, work, and time. Hence, the Commission concluded that others as ministers were asked to be observed for a waiting inspection. That was a professional conclusion. These are exactly the advantages that the head of the professional committee now wants to move to a novelty party. In other words, Mr. President, if he were on the side of the Generals, he'd be such a success not only legally uncivilized but professionally undisputed, he'd just make shit in all the professional arguments available in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u88	The president wants to say that the time has now come, and he has been invited to the meeting that has been greatly called for as prime committee. President intends to meet with the chairman at 1 p.m., but the president is still with five members of the House on the rosary requesting to speak to the President's conference board. The president only wanted to deliver these messages to members of the council and see that the time for a meeting on the Presidency Committee has arrived.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u89	President. I find it very important to know that if it is such a decision, and imagination, it will occur. The head of the trade committee, Jón Gunnarsson's son, cannot be brought back to me, so I can't have respect for other councilmen. Why would I go to the Senate instead of some other senator? If the president does not give us very clear instructions that this type of work is not acceptable, where there is such a violation of Congress, I do not see reason to respect a body of Congress here, such as to stop talking when the bell begins. Why should I show respect for presidents if a member of the majority government gets away with showing similar disrespect to the council and the President of the Council this morning? It's shameful. It should be. A senator dragging this motion back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u90	President thanks a lot. Councilmen for responding. Already three or four have taken over a rosary, stopped discussing the chairmanship of the president, so that a meeting can begin with the presiding committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u91	A respectable president. I'm not gonna talk for long, but I believe that for the meeting that is about to begin, it's worth remembering to the highest. During the days, the president of the council, Guðfinnsson TheKristinn, said here that the government was not to be used in any way to promote matters here at the council. I want, topv. President, that the members of the Presidency Committee meet here have the highest reputation. A president in this matter. Nor should it be so that the chairmans of a committee can employ such preparations as this one is doing, preventing members of the Parliament from doing their jobs, as some have been discussed on the part of the pirats. The program is to be set up, especially when such a big matter is being discussed. Of course, all matters are to be subject to and on. I urge this word to be kept in mind. A grapple of the Council's President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u92	A respectable president. From the language of the dog. It is reasonable to assume that there is a certain misunderstanding going on. That's what's said here by some reason. Councilmen, e.g. of what? paritaprevir In the past, Sigríður of the Ingadóttir that the case was taken from the committee this morning. It is spoken here as taking this case from a committee. The point of the case is that a change was proposed. Then it is said that there was a very professional case, and a short argument of a project management, in proposal for a minister, and a minister did a professional job. What, then, is the purpose of sending this resolution to the council by means of the process of enforcing and implementing, with all the guests and all, that is a professional consideration? Isn't that exactly what we're offering, going on professionally? And the fact that we've walked past the law - it's said that more of the committees broke the law. [[The president calls.]] I wish for it. Councilmen support this and point out which articles and what laws on the Framework of the greater part of the Committee have broken. [[The president calls.]] I would like to have a material discussion about that. These are very serious accusations, and there is no need for people to think that they are being made into an unaccounted case. [[The president calls.]] Of course, both in the Republic's Constitution and in the Parliament, members of the Parliament have every right to propose changes in matters covered by the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u93	The president would like to report on the discussion under the supervision of Presidential Conference Board this morning that there were meetings on the one side of the presiding committee and among the council groups. This morning, when discussing these matters in a way that turned to the council, the senator's right to submit a change in proposal and the position of the president, the president presented the views he made in short. The president has been able to discuss the matter following the discussion that took place here on autumn days for a similar occasion. The president's conclusions are in detail as follows: 8th paragraph. the law on the protection and energy efficiency programme stipulations stipulation to be a minister to advise on how to prepare for the protection and energy efficiency programme. This, then, is stated in paragraphs 9 and 10. The law, both the working field, the procedure and the treatment. It has been claimed to be in accordance with 3 mg. Section 3. The law is, in fact, for the fact that the council can suggest a change in the frame plan. Then there is the possibility that a structure will be based on Congress resolution. According to the 38th paragraph. The Constitution has the right to convey the originals and council proposals and, of course, adjustments to the synopsis. If we examine this in the context of the Constitution itself, we are expected to do so according to 40,446. par. that candidates, one or more, can make adjustments. In other words, the right of members of Congress to make changes and to influence the issues presented before the council is very rich and conclusive. It is in view of the requirements, whether in the Constitution or in the Constitution, that the president's conclusion is obvious that there is no general law - and the president is not specifically referring to the law that has been most addressed but, in general, to the general law - to limit the rights of members of Congress to make changes in a matter of the Council. Then it is up to the core question: Can the president take part in the procedure under which the specific issues have been discussed this morning? The president's firm opinion is that, of course, he cannot intervene in that trial and thus limit the right of members of Congress. Then the president wants to draw attention to what is also a key element in this relationship, that a greater proportion of the Committee decided to submit their proposals for energy management. This is not to say that the committee ended its discussion. This is not to say that the committee is taking a case from the Committee to discuss it at the World Council of II. This is to say that the majority of the material is to dismiss these issues. The President has discussed with the chairman of the Committee that has told the President that tomorrow is scheduled for a meeting on the job committee and that this case will then be on the program. This is what the president would especially like to say about this matter in this regard, but the president would also like to mention that he believes that the basis for the general public review of these issues, without regard to this matter alone, is the source of legal information at the General Assembly on the matter of judicial matters. The president will, when complete, appear to represent it on the presiding committee and among the council groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u94	A respectable president. I want to make serious disagreements with the highest. The President's assessment of his use of this procedure. It is very strange if there is to be a change in the constitution to bind the administrative part here to a legal process that has been agreed by all paid votes at the General Assembly, if you do not respect basic protocols and regulations that have been passed in the law, and then proceed with fertilization, and use the Constitution, and that the general law does not comply according to a constitution. I also reiterate my request before noon. In fact, at the time of the release of a suitcase model in the fall, it was found to be the highest level. The minister of finance was eager to support this amazing career. But then we lived so well that we had an environmental minister who stood up and was very quick to turn off this experiment of abuse to power, the highest. existing agricultural and marine eco-efficiency. That's why I'm asking, especially, the newest. environmental minister because she is in the hall: Is she not of the same mind that she does not want to stop this march? Should we believe that there was a change in the environmental minister of the Mission Party and that now people are simply going to kiss their hand in this ruse? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u95	Mr. President. I think it is of particular importance when discussing fundamental matters, such as what the president of this magazine has determined to say is that people will be held back because of a conflict of individual Congress and will not abandon the princely debate. Of course, it must be the conclusion that Congress officials are free of proposals that enter the council in terms of their own adjustment proposals. It must be. However, in this law under which the framework is addressed, it was assumed that people would agree on the results from the beginning. That reconciliation was interrupted during the last term, not following the proposals of the project. Rather, it took a special political turn before it was submitted to the council. [[Take it up: wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u96	This is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u97	It can never be concluded that the treatment of matters such as this is a mere formality in which no changes can be made. [[The president calls.]] That cannot be the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u98	Mr. President. I welcome the words of the president that he interprets it so that he does not have the authority to make changes, clearly as the Constitution allows. That's very good. However, regarding the formal part in this, it seems that it is possible for the council to make decisions or to make adjustments to the synonym and even approve of church rules that conflict with law, in which the council is halfhearted to have agreed, and the authority is not authorized to perform it. This may be what these changes do because there is a legal process in which a process can be divided into these innovations. We'll see, and there's something that's going to be settled. But taking on such important matters is not a good process. There is something that a prime committee should consider. [[The president calls.]] Other matters are not permitted to make major decisions. A new meeting can be announced, and it can be done in an hour. At least everyone knows about him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u99	A respectable president. Since this is the case, it would be good to know whether it is the opinion of a greater part of the council and of the administrations and of the government officials that it is all right to replace a committee of four activation initiatives under Other cases, whether it is okay to engage in such action and to put in a series of four activations, of which one has not received the discussion of professional groups and project management of a future strategy. of a synonym where each member has a five - minute talk period. The question remains to be answered: Does the government seem to consider this a normal procedure and the highest? a minister of the environment currently in the hall accepts this interpretation of the law. It would be most intriguing for the discussion and for the members of the council to get this settled today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u100	A respectable president. Is there no agreement with the Chairman of the Independence Party? It may be right for the Constitution to issue the supreme rights of members of Congress that they can move adjustments, but all members of the Parliament joined together to establish a law on a procedure that is being passed here. Now, all of a sudden, the Independence Party does not intend to comply with the procedure that he himself set up in the framework laws and refer to the rules of a constitution that it is free of that kind. Is the Independence Party not bound by its political statements or by its votes in a chamber? Is it possible for six members of the General Assembly to unite in a future structure because the next time the wind blows out of one direction, the Independence Party runs away and tries outside the program and with one discussion to activate four natural bulbs in Iceland's nature? [[The president calls.]] What kind of work is this, and what does it mean that a major issue is taken up from the committee of the Generals without the program? [[The president calls.]] Is it possible for members of the council to make such an ambush in the morning that cases are handled that were not scheduled for the meeting? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It sounds to me that the rules at the council aren't in general, so I'll ask for the highest order. President of this bell as often as he's been lemja í John Gunnar's son this morning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All members here agree that it is completely unacceptable to handle matters in this way without the appointment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u101	The Senator has finished speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u102	In fact, the president of the Generalis feels that this procedure is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u103	Hv. Senator!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u105	Though the conclusion of the General Assembly, which he has supported, is indistinguishable. Even so, members of Congress, including some members of the United States, may be held captive by members of the Governing Body. ... ina talktime. That was what it meant. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u106	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir At this point, Hjörvar had the right thing to say when offering the ultimate question. As in this case, it is normal for a person to handle as large a matter as this and to compromise, as if in this case to send in a report of a specific priming option between guests on a different subject on the program. It was not even on the advertised program. When I'm at the highest. President beats the bell under that question. I rather think that he should have taken time and thought seriously about what he's going to answer. It's all the unpleasant and crystalline process of working in all of this. Yes, it is true that in all cases, we members of the Parliament have the right to make adjustments and put forth what we want here at the Council. But not only do we have in this case but we have so many other laws that are created in the way we put ourselves in a professional frame to prepare for decision-making here. [[The president calls.]] It is a framework and the Law on a framework, a development for professional management to strengthen the decision-making of the general council so that it does not follow a suitable policy, an option, or any whim.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u107	Mr. President. It's more than four spheres of nature. This too depends on the respect of the Generals for themselves and the laws it has set and for its careful and professional practices. Certainly, the right of senators to make changes is rich, including to suggest any nonsense. There is, however, one limit, such proposals must be passed, and I believe that the adjustment to a synonym is intended to push aside clear regulations of law is not met. Thus, the General will not be able to perform or legalize unless it is in the process that such a case is involved in the professional testing. There is evidence that the advantages presented here are to remain in a waiting category, and this has, in effect, established both the task management and the secretary, by offering a proposal for only one of the prowess to be suspended for use. [[The president calls.]] So it's both here, our respect for the law and careful tactics, and the President has a true record in the Senate, for example. ... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u108	Mr. President. Many wrongs have been presented in the discussion. First of all, the committee has not been resolved. What was decided today was to dismiss the case, and those members of Congress who do not realize the difference between sending a case and putting it out from the committee should read the Senate and study only the progress of the council. [[Stepping out of the commission.]] I think most of them are talking against a better awareness. It's not over yet. Second, the decision to activate is not to be taken. They are members of the Committee and are given reviews on whether or not to take any priming options in a novelty party. If this is to be activated, the environmental assessment will need to be performed. This is also known by members of Parliament. It was false, of course, that activations were removed from a novelty class and entered a waiting party during the last term, including issues that should be considered on the environmental assessment of projects but that have no part in the discussion at the council. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u109	A respectable president. If you can decide to enclose four recruitment initiatives into a second case at a committee meeting, you can certainly decide to place an unscrupulous constitution on the right of members of Congress to submit suggestions, the laws on the use and protection are meaningless. There's a law on how to deal with Congress resolutions, it's about how to deal with changes in, for example, the project management laws. There were adjustments in the project management proposals during the last terms, but this was done completely in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u110	Out of the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u111	The minister made a suggestion for a change, she went into a 12-week narrative process, and then entered the council. That's what the law says. The law is not being carried out, and it is amazing to witness a lack of respect for the law we see today. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, raises questions: What respect should we have, should we respect the bell, or where is the Senate work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u112	A respectable president. I'll say the highest words. President of Congress's rights is rich. During the brief time I've been attending a council assembly, it has often been said in this council hall that the general councilmen do not want to be just a cabinet minister. I hope we all feel that way. I would also like to tell you that we are at a critical milestone on this, not just what happened this morning, but what you've probably seen, that there were 88 benefits published from the Power Institute yesterday and I hope that you've read a fine interview with the head of the Project Management Board, Stefán Gíslason, in the papers this morning where he was delighted to see that these ideas were developed because the main project of a strategy is stipulation. Not having enough money to measure and classify has helped to keep the project under control. [[The president calls.]] He also had an interview that in about a year, he would come up with an idea, or committee, of sort. [[The president calls.]] I think that we might have a little wait for it and find out what's in the Committee now, a former environmental and resource minister has offered a single activation option, and the committee has it covered. [[The president calls.]] I've told you officially and won't change my view that I'd agree with the local manager's viewpoint on the projectary that these three advantages might be considered in the Þjórðar as a frame plan and the project management has been doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u113	The president wants to right the point. Councilmen follow the rules of speaking class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u114	A respectable president. I'd just like to explain to the audience that in the old days, or not the old days, not so long ago, before a frame plan was adopted, here was a law bill that takes three discussions so that things could be discussed enough. According to a frame plan, two discussions of a so - called resolution proposal will need to be made, but this time, without setting the matter up, are to be sent what appears to be an unwritten modification proposal, on the other hand, I can't find it written anywhere, and I have searched for quite much, sent to it a review, and provide one discussion with this idea, i.e. Second round. of a synonym. Can any sane person think that this was the idea of a frame plan being put in use? Is there anyone here to stand in this pit and say that this is the plan? That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson for that? He has said something like this from time to time. I ask: If they're going to put in a constitution and they're allowed to do all the money here at the High General, why don't they stand here in a pit and simply declare they're going to cancel a frame plan? [[The president calls.]] No matter what the legal process is, it's not consistent with the idea of a frame plan. [[The president calls.]] If this goes through when the frame plan is played and then you'll stand here and say it, have a judge to dare speak in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u115	A respectable president. There was a lot of news, I thought, the words the president used here after the intermission earlier. The age has already been said that the law that was agreed here in agreement, the Law on Framework, is not in effect. They don't matter. Even though it's the highest. The president quoted a constitution that he could have said that, however, he would suggest that what the senators had agreed to do in a particular process, that it will be valid even if they are allowed to do something else. There is also something else to discuss, the case of the Chairman of the Independence Party. It's that way, a respectable president, no matter what often he stands in a chair, saying that this is a new frame plan when taken care of, it is not true and must be considered with those who worked it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The articles that were being broken must be picked up, the chairman of the second body of directors repeatedly stands up and holds out false stories. [[The president calls.]] It's got to be settled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u116	Again, the President reminds me of what happened. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u117	A respectable president. Did anyone think that the Lawgiver would have that goal when he decided that this matter would eventually come to the council that the council had nothing to do with any change? The Act on Framework is assumed to allow ministers to make changes to the results of the project management. That's what the Ministers of the last government did. They took the matter and acted in harmony with the law and changed the results of a project management on the professional grounds described í the bók Aggressive son of Skarphéðinn, in political horse weddings. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Does anyone, more dignified president, think of the council as having nothing to do with making adjustments like ministers? [[Up front.]] I mean, of course, it's written into the law, and I want it in the great charges presented here, the majority of the councilmen on the job board, to review the material in which the legislation on the framework is being violated. What law are we breaking? It was called here to cry this morning that we were breaking the law, breaking both the Constitutional laws and the framework laws. [[The president calls.]] This has been retracted now. This is a riot that wasn't necessary. They sent a case for review. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] For review, the case was being sent. This refers to the release of a committee. [[The president calls.]] I quote the words of the prefect of the Independence Party earlier and ask them to examine only how they speak here - against a better awareness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u118	Again, the president brings attention to the matter. Councilmen are required to observe the rules of speaking class. He also encourages the reason. Councilmen to give public attention to speakers in order to speak their language.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u119	A respectable president. I have to say, I feel a lot sorry for what I did. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u120	You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u121	It's terrible not to have the courage to put it on a professional committee, which is clearly a problem. A member of the heart's affairs, on the program before being invited to the meeting. Twice. No one shall belittle the right of the senators to plead a case before the Council, but why? Don't you think it's a senator? Why doesn't he bring Congress, a bill to adjust the law on the frame plan? [[Up front.]] Why does he not do so by means of three discussions, using a natural and perfunctory channel? Why does he want to make such a case through technical loops, offering a single discussion in which men have five minutes to discuss the matter? It's completely absurd, and there's, of course, nothing more than a political coward to do it in this way. [[Up front.]] What a political coward. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is one who dares not even write down his proposal. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] No one's ever seen a suggestion. Senator. [[The president calls.]] He hasn't had the guts to write it down on paper. Where is it to be found? [[The president calls.]] She's just in the head of a dog. Senator. I feel sorry for what. A senator being such a political coward that he dare not present his own case. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u122	The president encourages members of the Parliament to maintain order at this meeting. Despite the wind. Councilmen here disagree with us, but the discussion may well be held within reasonable limits, the time limit being set by others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u123	Mr. President. V.E.G. Environment Minister earlier said that it was only right to wait for project management suggestions on the benefits to be used or protected or to remain in a waiting category. I agree with that word. Why don't we just wait for it? Was it not the point that we did just that? What are you going to do to this idea electronically? What's behind it? Where's the logic support? This matter has no logical basis. When it comes to discussion, it is usually supported by some authority. There is no such thing. Let's just say that a former environmental minister asked to consider a project management of eight options. She made one choice because the others were not ready and the highest. A local environmental minister agreed to this and concluded that there would be a need to investigate and explore the other aspects. And now, do as the current environmental minister says, wait for the proposals of the project -- that will come when? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It will be evident when work continues, but let's do it. I'm the highest. Environment Ministers recently involved in this work are now representing the environment and that it is governed by laws and does not act as supreme. Secretary of finance, speaking down the law and saying, in effect, that there is no valid policy law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u124	Similarly, the president of the court says that these too are the values of a council, which includes a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u125	V.E.G. President. I think the highest. The environmental minister has just said that in the past and proves that the process of being exposed to the majority of the employment committees this morning is illegal. V.E.G. The minister said that the Department of Energy had made a suggestion that priming options to work on a project plan - and what priming options should be in there? All four sources of activation proposed by the majority this morning. A respectable president. Do we need anything more of the witnesses? An energy agency is doing the right and the highest career of the law. The secretary of the environment just told us how this should work. There is another issue to offer suggestions in committees again. This proposal didn't come out in writing, and I'm asking the highest. President: What suggestion should be sent out for review? Is it to be accompanied by a paper ensuing in a synopsis proposal for Indomination that we are working on or that we are going to go into something just to include some magazines? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. You see, it's about the honour of the Generals. It's about going to the Framework Act. It's not about Congress now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u126	A respectable president. I reiterate that I feel that there is something that matters to me as a framed law, and I am convinced that we can agree on that. It's given such a short talk period, and obviously I haven't been clear enough because I don't think certain members of this room understand what this process is like. I said before, we're making a breakthrough, now we're starting a certain process because the Power Institute was sending 88 assets, not the Ministry. I don't have anything to do with it. The task management received, which is certainly a minister's adviser, but nothing was sent to me. Let's just get it straight. The Project Management Board has told me that now that she has been given all these advantages for treatment, she can really work well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u127	Let's wait for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u128	The head of the project management board, I quote this interview that was with him in the papers this morning, that he will later make suggestions for a minister when he has finished sorting these options. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good process, and I look forward to the cooperation and work ahead of this year, and I also look forward to publishing the benefits that will be the year before the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u129	President. It sounds like everything, and it's a pleasure, to the highest. Environment Minister is calling for a petition to be made with the proposal that has been smuggled here through a professional committee. It's called for us to wait for at least one year, and I think we should. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should grant this request to the highest degree. Environment Minister. If it is, as indicated in the case of the highest order. The lndependence Party Minister, who feels that the frame is no longer active, I feel that the government groups are supposed to come clean and say that the frame is no longer working, and there are other plans for how we deal with decisions about what are activation options and what are not. Based on what happened this morning's committee and also before Christmas, we're in something half-hearted. [[The president calls.]] There is much uncertainty as to how these matters should be handled. [[The president calls.]] It is uncertain that we agreed on the box back then, thinking that there was a solution. [[The president calls.]] The professional process is, I'm sorry, and I just want people to be afraid to tell me what's in the box. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Should the frame be unplugged or not? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to have clear answers about that, because until we get there, there'll be no peace, President. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No peace!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u130	The President's still making a recommendation. Congress on respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u131	A respectable president. I had waited so long that I allowed myself to talk to the highest level. Minister in the hall. It's kind of interesting to listen to the discussion here. It is true that there has been a way of bringing some type of work to work in connection with this process that made us, at least, not arguing about the form, but dealing with the subject. This experiment hasn't worked out very well. I got it. I got it. Councilmen, antiauthorists, think only back on what it was like during the last term. This is not to say that the last government has applied everything when it came to the formality. We've been arguing about it, not just now, but before. It is perfectly false that this is the way of a respectable president of the United States of America to agree with the recruitment party. [[Up front.]] That's a complete lie. They're sending a case for review. [[Foreground on: Yes,...]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] Here we go, Mr. Honorable President. Every now and again, members of Congress say that it was a form of consent to putting priming options in use. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the perfect nonsense, the respectable President. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u132	A respectable president. Same way you did. The head of the professional road committee has introduced the case as he did, i.e. The back door, he can, along with the greater part, apparently supporting this and being very concerned that this route will be gone, will decide that this option will be activated. How much time do members of Parliament get to discuss the matter? Half an hour. Senators get half an hour to discuss this if the government of Iceland now decides to place four additional benefits. Do people feel that it is an acceptable saying? Would it not have been better to submit a bill that would receive three discussions if people were so concerned with being the most in activation? I agree with the words they were told earlier that they should have a judge in them, so that if they don't think of it, they should cancel a frame plan. They have plenty more to do so if they want to go to the war that comes with it. That's for damn sure. So if it's the highest. Minister wants to agree with the Environment Minister, that this is an acceptable treatment - which she has not expressed. [[The president calls.]] Is it okay with this morning's trial, from whether it should wait for one year or not? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The treatment here is what matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u133	A respectable president. With the substance as the highest. A minister of finance, president of the Independence Party, presented earlier with gold Falls as much as possible between classes, and sends a proposal for the activation of Gold Falls for comment now and agree in a second discussion. Such serious abuse of power is in the ideologies the Independence Party has set before us. I welcome your manhood in the highest. Environment Minister who spoke clearly about waiting for the next year's proposals. But I must declare the responsibility of the prefect of the Independence Party that it is not possible to form the political agreement for principles that bind all classes, of general laws that bind our hands in political agreements to create peace in the country. I must declare the responsibility of the Independence Party for protecting ambushers from ambushing to deal with nature protection in the country and for the fact that they are acting out of nonexistent Congress, carrying secrets, and sending secrets that no one has seen to it. This is not an example of this in Icelandic Congress. [[The president calls.]] Sad to say, the Independence Party thus violates all political activity in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u134	A respectable president. It is true that I as a senator can offer all kinds of suggestions here. I'm suggesting that the language of national language be Swedish or people wear their pants over their pants, so I witness in a very nice movie by Woody Allen. I can also suggest that it activates the use of Gold Falls. The question is, if I were to be pointed to it at some point in the highest. The minister of the country, or president of the Generals, or anyone else, that there was a process, a code of law focused on how we decide to activate the Golden Falls and I might be, even though it was only polite, asked to respect that law code? Are we living in that environment? If the government wants to further activate, if they want to put more priming options into a category, then there are special requirements in the law that I'm talking about in relation to how to do it, how to move priming options between classes, how to change the proposal of the Commission. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A minister can make such a suggestion, take it in a review process, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why not? [[The president calls.]] Why not respect the law? [[The president calls.]] That is the basic question left in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u135	Mr. President. I think it would be a relief, though late, to the highest. The secretary of finance and the head of the professional board will read the laws on the framework, the laws on the protection and energy efficiency programmes. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson wants instructions on the rules of his law to break. I'm sure it will turn out to him. In the 5th. says about waiting party: In the waiting category of protection and energy efficiency programmes, activation options are falling, which are thought to provide further information on... In this case it is now available to do so. The task management itself has reasoned its conclusions to Ministers by not changing the position of two of the three activations in lower part of Turbulence, etc. The Minister of Environment has agreed to this conclusion of the project by simply suggesting an inactivation. Hv. So, senator, this would be against Count Five. This would be completely against 10. Gr., this would result in the public's rights to information it contains. This is probably also a violation of environmental assessment laws, and this is in opposition to the legalization of the International Convention that guarantees this right to the public in the environment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u136	A respectable president. Directors, such as the highest. Environment Minister, cannot pretend that a frame plan is relevant to them if they are content with this process. In effect, that's the way to ask the members of this room if they're just stupid. You can't, that's perfect logic. No such suggestion is found in a publication. Yes, there were delegates, and I've asked some of them and I've been looking for this proposal. It doesn't seem to exist, so I wondered what was sent to review and to whom. Where do you find the documents on this? What should we do here if we are going to discuss this materially? This is a statement to a party in a town before the Senate itself is allowed to see a document containing the idea. If it's a legitimate contingency, I'm sure there's a device here to make all sorts of refuge in the high Council and there's plenty of tools for it. If it's a good work plan, I wonder what on earth people would call a bad job. Now I don't even have time to go back to the program that is another scandal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is ridiculous, Mr. Honorable President. [[The president calls.]] If it's okay, what isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u137	A respectable president. Because here's a lot of talk about the past term and the way we were doing it, let's go over it a little bit. According to the legal process, the project administration offered proposals for the existing industrial minister, the one being present, and the local Environment Minister on how it proposed a waiting, practical, and protective intervention. This proposal remained unchanged in a 12-week narrative. After that, it was apparent that a few of the ten activations in the suggestions received very much and many comments. At that time, political advisers were advised to make a decision on how to hone the headlines. The decision was made that those who received the most serious criticism should enter a waiting party, thereby asking the task management to reevaluate these benefits with regard to the reports that came out of this legal process. [[The president calls.]] It was all a mess, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] And from the task management board, a proposal is made for one of these. [[The president calls.]] Then they're going to go out and join some people, even those things that haven't even been covered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u138	A respectable president. This may be of little importance in this discussion, but here members of Congress have repeatedly said that at a later hearing in the matter of Congress. only five minutes, 30 minutes. To that information, there is a second cover. Congress proposals were the same as 2nd. about bills, it can last forever. [[Up front.]] It's 20 minutes, a respectable president, it's 10 minutes and it's five minutes long. [[The point is, do we want to?]] No way. [[The point is, do we want to?]] No, but let's have what's true, right? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u139	So let's just take it from twelve to seven, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u140	A respectable president. Work with a frame plan didn't start last year. It didn't start in the last term. The job's been going on for more than 20 years. The treatment process was then sealed here by a crosspolitic framework legislation. In case of a case. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, the director of the professional trade committee, has been able to accomplish all that work. At that work, the generals, ministers, local authorities, players, and experts arrived in scores. There is an abundance of work to be done, a good job, that is not to be thrown out of the window in some sort of instant decision, but to follow the process and listen to the top. Because it recommends sticking to the process we had agreed on. And that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u141	V.E.G. President. When you listen to this discussion, you wonder if members of the Parliament in general know what the World Council is. [[The point is, do you know it?]] [[Please state: Tell us.]] I think I know more about it than many others who have been here for a very long time. [[Say, "Tell us...]] I'm sure I know more than a lot of people here about it. [[Set it up: bring it.]] I can tell you this, it's obvious that the rules of handling in the box are, of course, turning to the administration. Of course, when a matter comes to the council, the Constitution and the Constitution - it's very strange that you want to go to the Constitution, to belittle it. - Of course, that's the way it is. Then there can be some view that it should be handled differently at the council. [[Up front.]] Don't interrupt. These procedures apply to the administration. If they don't like it, they can bring it in here, but Congress is in here. And humans can make any bill, whatever it is. þm. Of course, Guðmundur Steingrimurson can offer a bill for wearing panties on his pants. [[The president calls.]] This would be in harmony with other bills that have come from that category. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u142	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Environment Minister earlier said that the post of the Power Agency dated January 20th, two days ago, does not exist in the Ministry of Environment and Resources. That's wrong. This letter is addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Resources and will be booked in the Ministry's case file. It's about the interpretation of the Power Institute and the understanding that they have on the framework laws and there they present under the laws of some kind, one 88, if I recall correctly what the Minister has said earlier. It's the legal process. And as well as what a former environmental minister did with his letter to the project, the project manager was given a suggestion but did not rely on resisting the proposal of the Commission and therefore offered just one option. This is another confirmation that the way this is offered is not in line with the framework. That's a basic, respectable president. It's about whether the management board is going to get peace to work on that law and go into this routine that has been written in law or whether the General Assembly will prior to that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u143	A respectable president. This review was followed by the breaking of the fifth section of the Committee. Law on a frame plan that discusses the waiting party. I don't think so at all. They review the benefits of waiting, and they need more attention. What trial is the committee here using? She's putting this on for more than that. She is setting this in the same narrative procedure as required by the law that a minister should do so if he makes changes to the results of a frame plan in the same way that was done during his last term. What is it that will be sent to tell us about it? asks here. This, of course, is the proposal presented in the Committee this morning, was adopted by a majority of the Committee, and I have expected to be sent to members of the committee with a review list, which I have considered to be on the agenda for a long proposed committee meeting tomorrow. It is said that the public's arrival is so vague, that it is guaranteed in the laws at the previous stage. We're looking for all the people who want to come here, check with anyone who wants to give a review on this matter, and entertain the committee who wants to come and discuss these matters. [[The president calls.]] On the basis of that conclusion, we will finally make our suggestion. [[The president calls.]] So here's the deal. [[The president calls.]] It's got to have what's true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u144	President. What I find serious about this case is, as we've been through many times and also appeared before the year, the informal activity around it, there's no document, and there's no real thing I can look at. And that the meeting has not been scheduled, I find it amazing because it is exactly the same conversation we had here in November. Then came the situation to the point. A senator was made back again with such a suggestion. I don't know what's changed. I wondered, " Is this part of the traditional political game that will eventually be adopted to take two instead of five, or three instead of five or one? ' I don't like this kind of practice. Like earlier, I wish to receive clear answers from the highest level. The secretary of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party to see if the box has been unplugged and if any adjustments are made to a Congress resolution that is not even on the council's program. [[The president calls.]] What kind of work are these, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]] Is that how we're supposed to do nothing in the Senate and the procedure we're used to here at the council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If I am, Mr President, if that's the message from the President. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it the message, Mr. President, that we should not respect the Senate?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u145	It's a message from the President about going to the Senate. There was a clear message to the president of the United States earlier, and he reasoned with it and referred to the Congress Act and to the Iceland Constitution. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u146	Mr. President. I ask myself, " Is this the case worth going through? ' It has often been said about the respect of the Generals, and I don't think it's the idea that people are going to back it all up to a red death. I was glad to hear the words that were spoken. Environment Minister earlier, but I'd rather hear the highest. The Environment Minister said clearly that it was by means of a legal means that energy efficiency will pass through a project and we will wait for a suggestion there to be no support for the evil that is coming from the Chairman of the White House. Business committee. Hv. The head of the professional cartel cannot accept the position of the minister in this case and intend to install a double system. He wants to put on twice the system in this case. It's not legal, and we should stop it at once and not offer it, neither to ourselves, nor to the Senate, nor to the people of the land, on such a work ethic, uncool work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Could I, as a senator, put in a review of this case an unorthodox practice and request it tomorrow on a professional committee? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may well be that I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u147	A respectable president. Any homemate in any amateur society, in any elementary school, does not put a big issue out of a meeting without their scheduled schedule. But the President of Generalis does not trust to have such order in his own house. It is absolutely amazing that a four - large, controversial activation option can be made and put out of a committee without the offer of a program made by members of the committee. It is so perfectly below all the caves that it is amazing that members of Congress are invited here to make an example that anything can be planned at any time has been planned. Since anything can be taken on a schedule without it being there, there is no reason to publish an committee meeting. [[The president calls.]] However, after this discussion, we know that the Independence Party believes that they are free of the law they are participating in because they only have the Constitution and their conscience, and they do not have to comply with the laws they themselves have elected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u148	President. I must say that I found the verdict of a respectable president somewhat in oracle style. He said what we all know that the senators can make adjustments in a matter during a council hearing, but he did not answer the question, Is the procedure we were given this morning on a professional committee compatible with a good political routine? Rather, he pointed out that some proposal would be presented at a meeting of the employment committee in the morning. What did the Speaker mean? Is the senator willing to accept the work we were given on a professional committee this morning? Is that a question for the Speaker? Yes or no? That's what the question is. It is not about whether or not we have permission to make adjustments. But don't they need to be written, dignified president? Don't others need to know what they're about? Don't committees need to know what should be on the schedule the following day?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u149	A respectable president. I'd like to take a quote at 1st. Section 8. Congress code, which says, by permission of presidents: ▪ Forsetit is in charge of discussions, making sure that things are done in good order. He shall make sure that the work of the council is in accordance with the regulations of the Constitution, convocations, and other laws. and 81rd For one thing, it is about whether other laws have been performed. Then I have to say, a respectable president, that it is strange to come in here after any intermission as a deputy, and to witness the verbal scandals that are taking place, that the president should agree that the matter is settled from a council committee without having been planned there. It so violates common sense, and just as any individual amongst them thinks they know how to be a member of society to be amazed. And that the president should lay down so low and give this example to pay attention to Councilman Jón Gunnarsson, president of the Professional Board, that is a resounding scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u150	Mr. President. I'm gonna come up here and I'm gonna bust the same knee as my party sisters, okay? The senators Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and Ólína Þorvarðardóttir. And I want to know if it's the highest. The President feels that the management committee is in order. We decided, the smaller part after the election, to work in accordance with the terms of Congress, the changes made during the last term, and to participate in the management of the committees. We have faithfully cared for this and have applied ourselves in committees to the success of those who pay and in the most personal interest. If, on the other hand, it is normal to put on a big issue without being announced in advance, then the less part would be to reevaluate its cohesiveness in the commission work and be somewhat more alert to bullies that will probably seem to be used, and the President of IIis is now blessing him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u151	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson mentioned it earlier that he himself would become Private and personally make sure that as many as possible found out about the plot he was going to put his ideas into. So there's a law in the country about this exactly. It's called a law on a protection and energy efficiency programme in Article 10. Their laws are carefully reviewed and if they appear, they have not actually occurred; they have some ideas. For one thing, it says that a project management - not why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson - seeking consultation and professional assistance with institutions, partners, stakeholders, and others that might be involved. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: After a review and after a discussion, the Commission will take a position on existing applications and introduce the above proposals for a protection and energy efficiency programme and will advertise it in a national newspaper published on the national reference sheet and on their website. So this is not in the hands of a professional committee or individual senators, under Icelandic law approved here at the General Assembly, but in a very detailed process described here in Article 10. songs that are intended to break right, left by choice today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u152	A respectable president. The senator standing here did not sit at the General Assembly during the last term but has sat here today, as in so many times before, under the discussion that because of the fact that something has happened during the last term of some members of the council, it is okay not to keep order on things and traditions and even laws. I'd like to emphasize that we here at council respect the law and if we are going to suggest a suggestion or come along and accept laws that are in conflict with other laws, we will begin by suggesting that the law be changed to them. I'd like to remind you that 8th. Congress, 5 / 1 mg., says the President oversees the job of members of Congress, and I want to present a big question mark in the introduction of such a big matter. A program is published so that members of the Parliament can prepare for a meeting of committees and know what the program is. If we have passed 2nd cases, where a case can be taken up without knowing it beforehand, we might as well drop the program, have everything under the title of a case, or take seriously the fact that we have passed another matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u153	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Óttar Proppé was just here quoting 8 g. Parliamentary song, 5 mg. It says, by permission of the president: The work of nominated committees is under the supervision of Directorsets, cr. Il. section. He establishes general rules about the committee body of committees and services, having agreed with the committees and members of Congress. A committee may ask the president's decision on understanding or carrying out regulations that have been established on committees. So I suggest that, on the basis of this law of Congress, we take the highest station. President down with a job board and reviews the procedure, how the proposal was submitted and determined as to whether this is a procedure that works properly for the Council, whether it is to be followed, whether it is even here to create a new rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u154	A respectable president. This, however, has taken place in this discussion today and since this morning that some things have been clarified, though preferably that they are not at the moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson alone has been accused of in what process this case has become. This was explained by the fact that the whole matter could be settled in the month after lunch, as did the members of the administrative body, and so on. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has been sent to the scene with a message from the government and the government, from the greater part of it, that this should be done exactly as it is suggested and forwarded to the Supreme Court. Department of Social Affairs emphasizes this fact. [[Up front.]] However, what is disappointing in this matter is that despite the greatest. During the last term, the president has been in a position of government, not on his team to make action difficult and to introduce certain vices, but at the highest level, he is disappointed. However, the president should not use more than he has done to try to prevent what is taking place here and to make peace so that everyone can be reasonably comfortable with pleasures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u155	A respectable president. Hv. A senator and the chairman of the Party of Independence stated earlier that she felt it was the right thing to do in a later issue. About the Senate proposals, we would have half an hour and then an endless five minutes. But that may be exactly what we want to avoid. That is exactly what took place during the last terms of the council and did not increase its respect. True, we have an endless five minutes, but I ask: " Is this really the case of Independence and the forwards? We have a mission control. I can't understand why they put it that way. What was a frame plan for? What's she gonna show up to? That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is in a position to make a professional assessment that it is good to send four additional initiatives when the Commission has said that it does not believe that there is enough professional evaluations behind it yet and that the former environmental secretary agreed? [[The president calls.]] But, hey. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson knows better, so he sends four other options as a review and believes that enough discussion has been made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u156	A respectable president. It was pointed at here by a lawyer, who loves to tell us about us here, and it's fine for someone to do so, that a frame plan was primarily about how the management board should behave. I heard it quite clearly earlier, and I was very glad to hear it, to the highest. Environment Minister doesn't think it's time to change the motion as then the highest. Environment Minister, her predecessor, proposed in the fall. I think it would only help with everything and lighten the atmosphere here at the council if it was confirmed that this proposal would be taken to treat and handled normally. The job committee and whether it comes from the head of the Committee or someone else, that they will be made to wait more time and that they will be treated in a more formal way than has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u157	A respectable president. It is indeed difficult to see that this issue is being restored to the program with exactly the same rhythm as the last one. Finally, independents were fighting over who was worthy to be a government minister. However, the only change that has taken place is the fact that rather than adding eight benefits, five are proposed. Really, that's the only difference between the treatment, the way it's done, and the rest of it. The difference, however, is that at the Ministerial Class, it is not the book of Aphrodin's Skarphéðinsson in many copies, but it is the way it is, and something we need to remember and act, that we put ourselves to be worth something about progress and construction. If a Congress proposal is accepted on a weak legal basis, it does not top the current law. I'm asking the government's party to wonder what position the Congress conformity proposal has with all its warnings, if there are instruments that are clear in their legal requirements, i.e. if the proposal is suddenly taken from the minister himself and placed on the table of the head of the trade board. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What situation, then, does such a decision have, and if it is willing to go this way, what part of the council will make such an important decision? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u158	A respectable president. As people remember, we asked for a secret written vote because they were behind their words about a system in the RUS administration two years ago. This was in order to give governments a chance to conform to their convictions and consciences according to a Constitution of secret votes. This won one of the directors, and the list of government officials won that vote. Then, a respected president, last year, the executives, showed their partner how he had voted in secret written votes. I believe, a respectable president, that there is an illegal execution of a secret written vote. In the court of the Supreme Court for election to the Council, a rich obligation is made to the successful election to ensure that the election is secretly elected. This she does not do if people have been shot to show their creditors. I therefore request, a respectable president, that the secret vote be held in a side room and that members of the council have a chance to vote in private, as it were in secret votes. [[Up front.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] If the president does not see to it, I believe he should declare it in the hearing to show his secret votes to members of Congress, they would deny the vote and must repeat it, for a secret vote must be secret. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u159	This vote is held according to the council and the rules that have been valid in implementing a comparable vote as long as the oldest men remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u160	A respectable president. It is essential that a secret vote for the state radio administration should be held because the greater part of the program has a tradition that has remained true for as long as the oldest men remember, i.e. He went back to an agreement made with the executives of the Commission in the summer of 2013 regarding an increase in the number of representatives in the RUS government who were to pass over all the government groups of one agent. Since then, political groups have resorted to emancipation and have attempted to use emancipation. It did not succeed for the first time, last year, to ensure that 2/3 parts of the U.S. government votes, even though behind them at the Assembly Hall is only 51% of the population. Therefore, I would like to encourage members of the board to respect what has been acceptable as long as the oldest men remember in a Senate hall, that men are standing in political, intervening laws. Today, members of the council are given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u161	A respectable president. It is tragic that in order to have a secret vote in the RUS government, there is no way to make an agreement about a fair division of government and opposition to a nine - man government in which the regime has four representatives and the five administrative body. No, it has to be so that the administrative sector has increased its share, unfortunately, because it could otherwise be concluded in a good agreement. The rationalization given by the government groups for changing the government so that political agents were represented there was that the government should reflect the general mass, the greater part, and the smaller parts of the council, and the government would be such normal representatives of the nation. What then happens when the board starts working and carefully warns e.g. Governments are aggressive to the plans that appeared on a budget bill last year? [[The president calls.]] They don't listen to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u162	President. Yes, the president is sorry to get confused, but there is nothing odd about what has been going on here. It's with a lot of mind I'm here because the government decided to betray an agreement that all classes would have a representative in the RUS administration. I find it shocking that the deputy named Piratar, author Pétur Gunnarsson, will not be given the opportunity to show the width needed to such an important institution. I challenge any member of the board to follow now his heart and his conviction that we live here in a representative democracy, not a majority of things, as sadly reflected in a secret vote last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u163	A respectable president. I always find it strange to listen to independents talking about the state radio not being independent, especially when they complain at the same time that RUS is so left-handed and then the EU and then it seems that they need as much control over the Agency as possible. It's interesting to me all the time that every time we vote for the RuV, the room's full of shit right now. It is as if independent men in particular, but the government in general does everything within its power to ensure that the State Radio is as separate as possible. Whether it's in votes like this or by threatening cutouts for unpleasant reporting or whatever it is, I always feel a little bit sad when I sit here and vote for how the media in this country should be done. We should be trying to separate the authority of the General Assembly from the State Radio with more than that. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u164	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir At the beginning of the Helgi of Hjörvar, he made it clear that some members of the council had not followed their convictions. He also claimed that some senators had been showing off on paper. Where it is. A senator is now a self-signed campaign officer here at the Senate Hall, and I'd like to report to the Supreme Court. The president here has always followed his convictions here in votes and will also do so in this vote; he also has not shown and will not do so. Just to tell you what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, an independent campaign officer here at the council, the man standing here has always had the honor of choosing according to his convictions and working on the law of the Generals. And I just wanted to report the government's campaign manager, okay? paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, here at the beginning of the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u165	Yeah, this is what I call an active surveillance. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I'm completely incomprehensible why the current government is not ready to reflect the General Assembly, i.e. In what way the classes have been elected here. That's not exactly what you're doing here. This means the government groups with 2/3 parts votes for the government of the State Radio, which is not the following that these groups received in their last elections. This is done at the expense of Pirata's representatives, so the decision is being made here that this government is going to go beyond the votes, have more and more, and push a representative of Porta out of being able to participate in the state's operations. A respectable president. I think the government groups and their members here owe us to tell us why they put so much emphasis on this, that they always fill a chamber in this vote; I think it's scary in a democracy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u166	Mr. President. In Parliamentary elections of committees, etc. and, among other things, in the management of RUV, members of Congress are allowed to call for such a vote to be written in writing. I asked the members of the council if she was a secret person in that case, and that is the case. The question must be, and the president is responsible for the implementation of that vote: If the vote is not secret, what is the lawsuit, what happens? We've watched that the senators are showing one another their vote, that they're breaking a political law in favor of the vote. Shouldn't the president be informed, don't you have to vote again? Or is it all right here at the General Assembly to break a Senate law when it's chosen if this election is to be classified?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u167	For this reason, the president would like to draw attention to the arrangement for an election of the kind to be held here at 82 C.E. Parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u168	A respectable president. We're now on our one more trip to vote for the government of the state radio. This is one story of many about the conflict between this government and will be written in the list of accounts for the government. It was that way. The opinion was expressed by the minister of education and menningarmálaráðherra, Illugi Gunnarsson, and it was expressed in words of urgency. The head of the General and menntamálanefnd Committee, Dr. Unnur of Conspiracy's daughter, from the Generals hearing that it was the understanding of the Minister and that it was their understanding that here should be four representatives from the government stand to ensure this breadth and this harmony. [[Up front.]] [[It was a perfect peace...]] [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] Then there was a familiar appeal at the highest. Prime Minister. He did not recognize the matter. [["Icezave"?]] Here came every man on his feet, the head of the House of forwarders came here to talk about a misunderstanding, the president of the World and Education Committee, came here and drew his first words back, etc. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Once again, we are branding in this pride of power, a respectable president, who was the first time chosen by the Government Radio Board, one of the general members of the administration, had the courage to die in secret elections. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I challenge the same person who turned the sheet between elections to do it again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u169	Mr. President. On May 22, 2013, the highest power was signed. Bjarni Benediktsson and the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson of the Government Convention, which says that the government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and community discussions for some time. They soon began to change things that had been done during the previous period, including the State Radio Act. It was stated that there would be seven representatives of the United Kingdom Radio Directors under the bill of Ministers, but after negotiations, it was decided that the representatives would be nine so that all the government groups would have their representatives. This agreement was made here at the council, followed by paradoxes, women from the head of the administration team, and brought here in no uncertain terms and demeaning manner. It's a betrayal. It's a distraction. It's a suspicion. I encouraged the senator who had the courage to accept the agreement to do so today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u170	A respectable president. I think the first mistake was made when the decision was made to restore the political regime. I think it was a good job that the former government did when she put this controversial arm length, including that. from the media so that he could work a little independent of the politics. However, this is the case with the government's need for more part in this committee. Why is there now a little mystery, except perhaps to lay it down as the whisper is here regularly, that there is reason to do so. [[The point is, " Whispering"? It's called.]] Or called in public squares. Happily, the government administration of the State Radio has stood on its feet with the government. [[Up front.]] No. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir said earlier, and I've been here several times in a speech, that's the divisive thing the government thinks they're going to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This has been true even now. ... makinga decision this morning on a professional board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u171	Mr. President. This debate is not a matter of the fact that the government groups are having a show of authority or a violation of an agreement. If there's no agreement, there's no deal. [[Up front.]] That's the way it is. Clearly, there is no agreement on how to vote for this government. Then there's nothing more to discuss. Then we'll take the rules. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] The rules are that the governments during the last term with 25 members of Congress received 38 members of the election. As a result, in nine committees, the administrative body can get six members of the Parliament according to the rules. That's the result if you follow the rules. Here it is called "powerlessness." The fact is, the greater part has left a smaller section of the Council of Presidency in various committees and vices in various committees... [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[For example, consider the following: A grave of no rules by independents?]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, Mr President, I don't know it was that way. [[The president calls.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just like that, huh? Chairman...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u172	Sounds in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u173	[[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] Hv. The chairman of the Conspiracy...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u174	Let's keep it quiet in the councilroom and what's happening. Thereafter, members of Congress have freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u175	All this discussion is before you. The head of the Conspiracy is the result of the horror he paid in his last election. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u176	A respectable president. It's not complicated. Konráðsdóttir Conspiradósdóttir, chairman of the Independence Party, declared in the General's symposium that an agreement was made on the part of the Independence Party and the Superintendent at the opposition to the Church of Government that Piratars would get this one man. [[Up front.]] Let's say it. We have been taught to get used to the predecessors of this Bjarni son of Benediktsson that such declarations on the part of the Independence Party thought that they could be trusted with the Declarations of the Independence Party and with contracts handled by him. [[Up front.]] It takes just one senator, and they don't have to show their tickets to make sure that the word of the Independence Party is held, that treaties are held, and that these are divided as described in the platform. I remind you, there is no obligation in the board of directors to vote one. The members of the Independence Party have not been bound by paying votes with the candidate party's debt. The Prosecutors have not been bound to vote with Bjarna Bjarni of Benediktsson. Clearly, members of the members of the administrations are free to conform to their convictions. [[The president calls.]] All it takes is one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u177	A respectable president. I kind of see myself compelled to come back here after a review and an explanation of history at the top. Financial and economic ministers. He thinks it's such a word for the highest. Secretary of education in the leading of the situation back then and again. The head of the General and Education Committee that it was a democratic approach--I'm not talking about some d'Hondt principle, I'm just talking about a democratic approach to the case--that four representatives of the government resistance get access to the RUS, that it was just some kind of joke? [[What were they?]] Is that so? Is that so, a respectable president, to word the highest? The financial and economic ministers are so weighed down against the words and handshands that are here made and spoken. þm. Brá, the daughter of Conspiracy, who made the agreement in the General Meeting's symposium? [[Up front.]] Doesn't it matter? And it can be the highest. And the Minister of Education and Culture has confirmed that no such agreement has taken place? [[The president calls.]] Can he do it under the heel at the highest. Prime Minister? [[The president calls.]] And not for the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u178	Mr. President. I think we know all the stories that were in the council at the time. I was in the audience listening to the president of the General and Education Committee declare it. I heard members of the members of the Congress apologize for not being able to stand up to the agreement from this chair that they had already done, especially the prime minister, had done this fine thing. Councilmen all part of their word, so that the administrative body can get two thirds of the government's members in RUS. What was the purpose of the increase in the government? Was this so that the government's share would get two additional members of the government's salary? Everyone sees it's such a ridiculous saying that it doesn't work out. It is most honorable for those in charge to acknowledge that they did not control the political situation, and they chose to betray the agreement and make their own spokesmen and officials in the council dissuade their words rather than settle themselves between how they handled the matter. Why? Because this is where a council and a nation appear in their most naked form, the corrupt 50 - part divisions. [[The president calls.]] It has to be 50-50. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u179	A respectable president. I think you're absolutely right. The minister of finance has made this statement, and all this discussion shows that there is a complete agreement on this matter, and there are interpretations of what has been done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u180	There was no deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u181	No, it's perfectly obvious that it's not, more dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u182	Why the government increased?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u183	Under the treatment of the case, a proposal was made to increase by two from seven. [[Up front.]] I have never made any comment about the fact that the transition should be somehow different from the way it appears in the Senate and by the rules we have of voting in committees. It is a ridiculous, respectable president, to suggest that there is some form of abuse of power or of majority abuse that is chosen here in the chamber, here fall a vote, and then it reflects the strength of Congress, so that the rule we have, as we call a d'Hondt rule, can be carried out as in other votes. This matter cannot be approached so that there is some abuse of power in it, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u184	A respectable president. This is where we'll talk about terms in the state of RuV. When the law was changed that we're about to vote for right now, I was the head of the case on the General and Education Committee. Then the biggest discussion of the matter was that we were changing it because it would not be guaranteed enough basis in the management of RUS, representatives would not come from enough fields and so on. Then I told the public speaker that I was ready to consider increasing the size of the board, including the board. to put in more and more representatives of the staff. This was the main subject of conversation. As a result, I offered my own adjustment proposal that we are paying votes to increase by two. It was never said of an agreement or of how to divide groups. Rather, it was done to improve the management process. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u185	V.E.G. President. I hope we can begin this multi-counted vote. But because there was a less comment in the Assembly Hall, it is true, of course, and it is recommended by the council. I made a statement that there is an agreement between classes that there would be the same ratios between administration and opposition at this vote. It is wrong that the chairman of the branch office in the left green suggested that I had quoted the words of a minister of education there. I didn't. It can be read on the news. I referred to a convention of members of the administrations, and I had assured myself that there was a valid agreement. Then, when it became clear that this was a mistake and wrong, they came up here and personally apologized to me for having made me say something that was wrong. However, there is good reason for the tribunals, when quoting the talks, to be sure that what they claim is said because this is wrong. Of course, people need to read a little bit before taking such a stand in a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u186	A respectable president. There are ways to promote the independence of a Kingdom publisher. However, they lead, not by bringing the government of the political media closer to politics, but away, as was done, but then by the government. The threat of gambling and then the survival of it because the media is not considered suitable enough to promote any mass independence. Hence, it is not credible when governments suggest that the solution is to sell VOLV from time to time. The board wants to destroy RUV so that there's no other option, so it's obvious. When it comes to this mismanagement that occurred at the time, there were seven directors, four of whom were from the government, three from a position of government. It was not Martyrs who began their discussion to get their man to the end that we do not believe that the politics are supposed to run State Radio or any other media, if that is the case. It came from the government to increase the number of government directors in the management board, with more than the same number of government standards. [[The president calls.]] The government is now 67% director of the RUS, while the first arrangement was 57%, which is much closer to 51.1% followed by the current government in the last election. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u187	A respectable president. I think there's good reason to recall even further, just so it's completely arranged, what the sequence of events was at the beginning of the season. RUSH was required to represent seven agents. Then an agreement was made, and everybody agreed on it on the General and Education Committee that they should be nine, all groups agree on it. Right away. The head of the General and Education Committee, Dr. Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttsdótttir, introduced the adjustment proposal, she said, with permission of presidents: I would like to state here that there is an agreement that there is an increase, but the proportions will be the same, so that the five administrative groups are shiped, but the four administration points. That's the thought behind that law, trying to get more width into the government. That sounds like music to me. This is a good support for having the government of nine people, getting more width into it. [[The president calls.]] I've never heard the argument over why these good plans were compromised. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u188	A respectable president. Because of the highest. The minister of financial matters and the head of the Independence Party has come up here and said words, as well as words of the highest degree. A minister of education would now do well if they came back here in the public chair and told us why they put so much emphasis on making three of their senators to the indistinguishable agreement that has been made here. A senator before, why do they try to call out all their teams each time they are chosen for State Radio in order to be sure to get their more part through. Why work so hard, as humans are obviously doing for the third time now, in order to get six people to, 67%, in the government of the TV? Tell us why. What is it, a respectable president, who makes the government feel it necessary to have 67% of the state's executives on TV and put all of this into place? [[The president calls.]] It would be nice to have an answer because I'm going to reiterate it: I don't like it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u189	Mr. President. I'd like to testify, by permission of the President, in the words of why. paritaprevir In this sermon, Brá of the Konráðsdóttir of July 3, 2013, she said: Oh, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I wanted to go to the end of the discussion about this subject, on VOLV, quickly to review just the key points that are important for those who have in mind a vote on this subject. It is true that changes have been made. - And what? A senator, on the other hand, runs two different proposals that a representative of the staff should be in charge and then says, by permission of the president: Then there are also two changes that involve the same thing, that, instead of being elected by seven men, will be nine. I'd like to state here that there's an agreement that there's an increase, but the odds will be the same, so that the five members of the board, but the four administration points, they will be the same. That's the thought behind that law, trying to get more width into the government. It's this deal. þm. In July 3, 2013, here on July 3, the daughter of Brá Consley, who was the daughter of Consecrates, moved to the council, which is now breaking. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u190	A respectable president. It's kind of special to hear what you're saying. The government of opposers is speaking here. Now's the time. paritaprevir By reviewing the situation, Konráðsdóttir Konsley's wife had already reviewed her apology because there was a certain misunderstanding, but still seems to be someone - I don't know what to use, but we can put it this way that the government opposers would not like to come up here and say again and again. Councilmen have been a sign of their words. Then there's another: It's taken care of that it's well paid off. Hv. A member of the government stand said that this was quite terrifying. [[The point is, what kind of...?]] I'm looking over the hall, it's very well-behaved by reason. A government stand, except, of course, should be paid a vote. It's also scary to see so many whales. Senators of the Board of Overseers here? [[Take it right once.]] [[Up front.]] I don't think so. I think it's quite exemplary. Senators of the government stand up so well, just role models. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u191	A respectable president. During the discussion here in the first part of July 2013, the current council leader of the Independence Party was speaking. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, as follows: The first and last time I'm going to ask my colleague, Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, I'm sorry that in this way I gave her a message that others then talk about and make her an unproved member of a Ponta. First and last time, I'll ask what. Konráðsdóttir IBrá sorry about that. I'm sorry about the misunderstanding. I spoke to him at a council meeting this morning, and I don't have much to do about him. I also ask other council members to whom I spoke on this matter apologize for my comments that there is no agreement. At the same meeting, just a few minutes earlier, a sieve said so. paritaprevir Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, now the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: ▪ The one mentioned here likely considered the exchange to be five from the ruling class and four from the side of the ruling. This information was based on a misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]] Here I have quoted three members, including one of the current ministers, who confirm that there is no doubt that an agreement is being violated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u192	Mr. President. I have to say, it kind of gives me a panic, this hard-collar executive in protecting that they need some increase in the number of parts in the radio administration. What's behind it? They'd have more than a fraction if Pirat's agent came in there and this is what I think is weak democracy and what we're trying to do, i.e. to increase the government democracy. We know that the current government has much more, and they will continue to have more part in the government of the State Radio, since they made the decision to turn it into a political government, which had been disarmed by the political bitch during the last term. Their great enthusiasm for not having that width makes me feel a threat to government democracy, and I don't think that would bring honor to the council. I also challenge the officials of the government to look inside and know if they can't stand by the fact that every member of the U.S. government is represented by the state radio administration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u193	Mr. President. I think there is reason to stress that, according to the nature of the case, it was most harmless that this agreement would be betrayed because it in itself is based on a long tradition at the council of paying the street that all councils and all views are at the table on many important fronts. History abounds with examples of changes in the commission, increases in committees to ensure the lesser or the smallest members of the council. [[Up front.]] So it was that when little members of Congress did not have the power to get in there, they were often raised to a financial committee. An example of this is the time of the Women's List at the council, so many people with this democratic argument have seen the importance that, in some cases, it would be good, convenient, and reasonable for all members of the council to represent themselves. [[Up front.]] I'm not afraid of the image of the government parties in front of us. I feel sorry for the officers of the board. [[The president calls.]] I find their political insignia so pathetic that they can't... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u194	A respectable president. I'm asking senators to ask them a few questions. Why was the government determined to increase from seven to nine? Why was there a pact of change made among all agents of the General and Education Committee? Was it so that the Specialist Party could get three agents and the Three Independence Party, that groups that received approximately 51% in elections could get 67% members in this important institution? [[Up front.]] Is that what it was for? Was it the content of the agreement on the General and Education Committee? Or could it be that men had agreed on a universal and educational committee to increase from seven to nine because they needed to increase the width of representatives in the government, that since they were going to have a politicalized government, all classes at the council would be represented in this government? Could it not be that it was the basis of the agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u195	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister has not seen a reason to appear on the platform and to explain why the advance party does not consider the representative democracy any more than he does. Why was the agreement made at the time of government opposition not held? I think he owes it to the people to come on the platform, not to make any noise from their seats, but to make it clear to them why, in effect, the people at the Council are not supposed to have representatives on public radios. This is the radio of all the people of the country, public service, security equipment, and I don't understand - the balance of power is so precious that people put their words behind them and have to guarantee the balance of independence and the forwarding of state radio administration? Is the agreement between the packs not better than that, so it must be protected at all fronts? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's this board going to do, what's the top one? The prime minister was afraid that he would be there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u196	A respectable president. We've discussed this well, this is the third time we choose this government, and the government is not ready to yield. It is interesting to read in one of the polls how to react. The secretary of finance for this, and then I'm looking at the fact that we're talking about whether Piratars get agents. Secretary of finance said, with the permission of the President: Four years ago, the United States gathered together and the left green and joined the newly elected members of the movement that was then in a position of government. What for? To minimize the share of the Independence Party and the forwarding party in all committees, in all international work, throughout the term for four years. I wondered if the Independence Party and the forwarding party are not pleased that small groups will have opportunities that otherwise they will not have, as this clearly is. The least group in Congress is to rule out since its spokesman and its voice on TV, the publicist. [[The president calls.]] Why is that? [[The president calls.]] What could happen as an independent party and a forwarding party in this way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u197	I've received two lists, one I mark A, and the other I mark B. Since the president has received more names than the votes, a vote must be made, as is 82. Congress. The vote thus suggests that the members of Congress will be distributed to members of Congress who write either A or B on the register. Parliamentaries will collect the bills. The President repeats those who vote for agents on the A-list, i.e. Special Agents from Special Forces and Independence Class, Journal A. Those who select representatives on the B-list, i.e. The members of the United States, the left green, the bright future and the Pirata, write B on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u198	The outcome of the election is now in place. A-list got 38 votes, B-list got 25 votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u199	A respectable president. I would like to address a few points in a case presented on the top. Prime Minister before the council went on Christmas holiday, a bill to legalize the legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Before I have my material discussion on this subject, I want to draw special attention to the fact that there are only about three years since the council passed a new law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. In 2011, I was personally a part of the appointment as president of the World Committee, which was almost four years ago. There were many changes in the European Commission legislation, including an increase in assistants, which was somewhat controversial and critical of the current government opposition. It was our opinion that the appointed General Board of Directors would be desirable and really necessary to strengthen the political power within the administration, within the Council of Government, to the so - called government, government itself. A discussion on this matter was postponed, a respectable president, immediately after the Supreme Court. It was brought here by the prime minister of Christmas, and I remember no better than that it had just followed the story and had been agreed to the Supreme Court. The discussion would be conducted by the prime minister. I saw the highest. A minister was in the house, and here in the hall just a few moments ago, he may have had to step aside after a difficult and exciting vote on the government of the state radio, but I would like to make it my wish at the highest level. The president said that he was concerned with the ultimate. The prime minister would be present for my speech here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u200	The president proposes that an agreement has been made on this proposal, to the highest level. If the matter was to be replaced, the prime minister spoke for the matter before Christmas break and answered, but then the discussion would be held behind Christmas and at the height of Christmas. Then the prime minister would be there. Therefore, the president will make the clockfall to the highest level. The prime minister is made aware that his presence is requested in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u201	I thank a respectable president for that. That's what matters to me. A minister is there, and I want to make a special statement here, and I just have to get back into a talk about this matter, perhaps not better, so that I can have a word with him about it. In 2011 it was highly critical that the number of helpers is being increased, but it is already the highest. The government presents this issue, saying that it is based on the experience that resulted from the changes - here I am at the highest level. Prime Minister comes to the hall - it is noteworthy that there is no such thing as a number of assistants in the highest bill. The prime minister is now showing. The European Commission's legislation on the European Commission was set up in September 2011 to increase the number of helpers, and it was assessed by the current administrative and international committee at the time that this would be most desirable to support the political power within the advisers, but it is now found to be in spite of the high levels of criticism, including the highest level of criticism. Prime Minister, this is the government leader. paritaprevir The son of Gunnlaugsson, Sigmundur Davíð, said in these words: ▪ Is it normal, then, to place 120 million people on the increase in political assistants of the Ministers at the same time that members of the government stand by no means enough to help unless the leaders are classed? Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who is now chairman of the legal committee, also had doubts: ▪ Is it not a great deal of effort to add 130 million? K. The money fund for assistants when there's a whole cutout? That's when they said the highest. President Illugi Gunnarsson's current minister of education by permission: I'm warning you, Mr. President, that this is the way it is being restored to power and, at the same time, political development is strengthened by increasing the number of helpers, but is not doing anything to ensure that the less part of the council will be established. That's when they said the highest. The minister of the State of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson said that the funds assigned to assist in the hospitals and the more important things, therefore, the General Assembly should be used to vote against this. Of course, the republic's history has never been a government with as many assistants as it is today. Granted, there has never been a prime minister in the country who has had as many assistants as he has today. Prime Minister. Hence, it is especially surprising that this bill does not mention it at all. I would also like to be a subject of some topic on this matter. Without going straight into a case that has been a significant feature of the transfer of the Fish Room, which I later arrive in my speech, I would like to first mention that it is, as it were, to add here 2 gr. The law of a new sentence, which says: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. If this law is legal, a minister may decide where agencies under his office have settled and transferred it if he wishes he would not have to offer the case and reasons for such a decision for the counsel to be discussed and accepted. The bill suggests, among other things, that this was in the first law on the Council of Government, i.e. Following their change in 1999, after the Supreme Court decided that a minister's decision to export the soil readings to Aclin was not supported by law. However, sources to such decisions for a minister have fallen out in 2011 when current laws were made without realizing that they were the intent of the Lawgiver. This must be the question of whether it is normal and desirable for the public interest, for the benefit of meta-analysis and for the democratic maintenance of legal legislation against the European Commission, i.e. Minister, that a minister has authority to make such decisions without having to submit them to the legislature. In this regard it is little matter whether such a warrant has been on the law for a time or not. Are not such decisions of nature, and do not often have such consequences for public interest, financial and in terms of the success of institutions, that it is highly desirable and, in fact, necessary to ensure that a minister needs to explain them to the General Assembly and reasons for them, and that they have to be given careful discussion, of the benefits and defects of which members of the Parliament, i.e. those who have the authority of the public, can we explain their viewpoints and views, and the common people can observe them? Is it not reasonable that such a matter should be discussed according to the methods of the council, through discussions, by reviews of the Committee, by the assembly hearings, by the comments and comments of special stakeholders? Is it not also necessary to keep up with institutions that are to be guided by local public interest projects that will not be put in place by advisers with the consequences that they may have for their activities and results for a longer or shorter time unless the Ministers have made it clear to members of the Parliament and how the decision has been prepared by professional assessment of the impact on the Agency's activities, results and their economic effects over and longer periods? Don't you have to face the fact that the political interests of a minister or of the party for which he sits at the council can easily affect such a decision, the enterprise, and the entire career? Is it not reasonable for a person to ask and set up this career so that it is maintained by all those who, according to public authority, are taking the lead in the public interest? In this regard it should be noted that the decision to determine the location and transport of the institutions is not a matter that often arises and that, as such, a administrative need is that a minister can decide this rapidly and without the efforts that result from the political treatment of such cases. Such decisions are rare and should be due to the high contribution for the Agency's activities, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that they are very well considered and reasoned with regard to the interests of the entire population in the country for a short and long period of time. It must then be ensured that the implementation of such decisions is very well prepared and that the procedure takes the time necessary to minimise harmful effects on the function in a longer and shorter time. It is important to look to the knowledge and experience of the staff and to see how it will be best maintained within the organisation. The foundation is not chairs, tables, computers, and houses, it's the knowledge of the staff. Therefore, if that knowledge is lost, it is not about the transfer of an institution but, rather, the establishment of a new institution that needs to be built from the foundation, including the necessary knowledge needed to do the work well. It can be done over a period of time, but there is a very serious danger that a great deal of experience will be lost if the job is overcrowded. The decision to move poorly prepared and does not take into account the need for this procedure, including the need for a good time. In order to ensure that the knowledge of the staff is not lost, it is bad, and it is contrary to public interests. The legislators need to maintain this too because a minister may be tempted to run such a decision quickly in an attempt to strike by political cones in areas where he or his party would like to receive support in the next election. How to protect the interests of the citizens of the state, and to avoid being cut off from their existence, and to eliminate their employment and forward if they do not want to move their homes and family to where the minister would like to decide? Here are very important interests at stake for employees who have even worked for a long time in an institution and specialized for the well - being of their jobs and who are not able to perform other jobs. This also has a bearing on the state's competitiveness in terms of qualified and well - educated staff. It will be less likely to pursue jobs if there are much insecurity and any individual minister has different priorities and may in a relatively short time and in a simple way change the place of the government. It is interesting, too, that in this same bill it appears that workers of recruitment will not be put between them unless they have their consent. I would like to have a few words here, since my time has flown from me without me completing my material discussion on the subject. I suppose I'd like to give a second talk about it, but now I'd like to say in particular about moving to Fish Room that it must be a big concern for the highest level. The government that in what has been formed of that institution has, in fact, only one employee, a fishing manager, declared that he is moving with the North Institute to Akureyri. There must be some kind of evidence that these men have not done quite as well as they had thought. These products need to be considered on the basis of the preparation and assessment of the consequences of transport to the function and results to a shorter and longer period of time. How have some cooperated with the representatives of those with special interests? How have the more recent and more long - term economic effects of moving have been evaluated? How will the government, intending to transport Fish Service, keep the operation going so that it can handle its important administrative and surveillance projects that are not at all to be kept low in regard to the interests of the marine way and the interests of the public? How is it intended to develop as rapidly as possible according to the proposed implementation of knowledge within the organisation to handle its complex tasks? How much? Then there is a need to consider, too, in the context of the parts when they plan to move the bill of a change in fish control law at the same time as the institution that follows and implements the laws that are torn up by roots and deeply shaken. This, of course, shows the extent and extent of the problem. I'm sorry, but I'm not getting any more of the points from this talk. I'd also like to, and will do it here at late stage, to discuss in particular the changes being made to information law in Article 10. The bill I consider to be important changes, at least so that they call for a lot of discussion and information from the Ministry. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister preparing for that question, especially when it comes to extracurricular requests to the government that are being added to the information law. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to make this work in the first pass of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u202	A respectable president. I'd like to ask a few words about the bill that's been submitted. However, a few words are inevitable. On the one hand, there are changes that, as the last speaker rightly points out, deserve a few discussions and, in some respects, other explanations, such as organizational adjustments in the Board of Overseers. I'm going to start by discussing the major factor, which is the open source here expected to be legalized as secretary to determine the location of public institutions. The current legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland from 2011 does not recommend the permission of a minister, but it is referred to as a paper with this bill that such a warrant has previously been legalized and has been submitted in 1999 following the Court of Supreme Court in 1998 for the transfer of Iceland from Reykjavík to Akérus. The report says, with the permission of the president: Therefore, in view of the above, it is suggested that there be again a general authority for the minister to determine the establishment under which he is hearing and that the arrangements of the older law be taken as unchanged. Is it right and natural to believe that the legal rights of the law will be restored, and the decision - making authority on this has been considered to be a natural part of a minister's administrative rights to institutions under which he or she hears. I want to make this a special remark. I don't think the Minister's decision to find where an institution has settled is part of a legitimate and inevitable minister's legal rights to institutions. A decision on the location of the Agency must be based on material assessments and on the management of the government and the need for public access that a good public service must dictate material decisions on the location of the institutions, not the management taste of a minister. This may be a subject of the fact that agencies are located outside the city of Reykjavík and may be sanctified by the nature of their work, because their work includes, for example, the work of the Witnesses. Work that is especially powerful outside the capital area, or the main concern of its activity, must be based on material values. It is not part of a general minister's employment privileges against institutions. If the law is restored as open as it was in the previous law - with this reasoning, I fear that it will be restored again to offer a ring with the location of institutions for an idealistic purpose and not with regard to the people's needs, the needs of the public, and that there will be no regard for staff interests. It is worth keeping in mind that the interests of staff are not the most important ones, but the basic idea of where the Agency will best be made up of her site. Today, much has been discussed with the government's failures regarding the planned transport of the Fish Room as the highest level. The prime minister was on a high level, announcing the transfer of the Agency without having discussed it with the government, without having been discussed with the members of the members of Congress, which I have received confirmation from members of both administration groups, and without a legal warrant for the transfer. Therefore, they are now intended to treat the WHO agent at the end of the Agency's apparently lawless move. So you're going over the matter on your own, it's worth considering that in the course of the same political group over 10 years ago, the Agency was transferred from Reykjavík to Hafnarfjörður. Why? Because of a material assessment of where the Agency would best be located? No. Because of an analysis of where her activities called for her to be the best thing to do? No. Because the present ocean - out minister was from Hafnarfjörður. This was the only material requirement for the transfer of a fish lab to Hafnarfjörður. That's why the Fishing Room in Hafnarfjörður is now. Now, as the government class, the prime minister wants to support the way of his district, I understand that he, as a new Councilman of the North-eastern District, would like to show them some fineness, and therefore be brought there by the Agency. The resurgence of this law in such an open way as this suggests the eternal cycle of random transport of institutions far and wide throughout the land, which is of no benefit to no avail. If these two political groups considered this to be consistent with their policy of government 10 years ago when they moved the Fish Room to Hafnarfjörður, why do they now feel that it is urgent to go to Akureyri? Or will they count after five years or 10 years that she is the best place to be found at Egls? Everyone sees how dangerous this trend is. Such an open source to determine the location of the institutions is a oppressive device to the government's institutions in the hands of ministers. If the Ministers suddenly gain absolute permission to waltz through the country, they can threaten organizations that are acting in accordance with their legal duties, transport, and thereby allow the security of employees and presidents of the institutions without resorting to the legal measures or being bound by the generally bound limits of the minister if he wishes to interfere with institutions under him. Ministers cannot decide to scour to the presidents of the institutions that are in their presence and out of bounds, but this is where the Agency can be moved anywhere. It's the factor I'm deeply worried about, because the Fishing Room is a very good example of an institution that has already been moved between rural partners on the ideals of one minister and now stands to transport it back on grounds of another minister, but well to mark from the same categories. So this open source creates confusion. It also creates uncertainty for Akureyritown at the agency's reception. I think people would be very interested in the Akureyris taking a warm welcome to the Fish Room and supporting the construction of its facility, but by the legalization of this general authority it is to pitch tents for one night and create complete uncertainty as to whether the Fishing Room will be there for two years, three years, four years, 10 or 12 with the appropriate uncertainty of attracting employees to the Agency in such a move. That is why this is so dangerously based, for it does not mean that projects that are easy to transport and have a natural home in the scattered settlements, but it is a means of power checking people to like pawns on a board with a complete open opening that the next secretary who accepts the people somewhere else. The problem I see most of this open transport is that it does not provide any security for the organizations that have been then moved. I'd have kept normal if I had the highest. The prime minister wanted to show his votes properly, wanting to support the growth of university education in Akureyri, discussing it here in particular in the case of the Fish Room, on the contrary, whether there was a agreement to move it to Akureyri, whether we could do it in a broad agreement, without putting in general open access to any government agency. The methodology as the highest. A minister prefers to use here no guarantee that any other statesman in the country is bound by this decision, but the prime minister himself, thus creating a perfect future doubt for the people who will choose to find a job in the Akureyri Fishing Room. A respectable president. I also feel that it is very important to think in another way about the construction of the administration and its distribution of land. I feel that in the resurgence of this open law there is no overall thought about what that means for Reykjavík as its capital. Of course, if it is natural for institutions to be placed in this country and where they live, it will cause the situation of the city of Reykjavík to become the capital and administrative center. There are consequences. For example, most categories of interested persons are about to be held at an airport in Reykjavík. The argument for this requirement is the position of Reykjavík as capital. If people are going to change the nature of the idea of a capital, they are also reducing the requirements that can be set aside for the city of Reykjavík as their capital. It is not possible to weaken the city of Reykjavík as its capital, transport its institutions from its capital city, and expect the city to shoulder its duties as a capital anyway. I also hear a great deal from my fellow members in the country who do not live in the big regional wars that they appreciate having a capital and that it is not a fascinating vision of the existence of government institutions throughout the country so that they will have to drive the ring to get their solution. It is a practical option to obtain a solution in one place. I feel that there is a lack here of a complete sense of how it might affect Reykjavík as its capital, its position as its capital, if it is prepared for an open license to export organizations to land. What, then, is the material content of our duty as a capital city? A respectable president. I'm about to end my talk session and I've only had a chance to talk about it, and I'm going over this Fish Room thing. So I will give a second speech and discuss other aspects of this bill that I am interested in addressing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u203	A respectable president. We're here to discuss 434th suit. 666, National Institute of Management, No. 115/2011, with subsequent changes. I am still looking over all this and really realizing exactly what is happening with all the changes. Perhaps it is best to start by talking about permission to the minister to determine the establishment of the institutions under him, unless the law says otherwise. The bill shows that this law was still in the law at its time but has been removed, that it seems accidental if I understand correctly, and as a result, it needs to be replaced. It may be just a bad time, based on the news that came the last summer, that was the point of transporting a Fish Room to Akureyri, a procedure the person here would not automatically resist if the causes of unemployment were the case, but I have to say the same thing as it is in my mind at the time, and still don't feel very strongly about reasons for this, either when it comes to talking about unemployment in these places, i.e. in Hafnarfjördur and Akureyri, or any other reason I could imagine would be the prerequisite for such a transport. To be honest, I simply don't hear the full support for this. I understand that as well as the rest of it. A senator mentioned before me, if the highest. Prime Minister wants to do well with his district, I understand that, but I don't think that's a serious reason, I have to say it right now, and I'm all willing to help the Northeast District, like any other district, whether it's Akureyri, Reykjavík, or anything else. I think of myself as a member of the entire country, though I am known as a member of the city of Reykjavík. When news of the arrival of a Fish Room was received, workers did not like it. It cannot strengthen the work of an important agency like the Fish Office that the knowledge that has been built up all over the place, either from the Bureau or perhaps something else, because many people simply don't want to move, want to live where they live, and may just be happy in the Hafnarfjörður, in the polytonical district. Maybe it's a coincidence, as I say, that Iceland's Council of Government comes at this time. It seems, however, that it is designed specifically to transport Fish Room, but I have to say, it doesn't look that way when you read it. It seems quickly to have been thinking longer than that. But when you give the highest, you always have to ask yourself. Minister of warrants, whether this is the highest. Ministers or any other, whether history would suggest that the person should exercise it with discretion. I have to say, I didn't think it was the last summer. I don't feel that I've been able to communicate with the staff of the Fish Room and I don't think that logic is good, the little one I've heard. There are other changes to this bill that I recently hit and wondered why exactly those changes were made. I'd especially like to mention 10. The bill, but it says, by permission of the President: To the validation of these laws, the following changes will be made to other laws: a. Information Act, No. 140/2012, with subsequent changes: paragraph 1. 2 mg. Twenty-seven. To put it this way: The government should make sure otherwise that important information is held in place, including on communication with the public and other governments, such as by registration of meeting types or memos. If you compare this to the 1st issue of 2 mg. Twenty-seven. Song 140/2012, the law being changed, stands there, by permission of presidents: Other measures should be taken to ensure that important information is maintained, such as by registration of meeting types as appropriate. This is especially true of communication with the common people. I wondered, " How far - reaching is this? ' I cannot quickly see that there is an all - out explanation in a report. However, I remember a report from the police that was conducted on the protest in 2009-2011. It was written about various parties, and it has made a question as to whether it is really legitimate to have so much information about the public. I dare not say that there is a legal question, for this discussion is not over. That is why I find this unscrupulous and insist that it be discussed on a committee and specifically indicated, why it should be recorded specifically, but it reminds me that this report was not without arguments and not without conflict. The question is, What is the meaning of the word "woe "? 12th p.m. We're out of here. is there repeatedly called on the name, boy. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who is not happy with everything he says, it sounds like if you read something out of the report in a hurry, like some kind of story from primarily one particular policeman. It has not been conclusive that such reports are normal, but I do not know that other reports were made. I understand from my discussions on committees that they are not routine and that the current official sheriff does not know that such reports have been made or that such a procedure exists or that such a procedure is to be taken up. In other words, there seems to be some sort of thing, and it's very important that we discuss it specifically. Another thing that brings my attention to this bill is 8. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ◯25. par. The law says: The Ministry of Presidency gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of ethics in case of follow-up, provides educational training on them within the Council of Government, and monitors their purpose. In order to ensure that the work of the U.S. Marshal and State Review is performed, the Ministry shall have regular consultation with that office. 25. track No. 115/2011, the one being changed, is much more important. I don't know if I have time to read it, yes, I would, but then I could say little else. It shows that the prime minister is appointed for three years as a co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administration. The Committee has a manager, an unregistered authority, one by the appointing of the management board, a representative of the government's personnel business, two representatives of the union of government officials, and two others chosen on the basis of their expertise in administrative and ethical matters. I feel a bit taken out and rather simple power replaced by, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Ministry of Presidency. Then I cannot help but remember a different opinion, which is in everyday speech called the "Implicit Case, " where questions arise about ethics, values, etc. I'm not going to trace it any more, but I think we need to talk about it in particular. If we're going to have a moral code, I think it's important to understand how they're interpreted in a reasonable way. This is said with them in advance that it is yet to be discussed on a committee, and there may be some good reason for this for which I have not yet been able to understand. Well, I'm pretty much taken out here, though. I need to read more from this article that is being replaced by the brief article, i.e. 2, 3, 4 mg. 25. Act 115/2011, by permission of the President: The Ministry of State provides the Commission with a job position. The main work of the co-ordination committee is: a. to promote the high moral standards of public employment and to provide governments with counsel on measures to prevent conflicting and corruption, b. to give a review of the rules of ethics on the basis of these laws and laws on the rights and duties of the officers of the state and to advise the government on their interpretations, c. training for information and academic research in the topic areas of the Committee, d. to contribute to the compatibility of failure as indicated by the WHO monitoring criteria and other available information on violations of ethics or risk of corruption in the state, e. to join partners, institutions and offices in the country and abroad who work against corruption in the public sector, f. giving prime minister a yearly report on his work, which would be made if further measures to strengthen confidence in the government's administration, to reduce the risk of corruption and problem in the administration. The report shall be submitted to the General Assembly. In order to ensure that the activities of the chair agent and the National Reconclusions are performed, the co-ordination committee should regularly consult with them in office. The whole thing is replaced, except for the last sentence, which is identical, unless the co-ordination committee is replaced for the Ministry of Presidency. Instead of the rest of the stuff I held up here, Mr. President's permission: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of morality in the following cases, provides instruction on these within the Council of Government, and monitors that they will accomplish their purpose. But much of what I think is quickly replaced by a good law is rather little, in fact, almost nothing, and I also find myself uncomfortable, so much more to say, that it is the Ministry of Presidency itself that is simply an interpreter, if I understand this correctly. These are questions that must always be asked if you are going to enter a moral code at a different level: Who is responsible for interpreting them? How will they really work? If the means of interpretation is in the hands of someone who is interested in the interpretation, it must raise suspicion. All the way from trust to sitting top. Government or individual highest. A minister in general to the future saw when the next evil left government can come into power, you would think that at that time the present government also wanted to have confidence, confident that the interpretations of ethics are in accordance with a trustworthy process. As far as I can see, the process mentioned at 25. Law being changed, No. 115/2011, it's pretty credible. It's a bit physical and it keeps accuracy, and that's why I'm afraid it's changed. Now that I'm almost done with my time, there may be some things that need to be considered in a committee, such as 4. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ Instead of the word "formable " at 1 mgr. 1 1. The law comes: important. That's what I'm thinking. Now I have time, I come to this in my second speech, and then I raised questions about what will lead to that change. I have plenty more to say about this, but my time has passed, the respectable president, so I'll take care of my case for a while. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u204	A respectable president. These are my speculations. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator referred to a change to Article 10. on information legislation. Then he spoke in particular about what was called the police report on the agricultural revolution, which is a natural illuminating summary, and hardly acceptable to use the term ◯ report on that document. Hv. A senator referred to the name given there and spoke of government communication with the common people. I deeply agree with him on that. But I don't understand the article, so it applies to the police authorities, but it applies to the administrations, to the Management Board, and to keep a record of government communication with the general public, not to talk about police authorities. This was one of the findings found in a report by the NTSB and after the collapse, that people knew nothing about what authorities had been discussing among themselves, and that they did not communicate with anyone in the town, whether it was the public or the lawyers who was called. If it was clear that this did not apply to police registration, then the attitude would be taken. The senator for this article has changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u205	A respectable president. The answer is, in short, yes, but I haven't developed a final opinion on the bill, and we're only in 1st. ... aboutit. I'm one of the crazy senators who believes that the Senate procedure should be for people to change their opinions from time to time, and I would be very strange if a person's opinion in the Senate was exceptionally the same as the 3rd. and they're at 1st. I don't know. I don't think so. A good senator, and certainly he accepts it. What really raised this question to me is the fact that I don't think it's well explained in a paper with the bill. There may be some very serious and practical reasons for this and for the benefit of all, but I don't feel that it is obvious and would have liked to see a better explanation in a report. Maybe she's more obvious to others than I am. This will likely be evident in the treatment of the case by the Committee on the Management Board. However, it is awkward to discuss such matters, contact with the public, etc., when the so - called police report is still under discussion. I didn't feel comfortable with this report to tell me any more. I don't think this discussion is over. I'm sure we have such events in mind when we discuss registration of communications with the public. I also wondered, " If conversations with the public do so, what exactly does communication have to do with the public? ' I also feel that it is important for people to be aware of what is recorded about them. You can't keep it that way all the time, I realize that, but I think it's important that people have the opportunity to know what's written where. That's what I think about the police file, as well as their dealings with the authorities. [[The president calls.]] To these specific requirements, I find it worthwhile to give careful thought to questions like these. [[The president calls.]] Actually, I think 1st. be ideal for that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u206	President. If it's in bed like I hear a word out of it. The senator may consider, perhaps, the communication between police and personal details about who was at what time and after the streets, I wholeheartedly agree with them. I also wholeheartedly agree that it is right to consider when governments deal with the general public or to change their relationship with them. I agree with you, too. A senator stating that this matter has to be completed because of what was called this report. I say again, I don't think it can bear that vow because it's not a report, it's a museum of someone I don't think is dignified enough to call a report. It is very serious that this information has been collected. Personal protection was to be considered in that matter. The case isn't finished with the Board and Control Committee, I just want to say it. I just agree with what. A senator says it needs to be completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u207	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll take it from here. Senator. If we look at the article being changed, we will see that it appears to be an expansion of information, which I would like to consider is not necessarily negative, but it is important that it be done on the proper basis and with the owner's nail. But this is the subject of the President's permission: Other measures should be taken to ensure that important information is maintained, such as registration of meetings as appropriate. It's not a law that you would think that the Ministry would be able to register contact with someone who, for example, sends in a question that I'm sure is registered anyway. Of course, a manager or someone in the territory who expresses his opinion or something about the same needs to be answered. This law appears specifically to be for the Ministry's internal work and meeting efforts as appropriate, during the new wording, by permission of the president: Other measures should be taken to ensure that important information is maintained, including on communication with the public and other governments, such as by registration of meeting types or memos. These are notes and comments on the general public, so this is an opening to the registration of information, which can be good and blessed again, but it is important that it be done on legitimate grounds and, of course, in view of the reason to record information as to why this information is recorded. This is not indicated in the report as far as I can see. Now it may well be that lawyers can explain to me that there's a good reason for what's behind it. I'm not aware that at this point it is a good reason or that the law will be changed. [[The president calls.]] We'll only see when the case goes to a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u208	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Here, though, are some adjustments. Many of these may not look big, but they are when you begin to look at what they are dealing with and read the text and the caption with them, but they may also be the least important in view of the environment that we live in when the present government is involved. We've seen strange things happen today. First of all, we saw a decision to ignore a system of laws that have been agreed on a frame plan and are going somewhere else to make decisions on how we will classify activation options. We've seen today that men are ready to go quite far, they're ready to break an agreement, they're ready to make their senators an insignia of agreements to achieve a 67% share of The State Radio. And we have also seen, a respected president, recently that the government usually makes many decisions without considering them, and it often makes all kinds of decisions because it feels that they are correct, without any professional or professional work being done there. That's what you're really afraid of when it comes to this bill, e.g. .......... g., saying that a minister shall have the residence under him, unless the law says so. Here, let us just stop and look over the direction of the government and ask ourselves, " Is this advisable? ' When I'm at the highest. On the contrary, he made a decision against all the decisions that many had made, that the Chief of Police in the Hornig should belong to the East, despite men working on it for a long time, working well and professionally, that the sheriff of the South would be a member of the Southland. It was a decision that was made only in my office and completely out of touch with everything that happened before. They might as well, although there was no formal security valve that would enable a change in this decision, a newly appointed Minister of state, the Supreme Minister, was appointed. Ólöf Nordal's minister, turned his decision around. So it was lucky. It was lucky that it was changed, just because of the timing. A respectable president. This shows a little bit about the environment in which you are ready to make decisions. The next thing I'd like to say is the transfer of Fish Room. If this article is to be accepted, it is, in fact, the basis for the transfer of Fish Labs to be done. Does anyone feel that these are professional decisions? I have not heard any person who has discussed the transfer from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri as he has been introduced to say so, not one. I've tried to listen carefully to what analysis is involved, to analyze where the Agency should be located so that its services will be most useful throughout the country. I haven't seen anything like that. I have not seen any report or policy work or any other conclusion that should be carried out as everyone, first with a man and a mouse in the north, it is so important to move it north, and therefore all the work and knowledge within the door can be discarded, just to transport the Agency north. I've never seen any diagnostics, but there are no diagnostics. There is no professional decision. All that's behind it is political practicality. And political practicality, when ministers are going to beat cones with their decision and thereby ignore professional grounds, is not a good basis for decision making. This article offers the answer. It completely opens open permission to Ministers to accept such suitable practical decisions and does not require that they have any professional grounds or checks on where the Agency should best be located. I'm following the fact that the government is trying to distribute its institutions and activities throughout the country as much as possible. I'm not satisfied with the fact that, as we have been presented here, one institution is taken without professional observations of where it is best to be located, an institution is adopted in a way that makes sure to shut down the work and say to the employees: you come along or you've lost your jobs. That's all there was to it. This is not a professional business, a respectable president, and it is not how we should try to distribute the work of the government across the country. We are to do so in another way. One little interesting example that I think the government could have looked into in this regard is how the Environment Agency does it. The EEA's activities are such that it has offices in several parts of the country and invites its workers to work anywhere in these offices. Some of these ways, however, would have been possible with the Fish Room and more institutions could be taken. It is possible to expand a country's service in ways other than to put men on a wall and take an institution and carry it out and lose all the experience and knowledge in it. There are so many ways to do this. It is also possible to decide, political decision, that newborns should be asked to expand their activities in the country. It can be done. There are so many ways in which you can do this, much more human and natural than you ever suggested. The flea and this attitude, this is mine, I'm allowed, I'm in charge, this is not a government job. There are other examples I can mention. I'm not going to stand here and make some list of sins for this government, though I could definitely use another quarter to do it. I would like to ask people to think this over again and ask themselves: " How do we make sure that the valuable experience of every employee at Fishing House doesn't get lost, how do we keep it, and how can we at the same time decide that the public will expand his work on land? This does not have to be done by shutting down and moving the base of the Fish Room in Hafnarfnarfjörður. There are so many other ways to do it. I'm gonna take another example. I've given you an example of the Environment Agency. This can be done in some way, so when a person makes a decision to improve his activity to a specific location, it is stated when reorganization is under attack. There is another example I would like to mention. We tried this once when I was at the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and looked around to see that this was once an approved outsider of jobs without a location. We decided to hire an employee for travel, but because it was cut down at the time, and the Ministry of Industrial Affairs took a small blow, we got an employee to our office from one of our institutions. The best worker to do the work was an employee out of the country, in particular, at Isafa, who was still the department's employee. And it just went really well up. So I'm going to encourage the highest. Prime Ministers to discuss it with their minister to dust off jobs without location and perhaps spit a little about recruiting employees who are located elsewhere than in Reykjavík. Modern technology certainly offers workers to be located elsewhere than in the capital area. A respectable president. I'm also gonna mention another part of the bill, but that's 8. ..about the interpretation of ethical principles. I don't think it's normal for the Ministry of Presidency to be the government to advise on the interpretation of ethical principles. It has nothing to do with me not trusting the people in the Ministry of Presidency, nothing. It all has to do with the fact that when such delicate issues are involved as moral standards are so important that they are credible and they need to be distributed to how they are interpreted and how men give advice on them. It is not long ago. The prime minister had no idea whether there was any moral code or not. But I am glad that at least men have put their arms around that matter and decided to continue the work that the last government began, which was to put in force the code and the Council and all, because it matters. Modern society requires that we know how we are going to work, how the management government makes decisions, and how it is being followed. That's why you feel that at the highest, you are extremely important. The prime minister helps more people, not just himself. This group will be improved, and it will be rather done in the current legal sense that committees will handle these issues. Otherwise, if there is a disagreement or a big issue, the code of ethics may be left in a light bed. We don't want to, and I don't suppose that's the plan of a prime minister. I assume that what may be drawn to him is more than simply a simple system and an outsider, but it must not be reduced to trust. So I'm going to suggest that men revise this and revise the group that is the government's advisers on the interpretation of the rules of ethics and the teaching of them within the Board of Directors. A respectable president. I believe the changes made were 2011 when the legislation was originally made for the benefit. I am glad that here people are not making a decision to throw away what was then done, despite the fact that there has become a remember of this government. Just because the left government bad decided something, it seems that there are a lot of cases about throwing it away and pushing it aside or doing anything else without looking at it in the ground. But it's not done here. This is positive, and we must rejoice that humans will continue to work on that foundation, in a gross way. I can't get over any of the other things, but these two, I think it's really important. I think we need a security device when it is decided where agencies should be located in order to prevent an immediate decision to do so in some political school game, as is often required or on horse purchases, as is sometimes referred to here. The safety valve should be provided by the General Assembly, i.e. that this is a final decision on which institutions are going, and then we can call for a professional decision-making basis and review it here. Then there's the code of ethics. I hope to the highest. Prime Ministers take to heart what I have said that it might much further strengthen the position of the Ministry on the job of being with others so that the code of ethics will be credible and we can view new practices in the government, where we have standards that people in general trust and that the management board knows the code well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u209	A respectable president. I'm asking why. A member of Congress: Is it not reasonable that we ask ourselves in this matter how best to move institutions to shore, from what has been in the law before or not? There must be a basic question. The only argument I've heard about putting this into the law, that a minister has the authority to determine the location of an institution, is that such a warrant was in the European Council of Government for the change made in 2011 and that no special support for why it was being removed. I can tell, because I was on the committee that followed this matter here through the council during the last term, that people no longer wanted to have it in the law. That's why they were released. It is generally accepted, or at least there was a reason to believe that every time a person makes such decisions, it would be done here on the scene, that men would be through debates about the pros and cons, that the government, the legislators could ask questions about the execution of the authority, the criticism, and the introduction of these views. But putting the matter in the hands of one minister and having him decide in this way is a bad return to temporary conditions in the law, in my opinion. All I want is a response. A senator who is also experienced in the administration and as a minister on this matter gets her opinion of these key questions on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u210	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with this question. It should provide the basis for all decision-making, i.e. how to transport an institution. First, ask: Is it true, based on the work, to transport the Agency? If the answer is yes, we ask ourselves, " How can I do that? ' Of course, these questions should be fundamental. I've never heard the current minister try to answer the question about Fish Room and that decision, never heard him try to answer that question, just never. It's just ours and we're allowed this to be, like I tried to describe in my speech earlier. I think it's more reasonable to have it as it was decided in 2011 and is in current law, i.e. that a minister needs to handle such a change so that we can keep track of things, that they're just some safety valve, and we can try to monitor how things are done. Let's just take an example. I often took it during my last term to make decisions to try to manipulate the administration because we needed it, money wasn't there, we had to close a big money hole. The results were obtained by outsiders to support us in that work so that the result would be professional, i.e. where the convergence would be most, where cooperation between institutions would be the most, so that we could identify which institutions would be best to unite. It turned out that the ideas I had in advance were not correct, when professionals had gone through it, about which institutions might be good to unite. We are weak though it may be difficult for many to admit it, to individuals, and therefore it is so important that professional decisions are behind us and analysis of what is best for the Agency to care for their clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u211	A respectable president. I think the key question is, Is there any reason to present the Agency? I won't belittle that view. I think that can be true in many cases. I can honestly say for myself that if I was an employee of Fish Labs, I would probably be thrilled just to take such an institution to Akureyri, for me private and personally, because that community is in my great favorite place, I feel really good there. It's not the subject of this case and it really has no meaning in this context. The question must be: Is it good for the public in the country? Does the Agency serve better? I can't help but take up a particular conversation in this context when it is thought that, while governments intend to make major changes in fish control laws, they also plan to move this institution into great confusion and are far from making sure that normal functions can take place. During the days, an article on this planned transport was published by two former fishing managers. They state that the decision presented by the minister in these materials has already brought great damage. The workplace is not the same as it used to be. It is now, as the article says, the angry person fears employees because of uncertainty about the future, work security, and life - sustaining income. Some have begun to look for employment and even when they have gone to another job. It has to be said that the only person who has claimed to be moving with the agency is the fish lab manager himself. Clearly, then, the task is not being done. Bringing a bill into the council is not a big step that makes a minister able to do it on his own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u212	A respectable president. Of course, an institution is upset when such a statement comes. It is natural for people to become unsure of their work, and it affects their activity. The professionals employed there have gathered in a vast amount of knowledge. The knowledge and experience in the Agency are not in the name, it's not just on the papers, it's not just in the files, it's not just on paper, it lives in these people itself. This, therefore, can be an enormous price for a professional decision, as well as a financial one. It takes building that knowledge again. That is why, in all respects, it is a perfect methodology, although I'm not going to say it in advance. In all 40 years, you have learned that you should never predetermine that something is bad, but you can have opinions about how things are done. I have it in this case. I have no grounds to evaluate where it is best to locate Fish Room based on professional views, but I have a lot of opinion about it when people are going to do things in the way that has been presented here. It's totally out of a map to do this. A respectable president. We need to strengthen the area. I totally agree with that. That's what we need to do. But it is not the way to tear down one institution with its roots and move it north of the country. That's not the way. A respectable president. I took an example of it earlier, when it was the highest. The prime minister ignored many lost jobs to decide where the Chief of Police in the Hornfjord should be located and went against it in his office behind closed doors. It is important that we have a system that does not depend on one person's ability to make such a decision and that there is no security valve in this decision, in order to reverse it even... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u213	A respectable president. In this case, it seems that already a BHM has sent out some kind of review of this subject without a direct statement being sent out. I'd like to be able to guess the comments the League of college makes on these plans. For one thing, the laws under which they are changing were made by the leading specialists in the administrative and administrative sectors. It is also concluded by the Community that the authority to determine the location and transport of the government should be at the General Assembly and that this would prevent the decision of the minister. These statements are very thorough in the opinion of BHM. I'm not going to go into it right now at the short time that I have to discuss this matter in my second speech. I'd like to make a special subject of Article 10. the bill where two other layers are being changed. The first is an information law, and the second is the law on the rights and duties of the servants of the State. I'd like to make it a subject of the change being done on the information law because it's just about to go through a very extensive and thorough review of the law that I myself came to in my last term. At that time, important changes were made to the law, several aspects reviewed, and improved to further increase government intelligence to the general public. In the 10th. which I would like to make here a subject of talk says: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. A sentence. 2 mg. Twenty-seven. To put it this way: The government should make sure otherwise that important information is held in place, including on communication with the public and other governments, such as by registration of meeting types or memos. It's a new line there, shot into the law bill. A comment on this "a team " of articles, says by permission of the president: The motion is presented in connection with Article 4. the bill where changes are proposed to the current Article 11. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. This change includes an appeal for important information about government communication with the public and other governments in the same way as other important information. There is in itself no reason to make a remark to this, just a self-important thing. The following statement goes on to say: It is understood that important information is involved, e.g. queries, answers, declarations, instructions, or other information sources as well as requests for any of the above. The information may exist, either in the case of national administration or in the case of administration. I think this raises questions. What for? Why is it that information is being collected about those asking for information? Should a special record be given to those asking for specific government information? I wondered, " Is it not to be self - righteous in the community to ask for information from the state without a special record? ' There are many ways in which the community, the individual, interacts with the State. Depending on what information he is looking for or what his dealings with the State, the individual may be very private. I wondered, " Is this the way I live?'Is this the way to gather personal information on the wishes, conversations, requests of individuals who may not want such information to exist, but have the right to receive a certain issue? That's what worries me. I think you must refer it to the committee involved to make this very careful consideration possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u214	A respectable president. I'd like to put some words in the middle of 1st. What you see first, and many have talked about today, is 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Gr., a controversial opinion that a minister shall state the residence of an institution under him, unless the law recommends it otherwise. Of course, it is not unusual for people to talk about the Great Fish Room. I am a great spokesman for increasing the number of public jobs in the country or, in fact, increasing the variety of jobs in the country, including with public employment, but it just sucked how badly this was going to be. In fact, I don't know if any of us in the north were paid by the way it was done. When it was time to pay people to move to Akureyri, I was invited quite enough because it is a privilege to live in Akureyri. Advertising good jobs and done on the right terms, people apply. There's nothing missing. I also feel sorry that no comment was taken into consideration that appeared in 2004 in a small report on the transport of the Fishing Room to the Akureyris made by the Council, short but fine paper. It refers to the transport of a fish lab, reasons why the Agency should be at home in the country, and it is said that the transfer should take five years. I would say it was too short time, on the way, if out into it is gone, because it's very good to take time in such a carriage. I have found this in my conversations with other senators and many others, and I have found a special point in my conversation with members of Congress when they say that this is not part of a plan, ten years of age, or twenty years of age. What institutions do we see in our eyes that belong on land? Which agencies live in Reykjavík? Where should the branches be in the country? Can you have the headquarters in Reykjavík and such a powerful branch in your country? I think it's precipitating to distribute jobs, but at the same time, they need to serve the public fully. If we do not trust in politics to make decisions until ten years of age because we do not trust one another, I feel that I am self - righteous. In effect, we are saying that we can never make plans that cover a second term. We always have to hurry up, tear down Fish Room right now so it's probably been moved before the season's over. The next government may decide to reassign the Agency. That's why it's so important that we work it out. This is a lawsuit where I think all classes can get together. I had this experience as if someone had to bring something to the meeting, and I don't remember if it was the annual employment development club meeting, where a minister would bring something in his bag. It is as if ministers always have to bring some package when they tread up. That's not good. He reported this before the staff had been contacted. So I'm not happy with 1. Look, I think we need to find some other way. There's also something else I'd like to point out in this context. At the same time we're in such a sleazy operation that aims to uproot an institution and even lose a lot of employees, they lose jobs in the country. If we just take Akureyri as an example, Matis is no longer in the city. There's very little left of a Meritional Research Institute, if anything. I was reading it on the news today that three special jobs performed at the airport in Akureyri had been moved south. The manager of a debt shut down Akureyri when he was being brought together. I could count that for a long time. The objective, perhaps, should be to further strengthen the existing things. I don't think the focus is on it. I feel very much like the arrangement I've heard being with the EEA, people are applying and can actually work at the job station they choose. I feel that this is a lot to follow, and therefore I stress that these matters should be part of an overall vision and a future course. Many institutions are located only in the capital area, and those living in the country must have all their contact with them through telephones and computers, but it might be an idea that in the urban economy there were some kind of public branch office, people in the country could walk into a branch where they could speak to employees who would represent a number of institutions in the capital area that have no jobs in the country. If I had to have some contact with a government agency that is only located in the capital area, I could go to Akureyri somewhere and there would be personnel I could talk to. I understand there's something like this going on out in Denmark. I think it's exciting, and I'd like to learn more about it. Anyway. It's gonna be interesting to look after the bill's reviews, but I believe it's 1st. need to take a closer look. Seven. is referred to as transporting projects between recruitment practices. Then, of course, one will be thinking that when a new government began, an assignment was given between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture. At that time, the Ministry of Premiers was presented as a matter of culture. I don't know if it's natural for me to think that there's a lot going around with issues and lawsuits. It's done, though. Each one may need to have some flexibility in it. Still, I would have thought it would be better if we were to reach a common conclusion as to what we thought was natural. We'd come together to see how many agencies there should be and what lawsuits should be heard under the department, that wouldn't be that call. In that case I mentioned it was done in the middle of the year, and it all goes into the budget when certain institutions are placed under the Ministry of Presidency. I just think it's confusing, and it's not to add transparency or make things right. I also find it uncomfortable that a minister's interests can begin to determine where litigations happen. We in politics should agree on and over the length of time what we feel is normal for the Ministry to be many and what language groups are being heard by each Ministry. I don't think this round-and-twisting thing is a good thing to do. "B" Unit 10. is suggested to transfer employees from government to government if they agree to it and to the director within the board or between projects. I've always imagined that it could be just an advance that the Council was more like a team, though there will be always being divided into the Ministry, there's more flow between them. I think it's an improvement, and I also want to say that a lot of the bill seems to me at first sight just fine, so I'm not too negative. I'm not gonna have this any further. I'll study the reviews and maybe discuss the matter more with the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u215	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I was interested in what she mentioned regarding the movement of the North Fish Room, that at the same time as men make a decision in the same manner as this, they take the Agency and bring it north with the risk that knowledge and experience are lost, otherwise reduced in other institutions at the same place, in Akureyri. That's what I'm talking about. A senator with any numbers on this? Is there anything else she can tell us about that? Of course, this has to be a complete thought. When making decisions to expand the work of the public in the country, there must be a plan for how to do so. We can't say: We're going to do this by moving one agency, driving her north, without linking everything else. It seems to me that in this regard, in Akureyri, jobs in other institutions are lost. I'd like to pray. A senator to review it. It's a bit fun, because sometimes you hear the exporting of ideas that you've found in other areas, in another context, and it's with that all over the country you can consult a person who's a sort of government agent in your rural society, where you can do the biggest thing you have to do, such a Šone-stop-stop-hop, so to speak. This is my idea that I can work much more with, rather than be making decisions like this in some void.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u216	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the question. There we go. A senator with the word I needed. I was hanging out with this thing and talking about a branch that we in the country are being mean to because the branches are always closed, but the government agent, there's something like that we're talking about. I traced a few examples I can remember from Akureyri last year, where jobs have moved south in some cases, and if anyone has quit, he has not been replaced. This is particularly concerned about a Meritional Research Institute, which is just as much as a more important organization than the Fishing Room because of cooperation and cooperation with the University of Akureyri. There's a resource department, the only one in the country, and it's important to both Matis and the Marine Research Institute, where this study program was involved, and it was supportive. And, of course, the Fish Room has a branch in Akureyri today. What I'd rather have liked to see was that it was said: " We're going to put more emphasis on a Fishing Room in Akureyri. In the coming years, those who will be hired will be hired into Akureyri. I know exactly what it's like if there's work available, people want to move to land so that, in time, the importance of the branch office in Akureyri can be increased, whether it's made to headquarters or not, it's not sacred to me, though, of course, it's anxiety to a branch office where it's always shut down. It is against us politicians that we are not more determined than this. It may be said that this led us to discuss the matter and to take up the discussion of the transfer of the public institutions. I still feel very vague about Fish Room. They're putting it off. I want someone to say, "Let's do it properly." [[The president calls.]] We're quitting now. Let's get a six-year plan on this. I'd love it if a minister had a manhood to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u217	A respectable president. Now that we have the state-of-the-art budget on the right, it is good to do exactly what we are throwing between us here, going over the scene in general, going over where the public activities are all around the country, all of the Ministry and have everything under it, seeing professionally where we can strengthen the Agency's operations by moving employees, or by strengthening them in certain places about the country, looking at the whole picture, not as important as a fish firm in an upset setting such as proving or proving that a man who has promised. That is not how we politicians are supposed to keep our campaign promise to strengthen the country's settlements and build up the country all over the country. It's not like that. At least it's not my idea of how we should keep our word. Rather, we should try to do it as professionally as possible. It is absolutely clear that it was not done in this case. This conversation we've kind of started with me in terms of very interesting being seeing numbers about making Akureyri, which institutions have actually subsided at the same time that this discussion has taken place. That would be interesting, showing what 1st paragraph is. This bill here, I'm not gonna say it's dangerous because it's a big word, but how harmful it can be if men don't watch their decision based on a professional basis. There must be a safety valve when it comes to making such a decision, because we have an example of his need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u218	A respectable president. I began looking for evidence because I wanted to see how these matters had been worked over the past 10 years, whether the government had had had any particular policy in the litigation of the litigation team in the country, to see how it had been handled over the last 10 years. I found very little. Of course, a job without location is very good, but there is not much available in print or in paper on that subject. I think it's something important. In effect, it tells you to do something random and out of your hand. That is why I believe that this case would be the ideal part of a transnational work, which I would like to participate in. Another experience that I have experienced and is somewhat uncomfortable is that it often depends on the attitude of the directors whether the work in the country is staying at branch offices there or not. I've heard that some institutions are very active in their jobs in the country. But in other institutions, this is the case if someone stops working in Reykjavík, and in time, the branch will be removed. That's not good. But I'm very excited about what I'm going to do from here on out calling an agent of the state. I've experienced myself being late to pick up a card from Medical Security. Because I lived in the country, I had to wait seven to ten days for it to be sent. If you live in Reykjavík, drive up health insurance, walks in, and receives this card in three minutes. It's a discrimination thing I don't think is okay with. I'm not suggesting there's a plastic printer machine in all places, but this is an example of discrimination, although it's not a serious case that I'm uncomfortable with. I'm supposed to be able to go to some agent in Akureyri who solves my business. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u219	A respectable president. During the last term, the U.S. Government Act was changed. I believe that the changes that were then made have been improved. It was spoken for hours because of them, and it seemed to be the most insurmountable. However, the changes presented here are not in the spirit of what they were speaking, but I think these changes were quite reasonable, they made the Council more mobile than they are today. Advertisers can be changed, the Ministry can be cut off, and two ministers, such as is now customary at the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Health. I believe that these changes have been beneficial in many respects, even though I completely agree with what was presented. paritaprevir The challenge of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's conduct that the Council must not be associated with the Council so that litigators are directly between recruitments because a minister has some particular interest in a particular matter over others. I'm not going to belittle the interest of the highest. The prime minister of national culture, which is just a bit in the spirit of what is presented in many of the highest jobs. Governments, unfortunately, associate with such procedures and what we've put ourselves here so that the people of the country know how things are being handled and how to govern. You can't follow the ideas of men. I think it's the best. Unfortunately, the government doesn't quite respect the rules that I think are necessary, although I also believe that we can't bind all things. Thus, I felt that the change was an improvement in the legislation during the last term. However, I would like to discuss 1. ..... That the minister may command the estate of the established places, that it be the minister of the minister, as it were, to set it. This law was under the administration, but it was taken out in 2011. The report says that because it was not specifically mentioned in comments that the law was taken out, that it was not a major matter, and that it occurred accidentally, it was justified, probably, and normal to put the law back into law on the Council of Government. I don't think that's true. We must note that the change in the Council of Management Board during the last term was carried out following a report by the Allied Committee and its response. The report and also in the Senate report on the report of the Committee on Study Committee is very much about the fact that the Ministry had been too much and men had made decisions and that they could not be traced according to the formalities that they were taken. I think it was very conscious of merely canceling this law of old government so that men didn't even think about bringing it up. I think it was like that. That's why I find this argument very strange in my report. I think she's a pain in the ass. If I'm in this place, I'd also like to say about this bill and its contents, and I'd like to criticize the argument presented in the report, I'd like to point to page too. 3th of the Parliament. The chapter on comments has a headline: II. An overview of key changes according to the bill. Then the main changes are listed in the four main teams, and in short, they are said: "See further on, and then it is specified where. " I'm just gonna say it's really comfortable and I think that those who give up a bill like this can take it as a role model. We often get that kind of stuff about the bill, but then there's a lot of text, and I just want to compliment those who are doing it for putting it out like this. It says here: Oversee the main changes as measured by the bill. 1st General Minister's Office to determine the location of the institutions I have mentioned something about the fact that it was not an accident that this law was issued in 2011, but I feel that it was inconsiderate how it was made up and how it was introduced. The decision was not presented at any meeting and was made without talking to the staff of the Fish Room. Then, for a while, all these people, man, and mouse were to be moved to Akureyri without asking anyone. There's so much inconsiderate about the Agency's staff that it has an enigma. In fact, it's been found to be the highest. Agrienvironmental minister has, I think, said not long ago that it was quite clear that this would not happen right now, for it was found to lack legal authority. He did not have a legal right to take this organization and carry it like this, but it should not be on the hand of one man, even if he is in the government to decide something like it, it can't be right. But this was done last year, and people came up with all kinds of ideas that if people didn't want to go, they didn't have any employee who was moving in for an additional 3 billion. K. and so forth? The ministers began to praise all kinds of things that they are not authorized to promise. I think it's very lacking at the very present time. advises that they know their limits of authority. Then, too, I'm going to say something about the Supreme Court sometime over 2 mg. 13th par. The Constitution, which is as follows: the office in Reykjavík and that it is therefore possible to state that all government institutions should be in the area or the area in which they live. It's natural outback. You can totally decide on a legal basis that an institution should not have residence in Reykjavík, it is quite clear. However, it must also be kept in mind that Reykjavík is the capital city, and it is not uncommon in Iceland that many government agencies are in the capital. Well, that's a definition once. I remember that when I was in school as a child, you always had to remember about the Netherlands that Hague was the capital, even though she was smaller than Amsterdam. That was because the government was there, and it was a administrative home. That's the natural difference between capital and other cities or towns in the country, but I'm not minimizing that it could probably be distributing institutions around the country, for example, with branches and other branches, as mentioned in the discussion. Senators before me. I see that I won't have time to review everything I was going to review in my speech, but I just wanted to be able to think that the financial agency's review is a little strange. It suggests that there will be no financial discharges from the changes made by the bill. I also know that it's not on the bill to move Fish Room to Akureyri, but there are still 150 million. K. In the budget of moving Fish Room to Akureyri. I would have felt that it was all right to have it as a footnote in the financial assessment of the office. This, however, was about the first item, the general authority of a minister to determine the location of the institutions. Then comes the second, the ◯A coronation of the planning of the advisers. In comment, we're 6. In view of yesterday's discussion about the highest bill, I find the coverage of the discussion. Education Minister to establish a Institute of Education where administrative projects should be put there. The article discusses how it might be convenient to arrange a Ministry so that there would be a special department, or, as the bill says, by permission of the president: With increasing flexibility in the front panel at planned recruitment measures, there is a difference between the two groups. Keep in mind the possibility that a business can combine And then it is said that some administrative projects can be given in particular to some department in the plot. But does the government not have to consider in general what it will do in this regard? This is about what the Ministry of Education announced in a special bill yesterday to bring administrative projects into the Institute of Education. I think it's a bit out of the question. Now I'm not saying that it can't be sensible, I'm just saying that we have to have some big deal. We need to know where we're going. I think it matters in this regard. Third, this fine overview discusses the increase in the mobility of workers and suggest that the general authority be given to transport employees who are temporarily hired for employment in recruitment and organisations and between them. In the shortest case, I think it's actually a good thing. I think that's exactly what it's supposed to do, and that's making the Council more complete than it is today, there's something in towers, and there's little sharing between recruitment practices. So I think the third point is actually the good part. 1st par. However, it is impossible, and we must not allow it to become approved because we should not allow any one person to make a dramatic decision for many people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u220	Madam President. Hv. A senator made 1st par. the bill for detailed discussion, as well as understandable. The problem with discussing the proposed arrangement is that it is in the shadow of a most unfortunate career. Government, or part of it, in planning to move Fish Room to Akureyri, and I'm not talking about it as such, but how it all works out. This, of course, leaves no doubt as to whether this would be under normal circumstances or, regardless of any such bad condemnations, an abnormal arrangement. I want to ask you why. A senator's details. One thing is, of course, to have within the laws of the Management Board any authority to have a flexibility in the planning of public activities, such as that an institution with many functions in many parts of the country, that the focal point and/or world headquarters of such activities can be moved if possible. However, the question arises, Does a recent experience not show that there must be some rules about how that authority is exercised and how it is being used? Well, my question is, if it changes something in the mind of a why. For example, if a member of the body first or in combination with the rules for such changes, i.e. regarding their preparation and consultation with employees and other factors in this way? I don't necessarily think that it is best to establish a location of institutions or headquarters in the whole room in one case. It might be good to be flexible, but it clearly needs to be thought very well before such power is released into the hands of a person who fucks up all the preparations for such a thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u221	President. I don't think every institution should be in Reykjavík. But I'm ready to look at it, they're big organizations, like. as with a Fish Room and others, that they should be legally determined where they should be. I like it. A senator will be very polite when he says that this is a bad thing to do. I'd say it's just flumbrush, it's annoying, there's nothing wrong with that. Yes, I could probably agree if it was done with good planning, and they knew the rules of transporting institutions from part of the country, I'd probably be quite willing to accept that. But I also feel that the people who work in those places, people with family, with children. It takes tremendous quantity and good preparation for such a decision to be made before making it and foreordaining it in time too, so that people can see what the future holds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u222	Madam President. As for me, there is nothing wrong with saying a lot about this Fish Room thing. So, of course, it was a very initial failure, and I have to state in my opinion that public employment is being distributed and that it is reasonable to look to the share of the country, a number of areas there have to be published without a location, so that there are potentials for modern technology to open up to men with modern technology to do tasks other than here in 101. I'm grizzly. Prime Ministers and marine eco-efficiency Ministers for making such a terrible mistake, in effect, a mismanagement of this method. I'm sorry, but this is against the very cause that has been chosen to serve, i.e. that such activity might be located elsewhere than in the southwest corner or in the city of Reykjavík. Of course, it is also natural to look at the chemicals below each time, and of course, the way in which the fishing route is as heavy as it is in the rural area is, there is no wonder that men may wonder about the possibility that a government would link it to here. However, it would be preferable to discuss this regardless of the situation. I'll get back to it with 1. g., this is the arrangement that was under law on the Council of Government until 2011, to inform me that I considered a solution out of this problem that whether this would be the result or not, people would go to work that would clearly be necessary, because men are somewhat mismanageable, to shape rules, even legal decisions if such decisions were made, or are working on, such policies that affect functional or staff there, it is always and always done with considerable preparation, and in time, allowing them to develop for some time in order to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u223	A respectable president. I don't think any of us in this room have any objection to distributing jobs around the country, I think we can say that. But in such matters, as in most people, our priorities and weight differ. Those who stress that point, but perhaps I was not paid by this flumbo, by this mess; the views that are certainly strong were not made payable. There is no doubt about it. Often, if you do not try to act with a certain degree of caution, you will fall, rather than get along well. I told it in my speech earlier that I don't think it's an accident that this monstrosity, that a minister could figure it out, fell out in 2011. I think it was one of the things men claimed to have learned from everything that happened in 2008, in order to prevent one person from giving too much power, and somehow konstlers had to. I'm sure that's why this sentence went out of the jurisdiction. I'm ready to discuss how we can better distribute jobs around the country. I now often say in the way of the sea that I am a senator for the largest seabed in the country, so we can't be taken away from it all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u224	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. There's a few things in the bill I think it's worth looking at. One is 6. c., about the change in the Council of Management Board, these administrative projects and the proposed changes; all kinds of administrative projects have been implemented, but now they want to establish another tool within the board and within the board. My concern is that it lacks arm length. I feel a little inclined to, as was said of Ministers, to draw all things to myself. I think 6. spend some time in such a way. It is stated that even a special administrative committee may be established, which could be part of the court system to prevent the Ministry from ruling itself in its affairs. But what may be included in this - the reason for changing this - is that the research committee report says the need to strengthen the Ministry, strengthen the human resources, and all that. They are weak and ill - equipped to handle more difficult tasks. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: The number of counselors has now been divided and reduced, including once again a special industrial and commercial minister united within the Department of Employment. When the senator agrees with me that this is not going to work out together, i.e. that these may be suggested to support the Ministry for their small size, which is reduced again, including the exchange of both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Employment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u225	A respectable president. I just came into it in my speech earlier that I think 6. is a big deal, and that's why she can't be completely missed. We know that there have become many administrative institutions and decision - making committees to govern things. An agent has given particular attention in his recent reports, after setting up a administrative and surveillance committee, to be concerned about the source of a lot of independent administrative institutions and special ruling committees and to say that we are so limited that it is difficult even to get people with expertise to sit on those committees. I haven't completely formed an opinion of whether he's right. He has not said so, but he has called attention to this trend. I want to put this in touch with - because we were talking about it yesterday - this new Institute of Education. She's not supposed to be an independent institution. It should be heard under the Ministry, but, of course, some expertise will be transferred from the Ministry. I don't feel like there's a whole policy in where men are running this thing. This is not the only case in which people somehow step on what and where they are going, they do not fully understand. I'm worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u226	A respectable president. I agree with that, I'm sure there's too many surveillance committees, and I'm sure they can reduce their numbers. I agree that it can be justified. This may also apply to some administrative institutions. So I'm not saying it's completely wrong, any more than what. Senator. What caught my attention is that the Ministry is so small. This was one of the things that were considered on the part of the last government, and that is why the Ministry was expanded and tried to further it. But here it has been changed by the present government, and yet it is used as a logical support for, among other things, making administrative institutions. I think it's a little strange. There's something else I'd like to ask you. A senator, it's this with staff transfer, increased workers' mobility. I think I heard what. A senator comes in to see that she would agree, if I've heard the right thing. I have doubts. I think some of the points mentioned are important. Advertising can be transferred between the institutions and the institutions of the State, and there is nothing to say that they need to be advertised, i.e. if they are long-term. I think it's desirable to advertise future jobs. In fact, it is stated here that if an institution is being transferred into the Ministry, the job will be released in the Bureau or vice versa, and the second job is advertised, not the other. I don't think it makes sense, and I agree with the government organization, they've made a comment. I think it's only natural that we think that if we have qualified people - then it's also the one with the non-employment instinct - we can assume that the most qualified people will get the job, not just the one that is delivered without advertising. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-22-55.u227	A respectable president. First to mention this with the administration and the Ministry. I have to be honest with you, as it is, that I don't completely understand how this worked with the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and the Ministry of Business, which was taken out of no much department; I somehow have the feeling that there was a lot going on because some people were supposed to get ministers and others weren't. When the larger Ministry, the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Health were united and made this large, there was evidence of interference between projects, perhaps also being done to install departments, and especially with administrative projects. I'd like to say in general that all of this needs to be done very well. I'm on a different line than what. A senator with the employees. I agree on the basis that it's supposed to be advertising jobs that can be done for a long time. On the other hand, I am prepared to agree that if a job is transferred from one institution to another, the second job is advertised. I believe it is quite safe to increase the mobility of workers within the institutions and the Management Board. That's my opinion.
