ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u1	The discussions take three rounds, each group ten minutes in the first round, six minutes in the second, and six minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the organization, the Independence Party, the Left moving ◯ green supply, the forward group, the bright future, and the Pirantics. The speakers of the classes will be: For the United States of America, The Way of Hjörvar, the 9th. Smoke. s., in first round, in second Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 6th. South, and third Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, 11th. Smoke. n. The members of the Independence Party are Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, first round, Konráðsdóttir Konádótsdótttir, 4th. Southk., second round; and third round, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, fifth. Smoke. n. For the left movement, a green supply, Sagas Svavarsdóttir, 5th. Smoke. So, on the first round, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir 8th. Witchest. , in the second, but in the third round Ingi In Jónsson, 8th. Smoke. n. The panel officials are in the first round of Egilsdóttir Eglólsdóttir, 8th, p.m. That's the north side. "Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, 5th. We're out of here. , in the second, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, the third. South, round three. For Bright Future, Róbert Marshall's first round, 6th. Smoke. s., in the second Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir's daughter, 10th. That's the north side. , but on the third round Óttarr Proppé, 11th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" Pirata's speakers are the Helgi Holy Hrafn Gunnarsson, the 10th. Smoke. n., first round, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, q. We're out of here. "In second, but third round Jón Þór Ólafsson, 10th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount"
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u2	President. Good Icelanders. We've been given a lot of privileges, which are nature of the country and its vast resources. We don't need a new Iceland, we need a new democracy, because it was the politics that had impotence and corruption put an end to our success. And although people and businesses in the country are rising, the politicians aren't. Political work has diminished knowledge, management, and quality. Here we are sitting in the middle of a summer after months of objective debates about suggestions that were either retracted. In winter, many cases show the failure of the political work; the frame, the fishing business, the natural pass, the European Union letter, and other miseries that arouse people out of all classes of losers. We need to make radical changes, including changes. ensuring the right of both part and nation to national pay, pressing that more things at any given time respect my opinion and consult with the nation on the evolution of society instead of constant conflicting over everything or nothing. The Leather case reminds us of the dangers of the Ministership and the need for the intervention of the European Parliament, the media, and the people. The proposals of the Council to reduce Ministerhood and more part of the Council would be a major step forward. We also need to disassociate the adult politician, the politician who has so often stood in this chair, the politician who has given up the whole world, because he seems to be saying: " I'm right, and the rest are morons. ' Often, it's time to open up numbers to prove its success regardless of how successful it is. All thanks to him, in accordance with his exaggerated ideas on the importance of his own substance and influence. We must guard against becoming that politician, for he has no business today. We know that those who act like this are alone, undistracted, and not worthy of trust. On these beautiful summer days, we can have hope, for it seems that the seven - year - long work of people and businesses in this country is now being accomplished. That we, people of all categories and outcasts, all social groups, all classes, are now getting the national sink together. We should be grateful for this. But the great sacrifices that the homes of the country have made, especially poor and in debt homes, the homes that lost jobs, businesses, and savings, have given us much responsibilities. We're supposed to make sure we do better now. To do so, we need to make changes in government. Those who do not want to make changes would like to say: Yes, but it was not the constitution that set us down. That's true. But it was the political system, which works by the constitution that bankrupted the country, toxic the ties of political and commercial life, personal friendship with banks, lack of money policy and observation, failure of fortune - tellers, all of this made us bankrupt. And denying our management problem does not mean that we do not make the necessary changes to make history a repeat. Many things have also been reminded of in 2007 at this council. We've got the primes on the bank bonus again, on coin basket loans. Political involvement in the management of financial companies and efforts to gain political control over the property of the Lands Bank - 2007. As the secretary of the economy promises a tax reduction, the ban continues to increase. The sale of banks is discussed in the context of the swelling, without the obligation to distribute property. The banks go around buying up savings. Does anyone know it? The items of the State are sold without an invitation. Uncledness and the connection between politics and business life are a source of anxiety, and we still live in the same currency as 2007. The people and businesses in the country, they'll return theirs. But politics gives them the day off to work three times as much interest as in neighboring countries. Young people find it difficult to get an apartment, and their companies think about it. We need transparency and policy on politics and commerce. We need to reap far too expensive banking systems, but above all, we need to ensure the firm and discipline that comes with money policy, coin, and interest, as happens elsewhere in the North countries. Most of the policy, however, was inequated in 2007. This assembly began by raising food taxes in the public, which ends with reducing fishing costs to the project. What may have turned out to be self - determination and reasonable correction had to be impaired by the depositors and students being left out, with one and a half billion from the state's funds given to rich people. Scarers get 3% increase while others get 30%. All who make sacrifices, however, have a moral basis for recovery. When will rich people understand that equalizing is the best for everyone? It is simply best to live in countries where freedom and equality prevail. It's the highest standard of living. There is also a loss of peace in the job market. Contracts with private clinics resulted in division and eventually created a medical emergency. Finally, the government had no other option but to celebrate the birthday of women's election by removing the strike rights of major women. Yet, the greatest justice in our society is to spend a lot of pay between men and women, not to increase it. In 2007, however, our mistakes were also good. There's going to be a good thing to be, and with a big political change in the public interest, we can guarantee all human rights and opportunities. By turning the markets from a wicked master to a good slave, we can increase competition, equality, and improve terms. We can create young people with a place to live, a decent standard of living, education, and health care. The public political struggle has made great progress worldwide and has made it a better place to live. Let us not let the freckler destroy politics for us, for democracy can make our hopes come true. Our biggest chance is a new day. Let's get him up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u3	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. At the end of Congress, there are many factors that come to mind as to how the Senate work has been done up to this time. I refer to the U.S. President's address to the vote of Congress on October 1, 2013, where he turned aside from the lack of confidence in the work of the council and clearly mentioned the will of the senators to strengthen that trust. In that statement, it was an exhortation for us senators, at the same time a challenge to conform to their will in action. A council has passed, and it is now a matter of running its course. Clearly, we have lost sight of our role and vital work. As so often, each of us has no doubt as to what is to blame, even for who is to blame, that the work has not been better accomplished and has given us more confidence in the Senate work. But the best thing is to avoid putting yourself in the judgment seat, rather, in cooperation with other members, other groups, to produce changes that are likely to be successful in this regard. And without doing exactly that, sitting in the seat of the judge, I'm going to mention some factors that clearly I think will be of help. First, I would like to mention my opinion that it is important for a matter to live within the terms of the election rather than for them to come back to each assembly. This is a case that has to be done very well, but this is a change I think should work on. We also need to complete a review of some aspects of the Constitution. I can agree with the ones mentioned here that the Constitution's national pay is part of the changes we should take on and present at the fall council, vote for at the General Assembly, and then put on a constitution in the next year's binding Constitution. How important it is that speech time be made more available than it is at the Council! The president of the council has pointed out the importance of the committee work and that it can ensure less opportunities to address its views in ways that are different from those of long debates at the Assembly Hall. I strongly agree with that view. Other factors might be mentioned, such as that the president of Generalis has uncircumcised authority to direct Congress in accordance with a work programme. Good citizens of the country. Although I mention one thing or another that we can change into the law or rule to improve the development of democracy at the same time, it is far above all that at the Council always there is respect for the fundamental role that the Council plays in our government, that there is no doubt in the common understanding of us who are gathered here, of the common understanding that we choose to work here, that, regardless of the laws or rules of the Council, to pay for the progress of the council, of the conduct of the council in this way it reflects the importance of the work of those who are employed and the ruling of the World Council, the highest authority of the Republic. Sadly, it is so often and often that at least faith appears to come from this platform. The greatest criticism of the Council is often from this platform. From here on, the most frequent and frequent words have fallen to the state of the council. But I ask: "Who will increase the respect of the council if not those who have received, received commission, took place at the World Council of that time, along with the rest of the people who sit here at each other, a responsibility for the program of the council, and the conduct of the council hall? Who else is going to shoulder more responsibility than these people at any given time? There's been a review of Congress work. Now that we are in the middle of this ideal period, I believe that the members of the council will take it further to their particular discussion of how we will better meet the national expectations of being more specific and more successful for all the people of the country. The Party of Independence will come with full integrity and with genuine willingness to do it better. Good citizens of the country. The success of government activities is becoming increasingly apparent. The commercial power of the people has grown large, inflation has been low, professional in Iceland. We've dropped taxes, taken out the general interest rate. Now we've got to run down customs. All of this is to strengthen the position of the households, to strengthen the position of the employee in the country. Resentment of home - related activities has been carried out, increasing both the provision and the debt of the households. There were fewer than 94,000 individuals in 57,000 families. The domestic debt, which was at its maximum in 2009 when it went into 126% of GDP, is heading for about 86%. It is amazing how many people have in order to seem to be dealing with the government critical of these actions, as I often feel, almost out of concern. It is as if the same ones have completely lost appreciation for its importance and importance in their country's homes that they can better handle their commitments. The commitments of the households are now lower than those of Britain and are becoming similar to those of Norway. Good citizens of the country. Despite increasing financial resources and bright prospects, quarreling has been a prominent feature of this year's success. For a time, about half of the labour market were heading for a strike, but treaties took place in general markets and the administration of government by reducing taxes, as well as by other measures, helped to end these conflicts. I'm sorry that we didn't have an agreement with the League of colleges and Icelandic nurses in spite of conversation for weeks, and the state has offered 20% increases in this and the next few years. Expecting that the state could produce ahead and beyond the general market, which had yet produced significant increases over the years, was free of makeup. The Critic Criticism of the Council has in itself not included any solutions. There's been only so many discussions that there are supposed to be any demands. Criticism has gone so far that even the government's will to improve the terms of the taxpayers, which were well recommended in the labour market parties, has been difficult for the council here. I feel like I've been talking my ass in a ring in a box. To date, they have said: An increase in equation is everything. Then, when it is considered to be the greatest among the nations in Iceland, it is said that it needs to be done even more. However, when university students step forward and wish to separate themselves from other employees, they also support it, just as they insisted, when they asked for dozens of elevations, they were among those most elected among Kingdom citizens. They say that in another word, they emphasize the increased equation, but they support in the word, what to say, all the requirements of a better terms. It is true that the Community Convention in Iceland is important, but it cannot always be more than anything else. Our course of independence has always been to lift everyone from the bottom. I believe that the circumstances here have developed, the controversies that have been here, the developments that have occurred in the past few months, show that this is the way to progress and success. Good Icelanders. The schedule of suspension has been successfully received, both within the council and in the outside. Prior to the end of the council, the law and the whole case will be turned into a turning point for the economic outlook of this country. The shadow that the oceans have cast on economic conditions is already beginning to fall back, and it is shining over. Better credit ratings have considerable financial significance for all Icelanders. But this week just raised the government's credit score at Moody's. It stated that the reason is a presentation of carefully prepared measures to relieve capital capital capital, hopes for better debt, and maintenance of state affairs, and a better rule to maintain financial stability. This is an important recognition of Icelandic economic and financial status. The economic foundation is high, the number of tourists is increasing, even beyond the most optimistic forecasts. The demand for clean energy is increasing. The variety in industrial development is increasing rapidly. It's a good way to get to the seaside. In recent years, companies have made a great contribution. The position of fish stocks and market development has been a blessing to us. According to government budgets, the proportion of the state will decline substantially over the years and has not been considered to be a further reduction in debt that may open with a budget of capital decommission. When you take all these things together and we Icelanders just lift us up, lift our heads up, look around, see what problems we have in many of our neighboring nations, other nations in Europe, watch the news from day to day. According to one authority, the common currency is the solution to all problems. But is that true throughout Europe today? It doesn't look like it to me. A survey of the commercial level in Iceland compares to that of other countries. Stop basic construction roads. Economic growth. We are now living on one of the longest consecutive economic growths of later years. After all, it is obvious that we Icelanders today have to continue working on this position, continue to improve the standard of living for those in need, where our strength is to increase rapidly, to do better in that area as for all the rest of Iceland. That is why I say, the situation has rarely been as bright as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u4	President. Good Icelanders. So unusual for kitchen - day talks this time are at the beginning of July and have never been so late in history. Congress has been driving virtually on the ground for months and the administrative point on long periods of inequities. The prime minister is on the run from his dealings with the council and his dealings with the nation; there are many cases where he runs out of here or responds to objective criticism by danger, now at the beginning of the week, in his last discussion of contracts with demands. While there have been divisions and inconsistencies in the work of the government, the opposition of the government has been working together in the fight for a better community. In VG we have emphasized the basis for that solidarity in many matters. Our gaps and inconsistencies were not successful during the last season, and we left greens have learned much from this experience. We have been able to create a solidarity within our own ranks, as well as the entire government. The result is clear success, some of the discrepancies that the government was going to force through the council has been halted, with the highest standards of unprecedented changes in the framework, although there are many more examples. It worked because we stuck together. But the government situation has not only been consistent in opposing, it has also held together for a proposal, and with the initiative to make significant changes in the direction of equality and democracy. The government set up a change in the budget with social emphasis and also suggested a proposal to set the European Union in a democratic road. All of us have spoken for increased democracy, equal transparency, female freedom, and environmental issues, although there is some distinction between classes. In the majority of Reykjavík, this is the statement by agreement with VG, the United States, the Bright Future and Pirata, by permission of the President: ▪ With honesty and honesty guided, we will learn from one another, forming a group that is richer than the sum of our summers. It's a good guide to me, and a guide to work on it. The government, on the other hand, has been inexorably under control and has not been able to keep things going. There is no perspective, not an overall view, but often each minister is in a position to fight for his or her own business, and there are even cases where the minister's continuation is not even available. Evidently, and it has been seen during the winter, that there is little solidarity in the administration team. There is a conflict between government classes, including bank booths and state banking, emphasis on the management of fishing, housing, and other facilities. Even the government groups have not been able to agree on how to celebrate the New Age of the Commonwealth, where they are proposed to be trapped in the Congress of the Independence Party. But we have also been responsible for government opposition, opposition that has shown this when there is a need for a meeting in unusual times, or measures such as the current economic and business committees, and deals with demands. Thus, we differ from the position of government that was here during the last term and who opposed big things and small ones, sometimes no matter who they were. Our next step in VG is to continue to contribute to creating a solid basis for new policy based on integrity, equality, and democracy. We need to do so by stopping the produce of a few of the produce and bringing it to the people of the land. We do so by building a land hospital that we can all be proud of by promoting and supporting all schools rather than undermine the educational system, building them down, and promoting divisions. For example, close schools for 25 years and older, squeeze different schools into the same mold, and unite them with authority. We do this by creating a solid basis for the change in constitution, changes that begin democracy, bring power to the people, and get both nature and resource aocratic place. Environmental protection and protection should be in the foreground and gender equality both in word and on table. We need to control the spell and make good use of the economy, meet the groups in which they are in favor of their feet, and eliminate poverty in Iceland. It's not meant to be tolerated. The democracy is not just a yes or a no, a simple access to decision-making or just elections or votes in rural areas or in the whole nation. The democracy is about to have a voice throughout the year and ways to promote opinions and viewpoints, the scene for open and living discussions. The democracy covers all aspects of human life and has many dimensions. In a democracies community not only do elections and frequent votes but also without barrier access to any kind of education, the powerful media in public service, and the equal opportunity for any group of society to participate. All of this is the classic struggle between the left and socialistic people all over the world. People need easy access to information, good education, the media that criticize rulers, a clear view of money, and a wide variety of human life. Society must be removed from barriers. Bioavailability is essential to participation and participation is essential to democracy. Not only are we talking about access to buildings or public space but we are also talking, access to discussions, access to areas in which the board is employed, in power institutions, at work places, in communities, in homes, and in schools. Sometimes this is where interpretation, sometimes a wording is needed, sometimes a better sound, sometimes a special consideration for a wide variety of social groups is needed. You see, democracy can't be just for some people, it has to be for everyone. In this way we are to organize our community and clear up paths as possible. Good citizens of the country. Now that the season is half over, the next election is about to begin. Now it's time to talk about the comparable vision of those who don't support right policy, old-fashioned work tricks, texting, rich people's skins, tunes of a chicken fight and an increase in social inequities. Iceland deserves better. In VG, we all worry about the health system. The system is running low. The government is under attack on the system, its staff and its infrastructure. Health care professionals are in charge of their struggles and are not met with the righteous demands of BHM and nurses on pay reflecting education and enduring comparison with neighboring countries. The nation's leading executives tug at the forward view, the construction of a land hospital is constantly postponed, the staff of health - care professionals have a lack of overall policy barriers while the government is flirting with privacy and increased user fees in health care. Some private health care companies, who do not seem to cause the project and who are more critical than are allowed to continue with the blessing of the government. At the same time, news from the owners of these companies is coming to invest in farm houses. It is, of course, intolerable and is contrary to the will of the public but is at the same time completely in the spirit of the government of the right men. This was not chosen in the last election, and it has to be stopped in the next one, because sooner, the better. The nation wants a good and powerful health system that is open to all, how and wherever we stand. President. The administrative body at the General Assembly is clearly following the idea of the simple majority of old-fashioned regulations. This reflects the words of one minister after another, and may we recall the words of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, chairman of the Independence Party, when he spoke here in a talk: The rest of the speeches. Such attitudes are directly harmful to democracy. This suggests that the power is uncontaminated and that criticism is of no importance. They act as though their attitudes and actions are under way and have come to the fore. The idea is that the smaller portion can be set aside, restricting its chances to present its vision, shortening its speech time, and restricting its freedom of speech. The public is ignored, and they refer to elections as uncircumcised and permanent agencies that cannot be doubted. The idea is that surveys should be ignored, that protests lie on misunderstandings, that protests are presented in the wrong place, or at the wrong time. It is best to remember the June 17 protests that the prime minister decided not to take to heart in any way, but public anger and resentment are real, and it is important to listen to them. Perhaps it is our most important task to listen rather than give commendation, to glorify our own actions, our divisions, and our nation. Good Icelanders. This session has taught us an important lesson. The result must be a reevaluation of our work practices and practices here at the General Assembly. More and more open conversation must be done, and the more part must be replaced by force and bullying. The issues presented here have caused most of the problems, so most of them have been broken backwards so that the results of the board of directors are little or no one. Tungdapolis and the majority must be no more. Unorthodox markets and moneyism are everywhere a curse, a threat to equal human rights and to human rights worldwide. It leads to war, forces people to poverty, causes global warming, and damages our environment, nature, and resources. We all see how difficult it is to break down the damage these forces are doing around the world as they are in this country, and this reminds us that the struggle with wealth is a struggle without a border. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u5	V.E.G. President. Fine Icelanders. Now that the season is half over, it is good to pause, take the position, look back, consider what has been achieved as soon as you look forward to it. Iceland is just fine, but not perfect, like any other country on Earth. Of the populous debate, however, it may even be thought that this is the land of misery alone, for it seems easier to discuss what is negative than to believe in the positive aspects, though it may be that there are some positive facts on which we as a nation can be proud and rejoice. It is the responsibility and duty of all of us to work to improve our community and bring it into better condition for future generations. This is what I think is the objective and ideal of all those who get into this room. Still, we naturally differ from one another. During the two years since the election season, efforts have been made toward this goal. One of the greatest values in the past few years is that economic stability has been established after difficult times. It is the greatest failure of all, and especially of those whose feet are in the community, that inflation remains constant, and to a minimum, and that the level of money keeps rising. In the past two years, these goals have been reached. It is a good result that the entire community benefits. The wealth of provisions has grown, the unemployment rate has decreased, and the prosperity of employment has increased to some point. In the context of a wise government policy, the ancient hellish paymen, inflation, have jumped, and must now look back ten years in time to find a comparable period of stability. Then there are certain measures taken by the government by increasing the provision of the people of the land. Which both increases the potential for saving and adds access to goods and services. The adjustment, one of the largest economic operations of later years, is now being accomplished. The recent financial report on its implementation shows that it has been as a letter on a book since the introduction of the operation and is likely to be searching for an operation in Icelandic political history that has been on every budget and deadline. It is a pleasure to see in the financial secretary's report confirmation of the procedure's presentation that the lowest earns most of the income and much increase in income. Correction has reduced the total number of households in 40 percentage points over the past four years based on national production in 2014. It must remember that. And now, the government plan of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnlerson's case of decommission by capitalists at last has been seen, a plan that has been celebrated by most of the world's home and is trustworthy in a foreign suspicion confirmed by, for example, the rise in Moody's borrowing of Iceland. The successful implementation of this strategy promises a better setting for the general public, businesses and investors and, if successful, will allow for an even greater structure than it already has already been. Good citizens of the country. The weather has been over many hard times, and it has been obvious that a great deal of fatigue and intolerance are in people's minds after long periods of stress. Man's prospects for improvement are high. Things may not go as fast as many hope, but we've seen better than that, both in our country's economics and in international comparison, that our progress is slowly improving. Much has been accomplished, even though there was a possibility of more expectations. We want to build the land for the future. This requires that we keep our decisions in proper perspective. Unless our experience with the so - called United States economic wonder reminds us that in these matters there is pox and not a charge for joy. I think the bad news is the best thing to do. The important thing is that people get the strength and help to recover. This will only result in stability so that people can be confident that tomorrow will be like today, without surprises. The goal of the government is to provide this fighting so that the people of the land can find peace to build up their lives for the future. Of course, there is much work to be done, even though much has been done. Good citizens of the country. As a nation, we have been fortunate enough to have mastered the land's fishing grounds. This is different from many other nations around us. Fish stocks are self-sustained, and Icelandic fish are sought after on a foreign market. The success of Icelandic fishing is based on the hardness of people who work in this article and a powerful chain of values. It is simply not enough to have a ship to make something valuable. They need to know how to catch the fish, they need to know how to work the fish, and that's where they know how to sell the fish. Thus, respect covers everything from market to intensive marketing and foreign market sales. It may be nice to look at things in a slightly larger context than we do on a daily basis. It enables us to see that only the sea route in the OECD, which is not state - strengthd. The marine road here, for example, provides large amounts of money to the State but does not promote the government, as some have seen. It is not, nor will it ever be, the private affairs of the fishing road itself, that it will do well for a longer or shorter time. Such an assignment is the common objective of the industry itself and the government at one time. It is necessary to create an environment that encourages investment, innovation, and practicality in the article itself. True, we can always do better, and that certainly is what we are trying to do. It is quite clear, however, that we will not succeed in overthrowing the present system of things in its entirety. Rather, it will be done in small and progressive steps, just as the macrollar bill in our council was arranged. The bill was not at peace here in the house, even though all the requirements were met, both within the council and outside. It is sobering to think that groups cannot short - lived bills that meet their viewpoints at the same time when their members frequently complain of lack of communication. For example, there was a single - party stand that depends on whether an answer was made by president or vice president. It seems that the main reason for the rounding process is to use uncertainty as a political strike for the fishing organization. Such an attitude is irresponsible, and it does not result in increasing the respect of the Generals. Fine Icelanders. It is fundamental that Iceland and I would like to create a situation for flourishing countrywide. To do this, you need to consider many things, both the fabrics and the interiors. Transport and access to services and networks are our most important projects. Work is now under way in preparation for the network of all homes in the country, and an important step has been taken toward reaching the level of house - to - house heating costs throughout the country. During the next three years, 112 billion are spent on transportation, and immediately this year we will spend 1,800 million on major road projects. Although transportation is an important part of society, today it is a time for people to view it as a realistic possibility to work anywhere in the country and to be in good communication. All of us in the country know that equality must be achieved in these matters. This is vital to family life, homes, employment, and the nation of all nations. Its infrastructure must be solid, so that there can be a flourishing landscape all over the country, to the sea, and to rural areas. A secure network provides evidence that schools can have more cooperation, meetings can be held without cost of traveling, farmers, and other professional drivers can do their job and duty. There are countless things hanging on the stick, but here I would also like to mention distant health care, a case that was being discussed at the General Assembly today. We need strong infrastructure into society. We are living in a country filled with resources and are to be used with moderation and sustainability. We have environmentally-friendly energy production, a new business is growing as never before, a fishing route is powerful, and tourism is growing. This results in a great deal of money that can be used to create a country in which all of us agree that no one should have to suffer in need. Continued responsibilities in the economy and employment structure throughout the country are the key to this work. Good Icelanders. We have shown that we can carry on a large task. We still have work to do, opportunities to do, and responsibility is ours. Icelandic society is a cooperation project. Let's work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u6	Good Icelanders. President Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was during the days honored in a memorable way. Last time I saw Vigdís in the Mela shop, she was giving orders to a young man who works at the meat table for the fish she was buying. This was the woman who said: "No, I'm not supposed to be chosen because I'm a woman, because I'm supposed to be chosen because I'm a man, and inside a man is a man and a woman. That thought can hardly be put more well. That was Vigdís's opinion, and then she was president for 16 years. In our society, men become presidents and then back to normal people in the Mela shop. In our community, it's a powerful opinion, if not based on damaging prejudice, not on who has it. Our opinion on the nature and substance of the presidency is equally valid; my opinion, the Vigdís and the young man's meat table in Melahu. Yet, it is so that the current president is quite different from the president of Vigdís. The government is different. How can it be in our society where opinions and votes should have equal force that one man can change one of the most important institutions of society according to his own authority? More than that, have a right to make a decision based on a clear and clear argument about what subjects the people will be able to say about them, and it is difficult to sit in this room under the speeches of Ólafur Grímsson, son of Grimin. At times, you may feel that members of Congress should be able to respond. If the president is to be political, he is to submit to political reasonings that contradict viewpoints with physical reasoning. But does this remarkable discrepancy between the interpretations of Vigdís Finnbogadóttir and Ólafur Ragnar Grimas son of Grímsson indicate that there is something wrong with the basics of our community, that they need to explain? That's what I think. Therefore, and for other important reasons, we have in the short future been amateurs of the Constitution, of a new constitution. We were participants in legislation and developments during the last term, leading to a major milestone in the Constitution, though that is far from port. We, along with others, proposed an idea that would make it easier for us to do some administrative changes along with next year's election. It was to save the process and also to ensure balance between conflicting views. You also need to take into account those who want to have little change in constitution. Those who consider it a great betrayal that a new constitution was not completed during the last term must look to how the current body of Congress had accomplished these changes. He would never have approved them. In the same word, those who want to use the majority of countries to force new infrastructure into the country cannot speak of themselves as a representative of a new era in Icelandic politics, for there is the old - fashioned political act that has marked the Senate contract in the last few weeks and months, and it means that they do not speak to less of it until the longest law. The more important part is that politics is called, and from the point of view, it is as important as each one's opinion. In the majority of the people, the ability to set the program is, sort into chairs, appoint a government, but it doesn't zero the opinion of the smaller part. It's off and on. The power comes with the responsibility of taking into consideration different viewpoints. It's a historic opportunity we have next year to determine our course, to choose a president, and to change the constitution. In many respects, final hours. Then there will be a day in which we can determine what kind of future we want. It is important that the options are real, that the changes in the Constitution can be chosen, not for the end of the process, but for the beginning of a new restoration where the basic laws and power institutions reflect the diversity of our society and set policy, that the new president supports that development and as part of the change rather than the threshold. It is our personal responsibility to determine the future. It's your vote that watches this broadcast that lays the foundation for our community. You're the one who sees this online, the one who puts it on Facebook, the one who decides that your opinion is as relevant as the opinion of the senators, Ministers and the President. You're the ones who are listening to who chose this council. If you are unhappy, you must choose better next time, choose better, and be careful and do not get excited about your promises. It's political. Read policies. Let's see some words. It takes effort to participate in democracy. What was that correction? 1,250 homes that paid a wealth tax were corrected. What a freak. That's my opinion. She's not rude. It is the same as that of others. Speaking about politics without arguing is a challenging challenge. Me and the Icelanders need something to be careful about. There's a lot of bad murder around here, and we need to fix it. How? Not by talking less than by talking to each other, but by talking more. It's our politics in the bright future. Here at the council, everything's been going down in the last few weeks. I'm telling you, things wouldn't be like this if there was a bright future. We weren't gonna be in charge like this. A major issue has been brought forth here with no consultation or in total, and the result is a pat position. Fortunately, the government situation has the ability to stop and avoid accidents and has shown this, last in a frame plan, that it has performance and solidarity to do so. Today, we have voted for the introduction of Investigation to the Þjórður of a lateness party. Of these, opinions are divided into members of the Council of Hearts. Some with and others, like myself, against. The most important point is that the proposal has been given to the Management Board on the Framework Programme and is recommended by its transfer between classes, which is said to be more than any other advantage that the majority of the Parliament would want to move to the use of. Although I don't want to change the landscape and the way things are going, I can only say that the matter was evaluated and applied in accordance with the rules, the rules we've decided. The results of activation initiatives have become an environment operating channel in Iceland, but should not be solely put in booths; environmental health care or not. In a bright future, our ideas are marked by the emphasis on eco-friendly transport and the nearby services of the urban village, where walking and cycle traffic are made high below the head. The environment is in our understanding of organizational matters, lifestyle and consumers. They are a people's health, and they are socially and commercially acceptable. They're not left or right. Like our views on community matters, they are all over the world, the responsibility of individuals as well as of business, community, and community. In the village of the city, your neighborhood will be like a small town in the country, and the people will view it as their duty to direct their trade there, choosing with your wallet, for otherwise this service will leave the neighborhood. We want to make good use of and do good, stop waste. Improved transport, more dense and more regional cores in all parts of the world are environmental. All of us have personal responsibilities. What we do shape our environment. We can be responsible for the sustainable use of natural resources and our consumption practices. We can watch waste as a precious resource. We can make full use of products that fall into the production of food on sea and land. We can improve the classification of household waste. We should establish a national order system. We can increase human health and encourage people to use energy - sparing routes and eco-friendly purchases. We can use sustainable approaches to improve and make better use of the environment of cities and towns. We can increase our awareness of the environment. We have to think about our water, our air, our dirt. So whether we are green or not is our personal responsibility to be green and environmental. A bright future is a new category. Perhaps it is up to us to become like the old classes. One is and will be different, and may not seem to be a big thing, but in the bright future, it is not up and down when presidents have given a talk. That embarrassing foolhardy is deliberately avoided, not because our bosses don't give marvelous talks, they do, but because everyone's opinion is equally remarkable. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u7	Well, Mr. Honorable President, it's time to announce the Council of the United States in just a few minutes. It is fine training in making an intolerable long story short, but in order to prevent the charges of filament, I will only be quick to boast. The Piras have provided the bill for the execution of data sources, the bill on the conditions of telephone calls and access to communications, the bill on registration of children to religious and human research, the primary journal on the life-time of Congress at the General Assembly - something more important than many people are aware of - the continuation of forced sales, the bill on information and securities, the bill on selling hunting rights and markets, the bill for interest-employers, the bill for the police's phoners (i.e. the condition of the telephone barns and comparable speeches), the bill for the execution of prison penalties for the expression of opinion, the bill for violation of the prohibition against blasphemy. Consuming proposals for the establishment of consents, validating the optional accounting of the United Nations Convention on torture - another case that does not seem to be large, but is very important and good - independent police operations and practices, condemnation of the U.S. intelligence services, which you would have thought would have made it easier to pass through, equal access to the Internet, which everyone should agree on, the use of the Internet and the correct protection of Internet users, and last but not least the best international Congress, the revision of the Republic of Iceland. This is in addition to any opposition or support for other issues, special discussions, inquirys, and so forth. Lots of music. First, I'd like to say that people outside the council are worthy of assistance in these matters. I don't know what people think of these efficiencys, but I have to say, in the past few months, an amazing time and a loss of work has occurred. Every second day is like the end asenas in a show of the 'Game of Thrones, only one thing you know is that there is likely to be some perfect horror about to take place. In fact, in the past few months, it is only reasonable that the President's meeting board be given many speeches, which each one will only one minute, and in the circumstances in which we have lived, with the exception of being listened. Yet, much is also critical of the action of the council, a dignified president. In itself, it is not necessarily a sitting president's meeting board at any time that has been most critical, although it has been a long - term chronic consideration, but primarily how a meeting government develops over time from the current body of Congress, constitution, and the fact that the president of the council is also a member of the government class with political consequences. With these words, I do not consider myself to be detracting from respect or inculcating a respectable president. Rather, I prove it. If she doesn't feel comfortable, that should tell us something. Yet, I do not intend to detract from the practice of a so - called proverb, which, in fact, is a subject that is easy to confuse with a natural and long discussion. It would be dishonorable to voters'judgment to act like the government would not compromise their language. Pirats have participated in what we are obliged to do if we are going to work on the policies that we are elected to work on. As surprising as it may sound, it is directly the democratic duty of a minority to engage in a filibuster. If people in this room think they're wrong, they're in good company because they think I'm the Pirates, too. It doesn't change that this is the only thing we have, so give us merciful weapons, and let us, therefore, be glad to do it. It is obvious that if the majority of them are always to be employed in the shelter of one or two letters from voters every four years, the smaller portion weighing about 40% of the Council may just as well go back to their homes after election. Would that be demeaning? Would it be democratic? At my first speech at the High Council, I said that we would win by convincing. I believed it then and a part of me still believes it. But the controversy that exists here at the General Assembly with this body of Congress and this constitution does not make you hope that it is available to the extent to which it should be. Hope has begun to remind us of fantasies. But then I'm like John Lennon's esteemed musician: I can be called a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. We could do the game of comparing a discussion about President's conference board during this terms with the endless five-minute administrations of a sitting officer during the last term, but that game would be in vain. Communion is a real, systematic problem that I don't know that the Piratars ever thought they would. None of us are above the sea, not when the distrust is so much deeper than differences in individual matters. President. We must recognize that we do not trust one another. The knot must be cut down, and there is no one to do it better than the nation itself. But by the way, a respectable president, the solution to the problems that arise as a result of pressure and superpower is simple and obvious: the greater rate of the public between elections. If we are going to make ourselves like a child in a fit of freckles, as we do, we can also pretend that more people are there, either clean up for us, eat us, or work hard for us, a authority greater and stronger than we ourselves, and fully able to settle our differences, the Icelandic nation. If we listened to her more, who knows? I understand that if we do not rely on them personally, people would mistrust us with their affairs. But let's finish this off with a positive tone, a respectable president, like the esteemed musician Jónas Sigurðsson sang with a dignified band, future editors, with permission of the president: Let me out of this party. We're in a lot of trouble here. Let me out of this complicated charade who will never end up like Good Soldier Svejk. Let me out of here with a damp smoke. With damp smoke. It's not easy being stuck in thisanworm-sized party. We're like hotels, and our guests are the ideas of all the others. Einar goes and another comes later today and new delusions are always added to the gap. We're struggling to lend money for others to keep drinking. And to buy new things for others to press the spell. So this endless work for others to pay for the party. And you never come out to breathe. Someone will stand up in the hall and say: But life is just so complicated! I say no! Somebody's gonna call in the show and say: You have to be realistic. I say no! To avoid falling into the opinion of the others, you must be careful not to make mistakes. No! I've had enough of this shit. Let's take this on a different level.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u8	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. It is burning upon us as officers to ensure that every member of the country's community is always accessible to good health and education. We want to strengthen our welfare system and settle the country's ideals. The health system situation is very serious. We are faced with a fourth hundred health - care professionals who have left their jobs throughout the country and most of them at the Land Hospital. Problems due to a lack of health care providers are faced. Laws in a chicken fight and threats of cutbacks are not to improve the situation. A national budget adopted yesterday by more of the council said that if the cost of earnings goes above 2% a year, the cuts to the headcount or to the level of work to meet those costs will be paid. There is no chance that this government plan will increase the satisfaction of healthcare professionals, the success of the job, or the loss of staff. It would almost be that governments would find ways to reconcile viewpoints and assess the importance of the work for society and that they would realize that action, and their lack of action after incidents, is life - threatening. This situation undermines the health system, one of the most important services in society. And there is reason to be concerned, for the health system did not come well from the quality of the family so called for a collapse when opportunities for building up were met. As a result, the cutting became more painful than it had to be. At the same time, the number of patients has increased as a result of the population's increasing age. All of this has increased the pressure on our health care providers, and it deserves better than being threatened by the government for even greater work loads instead of restitution. Whether the health system is being starving to promote private business, the government's plans for increasing private health care management will not be a concern for health care, especially the hospitals. The plans are in opposition to national willingness, for the nation wants to run health systems themselves and provide access to all without regard to the economy. The same is true in our educational system. Instead of adding extra money to high school after finishing high school, the right government decided to set the number limit for book studies so that those 25 years of age no longer have a chance to complete their homework. Instead, they will attend a private school in Southnes, or in urban property, and the cost of study will be multiplied. With all due respect for the work there is going to be, not all will be able to move national squares to complete high school with these conditions. A good access to schools has a positive effect on the level of education in the nation, thereby producing and producing economic growth. In addition, education strengthens the social status of people. Obstacles that are put in the way of those who want to pursue education are thus an inherited operation, and no matchmaker could think of it. If the government's policy is to become active, we, this small nation, have a three - fold system of government - funded high school education, public high school, private schools, and the ever - increasing education center. Sadly, the result will be weaker school systems when energy is spread in this way and in poorer educational opportunities. High school in the United States must reduce the availability of all those reaching out for high school, including young people, 16◯19 years of age. This does not make us as good regionalism or a vision for the future. The world's major economists have declared the shipwreck of liberalism and its bread - breaking teachings and are now encouraging nations to promote an even greater degree. Through a series of studies of living conditions worldwide, scholars have shown that communities that are the best communities in the spirit of peers. It is best to consider that children will grow up and care for older ones. In communities where there is an equality, people in general are more healthy and content with life, with low rates of crime. There are communities that are certainly worth fighting for. It was our dream that the results of the restoration of economic and social conditions during the last term would be used to further increase the equation and to promote equality and justice in society. The most effective alternative tools are stepwise income taxation systems, where everyone they can add a fair share to society, including those with the most money between, as well as good child benefits to balance the status of children, housing and social security benefits that hold on to pay development and ensure the status of those who need to rely on compensation. And everyone's access to health services and schools regardless of the economy as well as collecting fair incomes from the nation's resources to support a wide range of economic and welfare. My fellow Americans. After the 2008 economic breakdown, national meetings and discussions with the nation were provided about the values to restore society and a review of a constitution. The main theme of all that work was a call and an equation of everyone's access to education and health care. That is and has always been our goal as superior. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u9	President. Good Icelanders. It is a privilege to be trusted with voters for the task of serving at the Allied Parliament. Here we deal with ideas and decisions that shape our society for the future. I can't stand here tonight without remembering a dead partner and friend, Pétur H. Blöndalur, who just died and sat on the council until then. Pétur was a zealous fireman, not afraid to hold his own convictions, regardless of whether they made him popular or not. He burned such issues as equality, human rights, older citizens' affairs, and disability, and he believed in the individual's freedoms in the widest sense. Pétur's qualities to hold firmly to his own convictions, to respect the opinions of others, and to be fearless in making difficult decisions should be developed by all good members of the body. Like Pétur, I want to live in a land of equal opportunities, where all individuals have equal opportunities to create their own opportunities and enjoy the fruits of their own work. Our association is made up of people with many ideas and powers. These ideas and powers are to be used on their terms, not on the basis of politicians or the system. I want to live in an open, democratic society that protects the human rights of all people, regardless of social status, opinion, gender, or economic status. Iceland is supposed to be a dreamland for young people to live in. During today's average period, we have taken many good steps in the right direction, zealously working to secure economic stability that is essential to other factors. The most important projects ahead are further simplified tax system and tolls, increased equality, more efficient housing systems, and the disposal of currency waste. The struggle for greater equality requires the contribution of both sexes and people from all categories. The increase in equality is economic. The company in this country can afford only to make use of women's powers and abilities as well as men. The experience of companies who have trusted women to the highest degree shows that. Increased individual and professional freedoms are the best way to improve standard of living. Only by growth can we increase society's well - being. It's supposed to be a basic theme in all our jobs that the interests of industry and households go together, and these interests are each side of the same coin. In the commercial world, the value, the values that depend on the standard of living, education, and well - being of all of us. To increase their growth, individuals and businesses must live with freedom, freedom to choose for themselves what they earn, freedom to choose a career and study that is acceptable, and freedom to express their views in speech and literature. The box created by politics is designed to motivate people to action. They're going to pay for their jobs. If we lose sight of the goal of giving freedom to people and businesses because we are so busy deciding what to do with the money that comes in the Kingdom box, we lose both our freedom and our money. We should not be afraid to provide additional sources to our country's companies, e.g. to hire foreign experts. We need to see the opportunities it takes to welcome new Icelanders who want to establish a home and participate in our community. More freedoms in business are improving the chances of employment growth and evolution, leading to increased consumer competition for the better. In recent decades, many good efforts have been made in terms of increased business freedoms, and government efforts have diminished from business to business in many areas. It is now time for exceptions to hear if governments or rural groups are involved in business. While there is the exception of the government's private sale of alcohol, we continue to take monopoly upon it. At the end of this council, we finally see the fruitage of the work that has been done for the past few months here at the council. There have already been some progress issues, but others need to wait for a better time. The main strategist has been the change from a greater part of the employment committee to a frame plan that included setting activation options in lower Tubular wounds and Hag water activation in the colony class. The initiatives discussed in Þjótur are very well investigated, and it is time to determine whether or not they should be used or protected. We need the energy to build up more employment opportunities to improve the country's standard of living. The biggest job of Icelandic politicians in the months ahead is to cut off the currency lords. It is, therefore, especially happy that we are on our way to removing the oceans under the strong financial minister and in good cooperation of all the classes here at the council. May we be lucky to take them step by step in the next losing together. It is such a solidarity that our country needs. Free from oceans, all roads are available to us. When emissions have been accomplished, it would be appropriate to recite the final verses of the poem ◯Island, by the Guðrún - given daughter of Auðunsdóttir of the Great Wall under the English Mountains: When the sun comes in the spring Warms both stair and lay, Joyful Day for the People The freedom now to be seen. Then is the feast of holy things. The hearts are full of love. The association of all of Iceland's clans East and north. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u10	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. The Council has been marked by a conflict of how we want our community to be in Iceland. Do we want to see that there is an equalizing society here, or will the nation be brought back from the right forces into the wrong and inequities that played a major role in the fall of the gambling city in 2008? In Iceland, we live in an abundance country, yet there are still various offenses and discrepancies that we should eliminate. We are a rich society with plenty of resources to both land and sea, and all the grounds are that there is a state equal to the standard of living among the inhabitants of the country and that the generation that is now growing up has the equal opportunity to make the most of its abilities in society. The reality is different for a very large group, unfortunately. In Iceland, too many children live in poverty. Increasing poverty among children is a wound and is a social ill. Poverty is much more likely in children of single parents, joblesss, underpayers, and children of immigrants. Such trends can lead to long - term consequences for children. Children who are unable to provide a normal quality of life may not be within reach of their future abilities. As a community, we must improve the position of those who may be remembered. Poverty must not be passed on to a nation so rich, but it is reflected in the fact that 70% of the nation's property belongs to 10% of its population. The government that reduces taxes to the wealthiest and falls from a step - by - step tax system, lowers the fishing costs and then increases the food tax on the public in the country, does not contribute to society. The government suggesting that bank booths be reassigned in the financial system, that there will be more payoffs in the health system, that unemployment will be reduced, and that there will be limited access to the high school system does not contribute to society. The government that will continue to deliver the few chosen natural resources of the country on a silver plate, such as the mackerel does not divide the country. The government that is going to ignore all the short-term laws of the road and use the valuable natural spheres of the country that exchanges for major industrial structures do not work in the country. The government using over 80 billion in debt because of the highest income, 1.5 billion were given to a demolition and 1,250 homes paying wealth taxes received a loan reduction - this operation does not help to settle in the country. The government that cuts down money to the welfare system, transport, education, and component projects, such as the parish plan, does not contribute to the integration of the country. There are also imbalances between parts of the country in access to a variety of services, education, health care, transportation, high - speed connections, energy prices, and products, to name something. Plans are expected to increase the population here in the capital area over the next 25 years by 70 o'clock. ... aman. That's nearly 90% of the population predicted by the Habitat in the country for the next 25 years. These predictions should be of great concern to all of us, not only to the inhabitants of the land but also to all who want to see the inhabited earth around it, have the potential to grow and thrive. For a small and small nation, it cannot be successful to develop a city state with its relevant costs for the capital area. The government must respond with all its means, so we do not face the widespread decline of the land to both the sea and the country. The landscape has many opportunities, both for the construction of tourism and innovation, in many parts of the world, in both the marine and the agricultural areas and in various ways of subsidies in many countries that support it. But the number of people in the country may not be satisfied by saying that it is a natural law of nature. Many young, educated people want to settle outside the capital area, and people who live outside the capital area would want to stay there if the service stage is similar to that of the capital area. I believe the government was asleep in regard to the urban development of the country in the last few decades and has brought up some small-dose cures when the trauma has struck. Much of the problem of land-infested people has been brought about by government decisions, such as the infamous saying that has saluted the great and strong. I began my talk by speaking inexorable terms, and it is found in many places, both among people and between territories. Research by respected scholars has shown that inequities within society lead to a decline in economic growth and decline in economic conditions. Left greens are groups that want to increase the equation in society, let nature enjoy the doubt, promote the welfare system, and build up the interior parts of the country. In the winter, we have demonstrated our work that we do not allow incredulous practices to overtake us and that we will not unwarrantedly allow this government to do vandalism on the welfare system or on other services that will be based on the equation. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u11	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. The political competition is taking steps to achieve goals aimed at improving the standard of living for a nation. Our existence from one day to the next is at stake. In that race, no one is supposed to have to lose. How do we appreciate the results of our work and conduct at the Council and the Government? What have we accomplished now when we are halfway through this terms? Now is the time and place to review what has been done, why and why. Homes are the foundation and drive of the economy, and the government put home first. The debt - based economy is heavy, and it was recommended to work particularly on homes and state funds but always stress economic stability. Let us now examine the results on the basis of goals set out in the Treaty of the Government of the Multitude and Independence Class. 1st Get a balance on the state's budget. Why? Reaching the debt of state funds, reducing interest payments, and working for stability. 2. Get down the debt of the house. What for? To increase their provisions. 3. An operation plan to relieve the capital capital. What for? Try to solve the vulnerable state of the nation's population and the financial problems we face. What is the standard now that we appreciate it here in the middle of the season, in the middle of a race, and see how things have worked out? My fellow Americans. We've established the government's budget, and we've given left money each year instead of a palace and a six - year debt supply. It is particularly enjoyable to see 2014's income well beyond the budget. The economic situation of the Icelandic nation has thus become stronger and is characterized by the development of historical economic stability with lower inflation, less unemployment, increased buying power, increased demand for the economy and economic growth, resulting in a positive impact on Kingdom growth. Thus, the government has achieved its goal of stabilising the government and has provided long - term conditions in order to reduce home and employment spending and contribute to an increase in investments for the future economic structure. How important it is to follow the result of working to reduce the debt of the state and thus strengthen his position! Let's go back to the decrease in home debt. It was put in a conventional policy process when the government took over the administrations. 18 months later, 57 of you. home had a decrease in the head chair of the housing bar and 34 of you. individuals applied for their special savings and can use either this save without tax payment to subsidize the privatized housing bar or save for apartment purchases. Homes that no longer had the post office bar but were entitled to a reduction received a special personal discount that would last for the next four years. Together, these two pathways were active, the fall of debt and the most special savings, the economy of which they weigh each other. As the provision capacity for the households increases, the private savings that a diamond counters will work. Thus, homes have fallen rapidly, faster than our neighboring countries, and are now comparable to what they were in 2004. Are we fulfilling these goals? Yes, my fellow Americans. Reaching the state's budget and performing a debt correction when the first part of the season is truly measurable, successful in meeting promises and related goals. Much work was already under way at the beginning of a chosen period in identifying the financial problems facing the nation because of the unique conditions created in falling financial systems in the wake of the economic collapse. Tremendous good work and good work have now been published in the form of a well - thought - out programme for emissions of capital resources, all of which unite to work hard to achieve their country and nation's welfare. The release of lost financial companies without negative effects on the payment of the population is the most important solution right now. The plan has received a very positive report, both from the country and from abroad. An example of the credibility of the strategy is a recent increase in Iceland's credit rates. My fellow Americans. During this massive operation, the most important thing is to eliminate risks, protect the stability and economic well - being of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u12	A respectable president. The Matrix. Dearest nation. I've been thinking about how when things work out for us when things work out, when things work out, when things work out, if things go wrong, if things go wrong, if things go wrong, we don't go up, we look for the guilty, teach outside situations. In other words, we do not want to examine ourselves. This trend is particularly prominent among politicians. Perhaps that is because we have to convince people more about our excellence, justify our existence, and then we may be very tempted to take on everything that is right and to blame others for our mistakes. I often think about this when I hear some government officials and ministers say that there were some marvelous water divorces in the 2013 elections, as if we were in a deep crisis and economic growth had simply stopped if the Independence Party and the forward party hadn't been like a rescuer. Of course, that is not the case, the economic situation is explained by countless factors, and on many of these, we do not have any influence on politicians. It's not like the highest. A seafaring minister goes to the middle of a helicopter, pushing the mackerel into Icelandic jurisdiction. The monster will come as he pleases, and he can go back. The same is true of tourists, although we may have a little more influence on the tourist stream. We are affected by growing levels and positions in major business countries; the global price for oil, for example, has caused it or is among the factors causing Iceland's inflation to be very low. The government has thanked themselves for this low level of inflation, but who is to blame when inflation rises? I can't wait to hear that explanation when it comes to it. I think politics is another characteristic of it. It is tempting to paint strong colors, whether black or white, good or bad. Political people are supposed to have clear and strong opinions, speak bluntly, and I understand in a sense that requirement, but I often feel that there are so many aspects of things, and sometimes I am half - serious about how much I agree with some things and some things against others. I'd like to state, however, that I was totally against the debt crisis, and I was very much opposed to leaving the EU accessories and thanking gods for repeated attempts at the highest level. Secretary of state has failed to produce the desired results. I've come to the opinion that after two years at council, it really mattered which sort of policy they have, and the nation decides in elections how far they want to go either left or right and which policy they want to see, but I think it's equally important that we choose people who will be rich who will show humility toward the job, people who understand the importance of looking across party lines, people who don't consider politics to be a war. There's a lot of people like that at the council. I can honestly say that if I could choose in a personal term, people from all categories would be on my list. In the bright future, we want to work hard not to fall into various categories but to show respect for our colleagues. We're trying to make a good contribution. I just have to admit, it's a challenge and a lot harder than I thought. In fact, I have been sitting in the back of the class and climbing, wearing front calls when I did not like what a speaker said. I'm here to apologize and I'm going to take my party from a bright future, okay? paritaprevir The word, Eldar's Ástþórsson, is of love, but earlier today, he suggested here in the Hall that we no longer give away any products that do not bring back. I'm going to stop worrying about the chaos that prevails at the Council. I feel that the Senate business is always agitating, we seem to have no intention of planning one thing or anything in the future, and we're supposed to be the highest organization in the country. I think it's unacceptable, and this is what we have to change. Then the diplomats must examine themselves. Case reporting at the highest. The minister of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, here before, gives me a little hope. We simply owe the nation that at this workplace there is a measure of peace. In fact, the goal should be that the Allied would be least in the media. It would be a sign that everything was going well, that there was peace of work here. You see, it's the conflict that finds news.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u13	Dear President. A dear nation. This year has been a special, difficult, conflict - torn year, and very inaccessible. I must admit that my frustration with the government and the government in Iceland is deep. I'm not the only one who's disappointed. The nation's frustrations have been reflected in one poll after another. We live in historical times because the distrust between the nation and us who work here at the General Assembly is vast. I think of it as a matter of thought that we senators must take us home when a council closes in the days ahead. Then we must return in the fall, hopefully feeling refreshed and fully confirmed, to heal a breach between a nation and a council. We can do this by cultivating the values of words and deeds that the nation came together in 2010 when a new constitution was discussed, which was equal, democracy, honesty, human rights, justice, and responsibility. These values have not been major during the current council. The community calls for changes in priorities, for honest management, for responsibilities and maintenance, for equality and justice, for increased access to democratic decisions. Indeed, the irresponsible behavior and authority of many ministers of this government have not added to the public's belief that political rulers could be trusted. It is not a matter of learning from failure but of failings that do not seem to escape, and it seems to be unrewarded. It may be said that the decision to shun the council itself began to be greatly avoided by a foreign minister and sent a letter to Brussels, which was to mark the end of a conversation with the European Union, although it was promised for elections that this decision would be made. It can be at the top. As noted in his speech, prime minister is not concerned about the threat that could result if Pirats remembered the changes that are actually in harmony with the results of 2010. As a community, we also need to act on basic system changes guided by the values of our nation meeting. For this to be possible, we need to know what journey we are as a nation. In what community do we want to live 50 years? No one knows this, but in progressive discussions with others, we can find a way to the goal. You can see that there are no fundamental changes except in cooperation with you, the nation. Pirats realize that we are nothing without you and that our sincere policy is that you, my dear Iceland, advise that you do more than vote for council members, that you will be given the opportunity to take part in the molding of your future country in cooperation with others. We senators must make good use of the time here at Congress to make sure that their priority will be in the welfare business and that the health systems will be adjusted in the next two years. You see, there are far too many Icelanders who are not good and who have had chronic want. We're supposed to fix what you hear, as well as all the violations of human rights, which are like a plain, cloudy river flowing into our mailboxes, and we have no right to ignore. I'd like to end up studying the basic Pirate policy that all of our decisions at the General are linked to, without exception. Piranha stresses critical thinking and well - informed decisions. This means that Pirats cross their course in the light of data and knowledge gained regardless of whether a proposal might at first be desirable or not. Pirata's view of ideas is independent of who their spokesmen are. Pirat's previous decisions always have to be able to get revised. The right individuals to look for light should never be restricted. Pirates do their part in promoting civil rights and protecting them. Civil rights expansion should be aimed at strengthening other rights. The current rights need to be protected and not restricted. Pirates believe that civil rights belong to individuals and that the rights of each person are strong. The privacy of privacy is about the protection of the power memory from the abuse of the more powerful. Pirates believe that all individuals have the right to privacy in their private lives. For immunity there is a right to remain secret, anonymity, and self-sponsored rights. It is never to exceed the need to protect the individual, but it is never to the point that it affects other individuals. Anonymity does not have the purpose of shooting a person off responsibility. A counterclockwise is about opening the power more closely to the control of the power memory. Piranians believe that transparency plays an important role in the illuminating of the public and thus qualifying for democratic decision making. Information should be available to the public. Information should be available in the open data format, in the form most appropriate to use. For a person to be responsible, he must have the ability to make decisions. Pirates believe that everyone has an uncircumcised right to make decisions of his own matters and the right to know how such decisions have been made. Limitation of people's freedom to collect and share information is unacceptable, except for the protection of civil rights. A person's freedom to express himself is unacceptable, except for the protection of civil rights. Pirates believe that everyone has the right to make decisions on matters that concern them. Court is guaranteed by the strength of the direct democracy and the growth of metallurgy government. Pirates believe that the central control of power needs to be reduced in all areas and that democracy has to be developed directly in the models offered. At the very end, I want to express my satisfaction over what tonight's talks have been determined by the sincere will, I hope, to increase and promote civil rights and the approach of the public to the decision-making and funding of democracy. I hope that action follows those words. - Good times and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u14	President. Good citizens of the country. It has been the traditional politics, i.e. The Constitution can be revised by political committees and Generals. That is why, at the General Assembly of June 2010, the project was agreed to be completed, if you don't mind me saying so. A administrative committee, held a national meeting, and a board of administration proposed a new constitution. A foreign scholar called this a democratic experiment to my ears not long ago. During the last term, the smells of the Constitution did not seem to please many of us. Many of us were dogs and disgruntled, but entering political community is of little benefit in striking doors, and staying in the dark is of no benefit at all. If you have a view, it is most successful to collect your weapons and wait for the opportunity to promote and carry out your interests. Since the fall of 2013, a board of directors of the United States has been appointed by members of the General Assembly. This is not the first constitution board of its kind. From a republicary institution, four Constitutional committees have worked. However, the Constitution remains the main source of approval in 1944, and it is attributable to the Danish constitution of 1849. Four issues have been placed on the committee's program since the fall of 2013. It is a law of national law, of national ownership of natural resources, of environmental protection regulations and of the implementation of authority to the international institutions. The next few weeks will reveal whether an agreement is next to the committee. In that case, it is reasonable to assume that the coming fall will be assigned to the council a bill that can be paid nationally while the election is in the summer of 2016. A provision from the Constitution adopted here in the spring of 2013 enables us to do this. It has been observed in the case of members of Congress earlier this evening that hopes are legalized by the right to request national fees can become a prerequisite for creating both a moody controversies in the council and for having a more or less moody relationship. This certainly is not unnecessary. Note, however, that the Constitution committee is considering only four aspects of the Constitution, which are in all 81 articles. How important these are, and all of them are new! The Council's constitution was 114 articles. Thus, the current board of directors is not revising the Constitution, not to the very least, but to discuss these four requirements. Many amateurs of the Constitution fear that if they change it in the middle of an elected period, the shift will be sufficient and push another one aside, since it can hardly be referred to as a review of four regulations, though it takes a long two years. Therefore, when we begin the second part of the term, it is necessary that the parties now recognize their position on the review of the Constitution. What is her view of human rights? Is it not necessary to revise him after 20 years, as is the case's progress? Is it not necessary to establish the right to information in the constitution? And is it not necessary for the Constitution to bind the freedom of the media, as influential as they are in today's society? Are we happy with the votes in the country? Do we rightly believe that those living north of the Havenavors have more than double vote - right to those living south of them? The European Security and Cooperation Agency, which includes promoting human rights and democracy, makes comments to the national election system. The Security and Cooperation Organization says that the votes of everyone should be balanced and that the difference cannot be greater than 10%. Here he goes up to 250 percent. The Council of Justice made proposals to promote the power of the council at the expense of the European Commission. This proposal was followed by a report by the General Assembly Commission, who, unfortunately, criticized much of the Ministership in this country, the Ministership of Ministers, which is still at the mercy of the people, and even in full confidence of this loss. I'll just mention the fishing affair, the letter to the European Union, and the transport of the Department of Information from the Ministry of Education to meet the interests of the prime minister. At work during the last term, there is a big investment. In the pursuit of this work, we have a lot of treasure. We're not just supposed to use that treasure, we're obliged to do it. There must not be any need to work on four new constitutions, allowing a review of the entire Constitution to be lost and put aside. If the regulations in a constitution are a tree, the Constitution is all the wood. I say, most respectable president, we must see the forest for the trees. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u15	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. It happened as I feared, that the time of my speech would be cut off. But I'm not in the mood for it, it was a good lecture for my partymen. I need to give my talk, which, of course, was to be a milestone and save it for a better time than because I'm self - centered, like most of us here, I'm just going to talk about ourselves. I've long wondered why our country's belief in us is decreasing each year. I have concluded that it's not because we've been misdirected, not because we didn't care for the nation's interests. This is where the entire financial system collapsed seven years ago. How have we been able to cope? It was not a bad politicians who worked through it. Geir Haardes' government laid the foundation of emergency law and did a great job. The Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government was only successful in many ways too. I would have wanted to do things differently, and everyone is mistaken, but it worked well, and Sigurðardóttir's daughter's government finished what was originally put on top of the financial system and deserves to be commended for it. The present government has done a great job, too, just great. This has been a tremendous rise, good decisions have been made, and followed by careful management. Great job. Still, faith always diminishes. Why does this happen? Could it be only by the way we do things here? I have no objection to political conflicts. I think there's supposed to be a fight. But we have to know how to get into this fight. Ideas are important and how we work. It's all important. We have to do better in that. I've been rather unhappy these last few weeks. I think the government has held us a little hostage, new words, such as that the majority of government was just out - of - date, and also Congress. The government situation is close to the government as much as the government would then be allowed to control as much, but it's not going to work this way and it's not supposed to. Even the same people say, " There are more national requirements here. ' What is the source of the memory of the part in the decision of a national law? Zero. However, we are to talk, and we should listen. Many good things come out of the conversation and much that we pick up, the government from the government. We will continue to do so, but we must improve ourselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u16	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Our most important role here at a council, the most important part of all political people, is to listen. And it is not enough to accept just the requirement to listen every four years when the election's pay comes up. But it can be difficult to listen when all that is heard from outside is silence. During the last few weeks and months, incredible energy has been released in Iceland. This energy is about exasperating silence, shedding light on social ills, shouting on a more just and better society. Of course, here I refer to the women's revolution, which has various names, a social wave that began to appear on the Twitter under the heading #Freee TheNipple, and has adopted various forms, a revolution that is largely exposed to young women. Although the person standing here lives all the way south of Europe, the force in #FreeTheNipple did not find out when the wave rose. I was shocked. I had not previously realized what horror porn, one form of sexual electronic violence, is a major part of the life of young women, how many had experienced it in their own skins, and how many have lived in constant fear that their sensitive images were shared with anyone, at any time, anywhere - and without their consent. I was shocked that even though I knew of the problem, I had not realized how widespread and how serious this problem was. But at the same time, I was filled with great hope and tremendous pride when I saw thousands of young women standing together, all alone, standing firm for and without fear. President. We can all be proud of them. # Three TheNipple wave followed so many other spontaneous revolutions against the silence. The latest may be the strongest, and women were encouraged to share their violence experience with a group of other women on Facebook. Later, when stories and pictures flowed everywhere, the talk came to us. The victims of violence marked themselves with orange faces and yellow faces became a symbol of all those who know the victims of violence, all of us. The orange faces were incredibly many, so many of them made me feel like disasters. However, during a natural disaster, the government would not have acted, organized mass relief centers, shrugged up the sleeves, and set matters straight. They simply fix what is to be fixed. What, though, was the response when the wall of silence broke? They were small, and at least not in any way consistent with the size of the problem. Good citizens of the country. All of us know victims of violence, and all of us know doers. In this respect, the reaction to the women's revolution will always be different from natural disasters. You see, it is not enough for us to get public security to bring up a mass relief center and to plan for victims of violence, such as after a big earthquake. Although the signature of the latest wave was # quiet and # women's number, in the long run, it would be an inadequate reaction to be content to help victims of violence open up for the experience. It's not enough just to let them talk. Also, we need to be careful about the other side, which is probably the most difficult part, when we listen, we need to face the recipients. When Icelanders experience tragedy, they react. We are fortunate to have built wood to cope with most of the things that nature makes us feel. When it comes to building after an earthquake or a glacier, it is seldom asked about price signals, but why is psychological services rigid from fists to enduring sexual abuse? In the discussion that regularly shows that police electronics never seem to be the same as when talking about cases involving major sexual crime departments. What seats? We have spent billions of dollars defending against avalanches, but what amount has been spent to instruct police officers and judges about the nature and treatment of sexual abuses? Why is increasing the number of female judges not taking the lead? Where are the reserves and the ancient struggles that should be ongoing? Where are the studies on the scope and national impact of violence, studies on why so many women in our good society have suffered rape, sexual abuse, and harassment? Now we all need to listen; the government, the council, and the nation. And we need to respond. We have to meet the demands of the revolution. Let's just hang out with our girls. They - and the boys - deserve it. All of you out there, thank you for the revolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u17	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. A team of council members has been extremely active. Men have succeeded in a church hall, usually in a respectful and respectful manner, but it still burns in the fact that all evil things are being done here. The Senate's view is not good, and such behavior does not improve. There is absolutely no place for brutal expressions and personal attacks in the Assembly Hall. This is what we have to change, and this we can change. The social talk can also help. During the days, I read a fine article on the back page of the News magazine, by Jón Sigurður Eyjólfsson. The headline of this article is ▪ It's not Iceland It's a beautiful place to be The journalist makes Iceland's image his subject, how Iceland appears to people abroad who only experience the country via the Internet. There our beloved country's presentation is very negative, but the reporter describes his experience when he comes to the country and is in close proximity to land and country. Then he will experience joy and kindness. The final words of this article are: There's nothing to mark this stupid Internet. That's exactly what I'm talking about. You see, living in Iceland is good. We here choose to live on the island green. We can live anywhere, in a place where the weather is better, where growth is lower, produce less expensive, and the human life more varied. But we choose to live here. In fact, the weather might be better. Instead, it should be lower. We really need to work on repairing our housing system, and it would be unthinkable that consumer loans would not be rewarded. But we must not forget to thank for what we have and for what we do well, for our gratitude is underestimated. However, the vision alone does not solve the projects. We need to keep our minds fixed on their deliverance. The government of Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnul, first proposed that a debted home be met and a ten - team plan was set up in the summer of 2013. One of the ten measures was to correct the mutant housing loans. The correction was a fair, judicial procedure that the nation personally chose for the 2013 election. Good Icelanders. The storm clouds across the country are rapidly evaporating. The land is now more accessible to the sun than in any other pagan sky. One of these rays is the execution program. The general pleasure of the State with the plan. The actions are essential for the removal of capital and financial resources that result from stability or taxation to pay off the debt of state to all of us. The structure of the health system is another major project that the government has placed upon us. Government contributions to the Land Hospital have never been higher, and annual funds to buy at the Land Hospital have been five times as high since 2012. The contribution to other health care institutions has also been increased. The church has begun. A review of the social security system is in place and is well along. The cost of inflation has been little or none for a long time, and the level of wages is now higher than ever. According to a recent report of the Strategies Watch, Iceland has now reached the third largest level in income exchange and the smallest poverty among the nations of OECD. Let's keep that in mind. My fellow Americans. Despite all political kamp, I think we can all agree that the government's success is only pretty good when you look at the bigger picture. In spite of good conditions, though, we are expected to press forward with even greater force to create a more just society and to do so without weakening our motivation to work and create new values. One heavy cloud, though, still hovers over our heads. Changes in the housing system, for example, have become very urgent. Our goal is to ensure that everyone's chances of living in security and ensuring equal resources in access to apartment loans regardless of their home location. Unfortunately, the bills that have been done at the Ministry of Health for the past two years failed, but I assume that the originals and their products will appear to us right away on autumn days. Good things happen slowly, but the will is indeed there. Another task that has become urgent is decommissioned insurance. In line with the Treaty, an expert committee on the removal of bail on consumer loans has concluded, and the government has agreed that it will be undertaken on that basis. Good Icelanders. Since the new government of Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, economic growth in Iceland has been one of the greatest in Europe. The state has stopped collecting debts that create opportunities for further investments in society's interiors. Let us wait on solar radiation, cultivate the good inside of us, and send loving thoughts into the universe. It comes in a higher quality of life and a better society for all of us. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u18	A respectable president. Dearest fellows of the country. Now that this assembly has reached its end, we do well to ask ourselves: " Have we walked for the good? As we have heard tonight's appearance seems different, but I allow myself to assert that this winter was characterized by turmoil, both here at the Council as well as elsewhere in the community. It's no wonder, everyone's got a dog on the line. This week I met an old man walking around the Assembly Hall and was considered to be a member of Congress. As a man often hears, he felt the pressure at the General Assembly, and then he said that we would just need, by permission of a president, to behave as men would. This caught my attention. What does it mean in this context to act like one? We all feel that it is in the eye, but it may not be as simple as it seems. During the days, I mentioned it in a talk here that I had enjoyed the summer in a bear forest near Breiðland. There, although I did not understand birds'language, I found joy in the singing of birds that had a good effect on me. The birds gave me the tone without being aware of it. It made me think of the Generals, of all kinds of people. We discuss important matters, the General is a seminar, and this seminar is even very prominent. It is broadcast, and the main media is very attentive. In this way, a discussion at a council will be sent out to the community. It is not just what we are discussing that matters but how we do it. Congress is a service job. It's up to us to work on the public interest, not on our own interest, and not just our voters or our district, but on all Icelanders, including those who are unborn today. When we consider the future, it is not just because of economic conditions, it is also about human rights, about the environment, and about the righteous divide of wealth and opportunities. It's a big responsibility. When we started our category, we named it a bright future to remind us of this responsibility, and it does not work. Today, the big picture can be lost as well as in today's Parliamentary work and the battle on matters. A general body is a power agency, both directly and indirectly. A general assembly was established at different times than the states of the world today, before transportation, communication routes, and education became as accessible and as common as it has become today. Many customs and customs in our work give evidence of how people put power in other situations. But the nature of power has changed with changing times. The requirement for greater consultation and participation in the public power is loud everywhere in society and perfectly normal. The General must answer this call. There will be continuing to be a review of the Constitutions and the development of the Parliamentary forces and practices at the General Assembly. Some years ago, I was on a work trip in London, and after a long morning at a book store, I took my colleagues to a restaurant for dinner. At the table next to us, a guy sat down. He was dressed in some kind of military uniform, full of medals, and with a distorted mustache, a foxy call, and a dog's face. We spoke, and it came about that the 96 - year - old man had been fighting in the trenches on the western front during World War I. He was on his way to the Assembly Hall to participate in a memorial service. He told us that this certainly had been a terrible experience, but he was lucky, that the officer who was over him stood for dance rehearsals on holidays. I can still see them, uniformed in uniforms calling in an ornamented coat to dance in underground bunkers while bombs flew over. The man said that the main thing about dancing is that the attention is always on his partner, that dancing would never be good unless the dance partner was allowed to shine. A successful dance would be a cooperation project, and this lesson would have benefited him better than anything in his long life. I think this lesson applies here at the General Assembly. In other words, a financial conflict in politics, which, yes, is our part, is a type of dance, and it really matters how we dance. Often, I feel that we are doing well. During those last years, many issues have been overcome, but many issues have also existed. The person standing here is not as pleased with all these matters as he seems to be with whom. The outcome of these cases has particularly been the way things have been worked out and prepared, the way the conversation between classes, governments, and government positions has been conducted, i.e. how the political dance has been accomplished. We need courage, not to use power and turn down our opponents, to be courageous in dancing well and working on the results most people can accept. Above all, though, we need courage to make dancing a matter of public interest and the future. We're not just supposed to dance around the golden calf, we're supposed to dance about our respect, our joy and our love. Finally, I'd like to thank the President and the Generals for the winter. I would also especially like to thank the staff of the General for their excellent work and especially for your patience at this amazing summer council in the last few weeks. - Good times, good trip, good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-01-143.u19	My fellow Americans. There has been a perfect storm for the rise of Pirata in recent years. The last few months have not been a great blow from the right or left, that has been strong in the north. The political debate has become a focus of power, corruption, and dishonesty. So the demand has increased as a result of transparency and direct democracy. It has increased since the approval of the representatives and the greater success of the citizens of the country in making decisions on what matters. With the north side of the sails, Piratars have risen rapidly and repeated the largest category in the country. We believe these figures reflect the willingness of the people to change, not people, but the national government, the government of Iceland. At the 2009 National Conference, 1,231 random people met to gather ideas and suggestions for the community that Iceland wants to see grow and thrive in the years to come. Of the 30 you. The suggestions and ideas observed were the most important value in the minds of the people of the land. Afterward came respect, justice, and equality. The meeting also provided a vision of each level, and it had become part of society, education, health services, and resources. At the 2010 national meeting, 950 back-to-back members of the country met to discuss the values that should be proposed for a new constitution and discuss the contents of the constitution from them. Much was called for active and direct democracy, greater distribution of power, and increased control by rulers. It was not surprising, then, that the greater part of the country said that in the 2012 National Remuneration Act wanted to establish a new constitution on the proposals of a constitution that contributed much to the National Conference's proposals. The values and prospects of the people of the land are humanitarian, righteous, and practitional. Pirat's basic policy is that the people of the land can make this vision a reality. Values such as increased transparency and direct democracy, now rising to the surface in Iceland and in many parts of the world, are the baseline values of Pirata. Piranians, like other movements that rise up to the north of the politics today, come out of these values and are being driven by the subjugated new priorities that have taken place as a result of the information technology revolution, because of community media, because of the Internet. For a short time, this north storm will calm down and bring Pirata down. But just as the weather on earth is changing, the climate around the world is changing, and in the long run, that change will lift those who, just as the Pirats work to protect and strengthen new priorities for people's values. Before the turn of the century, Peter Drucker, father of modern government, pointed out that all the major technological revolutions in the last 500 years have launched the economic, social, and political system - in this order. He said that without a doubt the true revolutionary effect of this information technology revolution would very soon appear to us and lead to a new vast industry. Then Facebook explodes on the Internet, and a new industrial community media opens the door to what U.S. President Zbigniew Brzezinski called in an article in the New York Times 2008 political awareness of the world. He points out that for the first time in human history, nearly all mankind became politically conscious and in political relations with one another. This is a revolution in the world's political environment. People who participate in the community and community media have much more hope for the benefits of access to information and for the greater participation in decision-making issues they have. These values are higher in today's world's priorities, but they were at the beginning of the century when the dominant political power and media were, in effect, monopolized the communication and interpretation of news reports. The same thing happened during the last information development revolution when Gutenberg's Gutenberg press caused people to get an information report, then priests and princes. In those days, however, it took much more time, more money, and more lives for this new printing technology to move from driving the economy into disintegration of society and politics. When the demand is only a short - term storm, the dominant forces can wait for it. But when these changes are made because of basic changes, fundamental changes in people's values, those who stubbornly refuse to allow these values to come to an end by sinking themselves.
