ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1173, about Harpa's business, music and conference house, from Blöndalur H. Bölegal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u2	The president wants to say that the 2nd session, a special discussion, will be postponed for one hour, until the hour. 16.30.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u3	A respectable president. Yesterday and today, we have been informed of the consequences of strike action on various institutions of the land and the community as a whole. Yesterday, midwives reported that during the fifth week, the government had shown no effort to meet their demands, and this group is left with their companions and other groups in BHM operations without being talked to for days. This gives me a lot of anxiety, and I feel that the situation in the chicken business today is going to be a lot of trouble, and I don't think people are showing any top priority in meeting these groups and fixing the situation. The government is not just a direct audience like BHM e.g. Rather, the State can meet them in so many ways as well as improve their standard of living by passive action. For example, BHM requires a reduction in the rate of student loans. There is also a requirement that a roof above the head be less expensive, and the standard of living can be improved in so many other ways. It is called after such measures together with an increase in pay. Now there are three weeks left to respond to those demands, but there is no such thing on the tables. So I want to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he and the government are not interested in responding to the demands of indirect action to improve the quality of life among these groups, and we can use the time until the end of the council to complete such cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u4	President. I'll share my concerns with you. Senator on situation. It's a big deal, both in public markets and in public discussions with the state, unfortunately, there's been a slight fog, and there's been some debates that haven't been able to communicate. We've had this conversation before in this council hall, and it's been very much between us. Of course, the government has been prepared to discuss various aspects of this work, including taking public action to meet the demands and expectations that exist, and we have had many such meetings. The last time I had a meeting like that today, there's a big misunderstanding if you think the government ministers sit by and just wait and hope, that's so far away. On the other hand, we are united with the big question of how we can bring in the country's earners the real rewards that will last. Our emphasis has been that while fixing new agreements, the inflation will be controlled, thus supporting further growth in cost. During the past 12 months, Iceland had one of the largest figures ever measured in Europe. This was based on the loss of inflation to about 1% and has been there for the past few months. That is an enormous foundation for building on which I will continue to be optimistic about the solutions we can develop and find in this negotiation, both the state that directs to the discussion and the state as a part of our team in supporting the stability and peace of the work market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u5	A respectable president. In such a situation today, we must be concerned that the government will not bring any action that will allow these groups to be elected in some way. We're burning in on time here at the Council. We have about three weeks left at this council, and we are running a little short of time, and here nothing comes in, so there's no evidence that the government is going to produce anything that can improve the terms of these groups by means of indirect action. A respectable president. I also worry about the acquiescing and holiness of the government and its managers that there are always those with the lowest incomes and those lower intermediate incomes that need responsibility to control inflation, when men certainly do not expect those who earn the highest income. These sounds will not be heard when their salary is increased. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Those with the lowest pay will call for life savings because they will need them if they are to survive in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u6	A respectable president. That was a good time. A senator who was finishing his speech, which was right in this chair and demanded that the doctors be negotiated by tens of percent in raises. At that time, I had little effort to come here and point out that the average knowledge experts were 1,350 you. K., because of what. A senator insisted that negotiations be immediately agreed on the basis of the demands they ordered; otherwise, it would be completely intolerable. The problem was not that the government wanted to hold fast to what was originally offered and to test how long doctors would last in a strike. The problem was that we were losing all the operating rooms in the country when we were closed. We could have almost shut down the Land Hospital for major measures. That's what we stood before them. I totally refer to the Fatherhouses that the government opposes the increase in the lowest wage. We are going to continue the course set last year, so that the wealth of the lowest paid people grows rapidly. [[The president calls.]] That is what happened last year, and we should continue on that course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u7	Mr. President. As noted in the news, some 200 patients have been diagnosed with hepatitis and are only available for medicinal products that are considered out - of - date in both Europe and the United States. True, they are much less expensive at shopping, but side effects are much less effective. It was also noted that part of this group is very sick and cannot really wait. Hepatitis C is now one of the most common liver disorders in the Western world, and one of the most common causes of cirrhosis and liver failure and the most common cause of liver transplantation. Sigurussson, director of Sigurður Ólafsson and specialists, observed that he feels utterly unacceptable that people with hepatitis C are not receiving the available medication and that they have no parallel in neighboring lands. It is now time to reject the application for the hospital drugs, i.e. so-called S-labelled medicinal products, on the basis that there is no longer room for that on the budget of the year. This is the situation, despite the fact that Iceland is already a copy of the neighboring nations, which is primarily characterised by the fact that seriously ill patients in this country do not have the same treatment plan as those patients of other nations and, unfortunately, have not done for a few years. It's certainly that way, which was shown at a meeting of the budget committee this morning when the Department of Health came to visit that S-marked medicinal products will be within financial frames because no new drug was taken in. This means that kidney patients, people with hepatitis, or with cancer will not receive new medicines that might otherwise be available to them. Now I'm talking about medicines that have been used in other parts of the North and the United Kingdom, not drugs that we're first testing. In view of the discussion this weekend, and our total number. Minister of the State Department that we had before the weekend I'd like to ask the Minister if he is still convinced that the S-marked drug has been stabilised, or whether he agrees with the one I quoted and believes that new drugs have to be introduced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u8	President. It is not the financial minister's table to decide what medications are on the shopping list as S-labelled medicinal products, but it is probably to be aware that hospital management has long been a problem for the S-labelled medicinal products. Here's what it says. A senator that will keep funding this year because no new drug will be taken. Then I say, No, they shall keep the sum of money this year concerning this people, because they shall keep the sum of money every year concerning such ones. That's why. If you're asking me if I want to get better medicine for those who have hepatitis C, I'll say: Yes, I really want to get the best medicine for those patients and other patients who need more expensive drugs, we need to fix them as best at the same time as we keep a plan in the state budget. Fortunately, in recent years we have been able to make contributions to the Land Hospital and we have been able to keep up with the increase of the costs of S-marked drugs, despite the fact that we have had a big budget problem shutting down. I guess this year we're in over 3 billion more than what ran into the Land Hospital when we took over in 2013, and there's the S-labelled medicines. It's a complicated group of subjects. It is not simple to take a single medicine and say: This is the medicine we need now and the one medicine at a time, but it must be taken with expertise to evaluate the level of which burns. Sadly, we face the same issue as other nations: We cannot buy all the most recent, most expensive drugs on all possible diseases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. The reason I decided to ask him is that the money is under the Ministry of Economics, the Department of Health wants funds, the health insurance requests for money, and that is the financial agency that eventually gives the green light. Clearly, patients' lives can be extended, we know, by offering a new drug. The reason I'm asking the highest question. The secretary of finance is that we had a conversation about the financial program he proposed. The minister thought that the S-labelled medicinal products were in steady state and did not exactly feel the need, for the next few years he proposed a plan, increased funding for this team. I don't agree with that. That's why I'm asking the highest. Ministers, for this also depends on him, not just health ministers. That's why I think it matters to me which way to go. Minister wants to go, what method he wants to use. Does he think that this team needs to be funded? I realize that if we don't do something to stop it, he'll grow us over his head, and I'll also realize that we can't take advantage of all the drugs. [[The president calls.]] But we have not adopted new drugs for very long because of our financial situation, and it is obviously time for us to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u10	Mr. President. In the discourse that followed. A senator refers to it, I said that we had reached the cost of the S-marker medication and I didn't think the cost was underestimated. It had been a special problem that we have always exceeded the estimated costs, e.g. when a pack of whales is present. The senator was in the government, we were always able to proceed with the S-labelled drugs at actual costs compared to what the council had delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u11	It's been nine months.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u12	It is the managers of the Hospital and those responsible for this category, especially the hospital drugs, to set priorities in these matters. It's a professional solution. You can't just sort drugs into a list like that. That's not true at all. A senator says that this is in some way a financial minister's case. The funds are taken care of by the council. I have to say, just as it is, when men come here and encourage organizations to get over their budgets, I feel a little sad. [[The president calls.]] I'm just sure, with the strength of the Ministers, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u13	I didn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u14	That's what I'm talking about. A senator is saying. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator asks if I will give my blessing that people do better than the law. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] because some medicines are missing. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u15	Wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u16	The president would like to ask members of Congress to stick to the platform when asking questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u17	A respectable president. It's safe to say that mackerel bill rules. High officials of the sea do not do much good to the nation. Less than 30 up. a man has already signed a challenge to the President of Iceland to refer to the case in a national law. A bright future is totally against the ultimate. A minister proposes in the bill where few sources are given the hunting rights they can sell the next day on the open market. A respectable president. Why should the State give away something of value in this way? It may be necessary to move the mackerel to a catchmark and perhaps it would have been sooner, but how much. A minister decides to do so is unbelievable. It is as if the government had learned nothing from recent experiences. What is the main control of fishing in Iceland? He is that the article is not acceptable. It is not acceptable because governments have been passing through this exact form of greeting, a greeting that can be sold the next day, and a ◯ box to be sold out. It's amazing that the government is still planning another trip to stick to that arrangement. Of course, people are crazy about it. In the bright future, we have said, let's race the market. Let's have mackerelvota at a dinner party and let the deportations compete for the source on a competitive basis. That's how we get the right price for the warrants. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, already less than 30 measures. a man has signed this challenge to the President of Iceland, whether or not he has not changed his mind, and has not considered marketing solutions to macrovota when writing this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u18	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that going this way is against a bright future. Then it would be interesting in itself to hear what a bright future would want to do with the opinion of an Allellian agent from last year, who said that from 2011 it was obliged to share mackerel in accordance with the law of Iceland. According to that law, the government would have had the right to set up a Regulation without the presence of the council and to place the mackerel with the backing of an agent of the General Assembly. We thought that way was impossible, including with many uncertainty around the macrolide. Of course, it is a new stock here, has not been shared, has not been paid, and has not been sold. He's on his way through the jurisdiction. Will he be here in larger amounts or less? Now the ocean's colder than last year. Does that mean he's not coming this year? What does it want? A senator bids for such a dinner when she has no idea whether the mackerel will come or go? Counts 'em out. A senator that would pay a great deal of money to the nation? They have gone into business with the State on the basis of their failure to share with the last government, as the law expected. If you feel that it was and that it is so valuable in the mackerel, why should you do so? A senator may answer, though she or her class have certainly not been in a government at that time - did not the present government and take all the money they say is now in the building phase that we really needed in 2010 and 2011? Well, maybe. A senator's answer? [[The president calls.]] Because we need the answer to whether people will obey the law of the land or whether they will do anything else. [[Up front.]] And then what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u19	A respectable president. Actually, I'm the one who's in the role of lead starter instead of the highest. A minister so I'll have to take care of the questions. V.E.G. A minister has talked about the opinion of the emissary of the Generals. That's fine, but it's not a court, that's for sure. If a minister believes that the resource is owned by the nation, the minister should test it in court. I think it would be most successful. So far, no problem has been made. Throughout history, ministers have shared in settlements and in all sorts of hibernations, and so far no case has fallen that way, not even being fought, that the state could not do to them as it seemed. It's just that way. So I don't understand why. There's something a minister can't do about it. [[The president calls.]] I just keep encouraging him. And I ask again because he did not answer my question: Has he not considered moving some part of the year into an auction arrangement? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u20	A respectable president. I've heard it in a council hall at different times. Councilmen believe that it is now important for the European Commission to comply with the opinions made by an agent and in this case, it may be appropriate to ask questions. A senator whether an agent should not enjoy the doubt at least. Here, too, it was critical that I asked why. A senator's question. You see, it's so easy to be opposed if you don't suggest anything else. It says, "Why not auction? " In my opening talk, I made it very clear that the nations that have taken the auction route, if not all, have fallen away. because of its serious effects. It forces the whole structure into one, two places, or three, and the present government wants to provide a wide variety of waterways around the country. That's why I think it's a fair question to ask a party of Bjarts the future: Are you the members of the council, boy? Senator, not ready to be inhabited here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to pick up the thread from a special discussion last week on national equal access to the Internet. We piranha, we have a synopsis of the material now in the environment and transport committee, and we have been a little reluctant to touch it there, but we are doing our best to see if there is no surface on that matter, especially in view of the fact that we have just reached a light - related work group from the local Minister. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson went before that group. This is a very good report and strategy to ensure that the infrastructure itself provides the network services. At the same time, there is something very good that is shown in the report, the first team of access to high - speed replacement connections will be the basic services available to all the people of the country regardless of their home country. The basic service point is very important, but it's mostly independent of the population. I don't see anything else in the report that's coming to ensure what's called the online space which is the accelerator we pirantics have taken, which means that once you have this base up and the speed that's supposed to be 100 megabytes per second 2020, you can't limit the speed of the telecommunications companies on other grounds. The court must be loyal. This is what our synopsis proposal aims to make, and it says in the review of the Post and Communications Office that there is every reason to resort to a means of preventing these factors and that the General Assembly should consider the lack of communication in these materials. It's really good what's going on, the job's started, and it's starting to call it a basic service, and it's going that way. I would have wanted to support this work, since the council concluded that it would guarantee this legal position, the lack of network. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the secretary if he sees anything that disturbs or even supports the work that our joint work guarantees this interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u22	A respectable president. It is very important from this discussion last week that there was a general harmony in the Senate about the importance of completing communication network development as well as that here we are talking about basic services just the same as we are talking about roads we drive around the country. It's a very important conclusion, which, in my opinion, is common to members of the council here. And that is now being done by the government on the basis of this report. A senator mentioned. It is not finished, i.e. finding a way out, but the will remains clear to do so. And I have strongly believed that this is one of the greatest freedoms people have in this country, to be able to control where they live and to pursue their jobs from there. This is a very important case, which is a great will on the part of this government to continue with. Of course, all of us rejoice that there is more support for such matters at the council and that discussion is good at the council, but it is not my job to set priorities on committees, it is natural for Congress to do so. I'm not so lucky to be one of these 63 members, so I will not interfere with the priorities of the Senate committees. I don't think that's my job. I can say again that the most important thing in all of this is that we agree on these baseline values. Then it's all about money, like we talked about. We need money to do things. Words are expensive, like hooves. A senator knows, so let us be careful not to make promises to ourselves but to ensure that money is done. Then I'm sure, in the long run, there will be one of the greatest freedoms we've ever seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u23	Mr. President. Very nice to hear. I'd like to take more into account the review of the post and communications agency's reviews so that this is very clear because the chairman of the Committee, Þórhallsson, wanted to have a little more discussion about this on the Committee on Justice, so it doesn't seem to have made it quite possible. All we have to do is hope that this court order will be accepted by the Committee as per the Commission's review: To ensure that traffic control on communications networks does not preclude specific services and thus prevent innovation and competition, the examples of these are natural abroad. This is so important. So, what I'm trying to do here is bring up an issue and, as it were, create a welcome conclusion that we're going to finish this off with an environmental and transport committee and just ask if it's not good to get the special knowledge of the pirats in this regard, a legitimate situation in this regard, into all this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u24	V.E.G. President. The Assembly Hall is the location of senators to promote their views and it was done here on a special discussion the other day, and this is being done on the Environment and Transport Committee. If I understand this case correctly, it's still under discussion. It's not finished with the Committee as far as I'm told. As I'm saying, who's in charge of what? paritaprevir That's where Þórhallsson's house, and he's better off explaining the work of an environment and transportation committee, I just don't know what it's like. I reiterate what I said before, it's important that we discuss this whole network thing and the sound of the pirata is certainly very powerful there, there's no doubt about it, and there's no question about it that we're here who's working in this room. The key point is that we need to get on with our basic service. The task that I face in this chair now is to get it done, but the talk about this is never finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u25	A respectable president. It is insignificance for a marine minister to suggest that members of the council who do not agree with him about the mackerel clothanan do not want to keep the country inhabited. But it can be understood to the highest degree. A minister has such a protection and is equally sensitive to questions about the mackerel clothane as we see it, for the highest. Minister's about to get pretty lonely about it. Thirty thousand Icelanders - and they continue to increase - call for votes on the Minister's mackerel proposals. I simply ask the minister: Is it not possible for the people to vote for his suggestions on the mackerel machine? Isn't it just a matter of time before the President of Iceland is upset and direct these suggestions to a vote in the nation when tens of thousands of people have asked for it? Is that not in complete agreement with the Minister's declarations, on the one hand, that this is the national partnership and, hence, those who are calling for a vote for the proposal, and, on the other, many declarations of the highest degree? Minister here at the council for the need for the people's approach, and for the people to vote for various important matters? Surely, this is an important matter, for the minister is suggesting that an enormous value be given years in advance to a small privileged group, so that not just one general election is needed but two to make changes. A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister does not have to ask others why they want an auction. The auction has given us enormous wealth, such as to our cousins, and I ask the highest. Minister: Did not offering up our literature result in much higher fishing costs in the Faeroe Islands? [[The president calls.]] Don't we all sit at the same table there? Ask yourself: " Why shouldn't the authority be offered up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u26	A respectable president. Because of what? Perhaps a senator ended up talking about the Faeroe Islands, recalling that they did offer a portion of the makoth. He went to Chinese factory ships, he went out of the heavy - eared economy, and today the passers are building some kind of system into the future, considering contracts, which are much like the highest level. Minister here has spoken for. And the macrotic bill, the memorizing of the macrotics by temporary sources, is built into such an environment, and it is a good example for such factors. She is in Denmark, where people distributed the mackerel for six years, and then the council found that it was a short period of time and distributed it to eight years of age. There is no discussion that has been given to one or no one, and the same discussion should, of course, be here. Hv. A senator sat here during the last term and knows it well that the last government, and the management parties then decided to take part of the macro, out of the system that is here and assign it handly to other pots, including to make sure that I think, that the mackerel would be new rather than just in the East, also in the northwestern country, and around the country. I understand that point of view. But already it is. A senator would come up here and talk about the gift garden now, he would have to wonder who gave a greeting to the non-fishing parties and in the legal setting that the U.S. Marshal's last government had been obliged to share on the basis of the laws in the country, i.e. By Regulation. That's not what the current government is doing. We're setting a special law. We're setting a time chain of quanan to prevent exactly what's going on. A senator is accusing the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u27	A respectable president. Wasn't the question simple, chief. Minister? Would it not be wise to allow the people to choose these suggestions? Don't you think it's the request of 30,000 Icelanders to vote on whether this society's partnership will be given many years in the future? Can't be the highest. Minister just answered the question addressed to him? He can let it be for me to lecture on politics in the Faeroes. Thus, it may be chosen in the Faeroe Islands in the fall, and it will be chosen for this very basic point: In what way are sources to be distributed, and in what way is it to be paid in public funds? I know why the minister did not answer the other question, for neither of the questions raised to him was answered. Did not the Faeroe Islands' state funds receive much higher fishing fees when auction was used than here have ever been collected? [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister does not want to answer that question because the answer is simple: Yes, much higher income to the public by auction than any other method. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u28	A respectable president. I understand that here representatives of minorities come, and especially those in the last government, avoiding as much as possible, that the U.S. Marshal's agent has given his opinion on their administration during the last term, I understand that. I'm a little surprised at the request of which. A senator is wondering if this is a national bill. He was not so impressed when we spoke here Icesave. Nor has he been so impressed with whether to listen to them and the 70 thousand signatures that say that the city's airport should remain where it is and should not be cut down while working on some change in the future. It's amazing that people come up here and don't talk about things. On the other hand, if they want to talk about things in the real world, it's so that we advance into increasing national regulations. They need to build that environment, that work is now being done in the Board of Directors, and I expect that conclusion to come soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u29	A respectable president. The subject of my inquiry lies to the UN Convention on Biodiversity or The Convention on Biological Diversity, by permission of the President, but the objective of this contract is to protect structural diversity and contribute to the sustainable use of living natural resources. At the same time, the objective of the contract is to contribute to the fair exchange of profits resulting from the use of genetic resources as well as access to them and technology to use them. The treaty is not so often spoken at the Assembly Hall and the United Nations Climate Convention, but it is equally important. The treaty traces its history back to the Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 1992 and was confirmed at the General Assembly as early as 1994. Now, almost all the countries of the world are parties to the agreement, but the contract is about to protect the complex ecosystems and to take care of the ecosystems that they do not cause permanent and serious setbacks. The Convention aims to protect biodiversity, to ensure that resource use, organic resources, is sustainable and that interest is divided in a just way, as presented here. The Environment and Resource Ministry is currently available from the last terms of Iceland's last terms on biodiversity, i.e. Action plan. For this reason, I would like to ask the highest. Ministers in terms of the implementation of this strategy, but a large part of the policy and implementation of the strategy falls towards the work of the institutions of the Environment and Resource Ministry, and, of course, also of the marine export and agricultural services. These institutions are mainly the National Institute of Nature for Iceland and the EEA, Landorg and Foresting, Marine Research Institute, Veterans Institute, National Deforestation and Genetic Committee for Agriculture and, above all, the Food Organization. My questions to the highest. There are two ministers. First, I'd like to ask her, because she has an environmental, resource, and nature protection issue in Iceland: What is the minister of the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity? Second, what measures will be taken to ensure that the terms of the contract are followed, especially in the case of fishing the resource?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u30	A respectable president. My brief answer may be to the first question: Much - i.e. what is the value of the United Nations Convention? But I'm going to go through it a little bit more thoroughly than with a single word. The United Nations Convention on Biodiversity, which originated at the Rio Conference in 1992, is a very important international deal, as it were. A senator agreed, along with a number of other nations, on the protection contract of nature, Iceland. In many lands, species and habitats are threatened. Perhaps it would be a good reminder to visit a show at the National Society's House and consider the bird stuffed in our eyes. Since we do not want other living things to experience such a fate, this international agreement on protecting life on earth is important. It is a large global agreement that covers all aspects of the environment from ecosystems and ecosystems to species and genes involved in the protection and sustainable use. It has also affected other environmental protection treaties, both international and regional, as well as those responsible for nature's efficiency. Thus, the agreement affects many aspects of human life, and there are so many aspects of our activities, such as transport, consumption, employment, culture and policy development, and the implementation of a part of it. So it is interesting if we could increase the nation's awareness of the issues involved in the contract and further its implementation in this country. Iceland's policy of implementation of the contract was adopted by the government seven years ago, and the strategy was adopted two years later, the implementation plan as it was. A senator took care of things earlier. The implementation of the policy has been carried out on the basis of that strategy since the Ministry. These include such factors as recent completion of the construction of the Kingdom by scavenging of natural birch forests and shrubs on land. The results were presented to one of three, four months, at the beginning of this year, and this is the first time from land mine that is now confirmed to be growing again. Thus, we can say that the decline of those who began to be inhabited in the land is over and the jungles are spreading again. They are now covering up another percent of the country. Most of the grasslands have spread in Western and South countries. In this regard, there is also the strengthening of various projects to the recovery of birch forests, especially Heklu forests. However, there are other factors to work on this policy, and it highlights the issues of wetlands, the ship's quality water standards, the extension of research, and the development of ecosystems in the area of recovery and detriment. At the same time, it is proper to mention work on a reexamination of nature protection laws, which will strengthen the implementation of this process. Then I would like to be able to handle a job set up in the Ministry, with all the directors of its institutions, who are under investigation. The officers gathered together to promote cooperation, in some cases even to unite on certain things, but the vision of the proposals given to me is that a powerful and professional job is being carried out in the field of data collections, research and monitoring in Iceland's nature. They also contribute to the problem of information sharing and decision-making on any kind of natural problem. I think it's a very important step that was taken, so I'm very happy with this cooperation on increasing nature and research. In accordance with the objectives to the year 2020, there is a new trend for biological diversity. I'd like to point out that the Institute of Nature has been working on this and the mapping of Iceland's nature for the past three years, and that's the major project called Natura Iceland. In this regard, I would also like to guess that Iceland's Institute of Natural Science and Geological Studies have agreed to work together on mapping, wherever the projects can overlap with the two institutions. In many areas research is being tried. Therefore, expectations can be held that it may be better to aim for a peaceful state of land, species, and general nature protection to highlight this agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the value of the Convention on Biodiversity, which I consider very important for Iceland. I have long wondered how we can get the knowledge of the agreements and the translation that it has to the public and how we can put information on the content and value of the contract into the classes of high school. I remember filming from an observation project that was considered notic, where children at the age of 10 were involved in a biological diversity project and worked with the sea in their own country. I would like to direct a question to both the leader and the minister: How might instruction on these matters be given more fully?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u32	Madam President. I want to thank you. The starter for stressing the importance of this contract. I believe the Convention on Biodiversity is a key contract for Iceland and Icelandic Nature Protection. I say that in recent years, I believe that the agency that plays the most part, Iceland's Natural Science Institute, has done a great feat in fulfilling various duties that Iceland has to do with this contract with a relatively deep financial shortage often in recent times. However, former environmental minister should be commended for her hard work. I agree perfectly with it. Ministers said here and had from the policy of their institutions, it is very important to collect information, continue to map Iceland, map the habitats, map the spread of species, because only that knowledge allows us to meet our obligations but the contract is, in effect, a kind of creative device for well-enable nature protection in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u33	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers and others who have participated in this too short of discussion on the terms and importance of the agreement. I'd like to wind up asking the highest. Minister of several questions in the implementation programme for Iceland's biodiversity policy. First of all, it emphasizes that there will be a credit card for the lowlands of Iceland. As far as I know, this log isn't finished, but it's very important to map dry land, including freshwater and wetlands, and the rest of the country at the same time. The Environmental Ministry report of last terms shows that this will be completed in three to six years. According to the National Institute of Nature, a minimum of 5,700 million would be expected to map dry land and fresh water according to that schedule, but this registration began during the last term and strengthened, but as far as I know it was known, that work was stopped for political reasons. Second, I would like to ask about the point of the same peace-telling report, which shows that the environment should be resolved according to a natural protection programme 2004-03/208, which is the natural most advanced nature protection programme and has not been proved to be very well established. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Peace Information on the basis of a night protection programme, we also do better on that later on. So third and final, regarding the limitations of the distribution of invasive alien species, these are natural hazards which require special attention, i.e. The types of species that are aggressive in the Icelandic ecosystem that have caused damage and need to be handled in a specific and clear way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u34	A respectable president. I appreciate your discussion and questions, starting with the last question the senator raised on aggressive species. How true it is that we need to exercise caution in this regard! Work will continue in the Ministry, I can assure her of that, about the lice, the systems, and other such types I'll show you that this morning's newspaper is an article about our Christmas trees and the carelessness we may all show by letting old Christmas trees around in the park, that's why for a year. It can seriously affect the environment, we don't know what it is. I give an example as simple as that because I've just read about it, but.... Senator. So it is true, like everything else, to walk slowly through the door of joy and especially when it comes to nature. This excellent program also mentions what the senator was doing, how we can expand our education. I think it would be very important if you could work with schoolchildren, how young, old sports, that's classic. In terms of privacy, because time is running out, I know we'll go to them later at the meeting, we'll talk about them there. For the dry land and its mapping, one part of the projection plan was thought to have to be completed. It is now 2015, and I will certainly get information right after that about how that work is going to work. [[The president calls.]] You're right. This is the key to all of this, and with his Össur, for example, we were able to save our Skarpéðinsson, the ice age, from ruin.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u35	A respectable president. I'm here asking a question to the highest level. Environment and resource Minister on task management Framework. This big, big project, frame plan, has been going on here for decades, creating a basis for some kind of equilibrium between innovation and protection of natural habitats in Iceland. This is an enormous and difficult political scene that has caused us to struggle repeatedly, i.e. The way we want to implement natural habitats in Iceland and a frame plan was designed as a way to control the conflict, the debate. During our last term, we were lent ourselves to put together national legislation in crosspolitic terms and, in addition, in cooperation with our rural communities, the Law on a Framework Plan, i.e. what the career should be. Now it's time for us to figure out the weaknesses and strengths of this tool while testing it, but one of the key agents involved in the success of a frame plan and the success of the process as such has confidence in the community is the task programme. The task management is under the law to propose to the Minister on the final classification of natural areas. The final category is about suggesting whether an area should be used for energy sources or protected from energy sources. In between, there is the waiting party, which is thought to provide further information. That is a good arrangement, and it is extremely important. This was repeated in the case of the Supreme Being. A minister in office after a particular initial difficulty in dealing with the project, that it was of great importance for her to have confidence and to be able to do her job. V.E.G. The current minister has followed this example and repeatedly referred to the importance of the project management and stressed this role. We now have a suggestion. Workaholics working at the council, which is an adjustment and an addition to a proposal at the highest level. Minister, contrary to the motion of the Commission. [[The president calls.]] So I ask: What position and role do the Minister of Project Management consider?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u36	A respectable president. As noted, the project management programme has well set up positions and roles according to the laws that apply to it, No. 48/2011, which says that the role of project management is primarily to provide advice on national protection and energy use. In turn, the laws provide more accurate guidance on the role of the project management, which specifically includes what is stated in Article 9. which says: Eco-efficiency is the management of information collection, professional assessment, scr. 4 mg. 3. g., and develop proposals for Ministers due to the protection and energy efficiency programmes and is a consultation area because of them. The task management programme shall appoint professional groups in appropriate areas to review the method of activation from their own perspective, to evaluate them by strategration, and to provide suggestions for project management. Project management sometimes reminds me of a wind of divorce, as it was in the past. Thus, a projector plays a vital role in preparing government decision - making in the complex and controversial issues involved in a Framework Programme. It is proper to draw a frame plan back a few years. In 2011, the Act on Framework Plans was adopted at the General Assembly. It tells you what to do with suggestions and decisions for the protection and use of natural areas as well as energy efficiency. These laws on practical procedures were adopted without opposition during the council and were welcomed as an important step in achieving a common basis on the fortresses and nature protection in Iceland. Projections of the framework are appointed experts in the various fields of science and in a variety of resource uses. The work of a project is now expected for three trade groups: A team 1 involved in nature and culture, a group 2 that operates on resource efficiency other than energy efficiency and the functional class 3 involved in the social impact of energy efficiency. Special groups 1 and 2 are already active and are being developed as a member of the Task Group No. 3. A Ramma program deals with a wide range of interests that address different viewpoints, comparing professional men from different articles to comparing these different viewpoints. In addition, the content of a Framework Programme is complex in this regard to diverse views that are both natural, economic, and social. Thus, it is important that as many professional views become aware of the needs that are fundamental to the evaluation and decision making. Indeed, rejoicing in a frame plan is not that some one and only one is the ruler of the truth but that of various viewpoints, which are then laid on the decision - making process. Happily, we enjoy the happiness of living in this country a very large and powerful group of professional people in the area of which a frame plan applies so that we can be better informed and well founded on a decision in this big interest. I've mentioned here that I'd like to be able to work under a frame plan, that she really gets to enjoy herself, because that's the first time right now that we actually work under the law. Well - organized groups have not been used to the extent that the law suggests, so I look closely to the work being done today. I have prayed that we stay a little for a year and a half, until we see how the task management now operates and the subgroups, the professionals, manage what is assigned to them and the much work they have under their care. It is more than merely saying that I have a desire to make peace in one of the main issues of the nation, but I would like to point out that I also think that we should examine some of the lost potentials of energy, which include less intervention in nature than big living space. It is a natural knowledge that enables such decisions to be made. I'm talking about wind power, I'm talking about wave energy or sea energy or whatever else, whether we should put more money in research in these areas. It took many years for us to realize that wind power would become the resource it is and that it is becoming evident right now. So, a new process is now started with the project management, and I really hope it has results. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to end it by saying that, according to my ideas, the frame is a firm ace, one on the other side is protection, and the other side is the use and then wait in the middle. I think that the head that thinks is the Allied Congress of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u37	A respectable president. The question is often asked when these issues arise here in the Hall of Congress: Should the General not have any access to a judicial resolution of projects from the task force and minister? It is to answer, in my opinion, that games doubt any project, the Council should intervene in such a way that nature enjoys the doubt, i.e. that the principle of nature and environmental rights is honored by nature's enjoyment of the doubt. However, this is sadly the opposite route on the part of the employment committee when it is suggested that the benefits not fully investigated are enabled. I want in the seconds I have to discuss these matters to the highest degree. A minister to be a spokesman for the instrument of the law on the frame plan, because it is not, as the example proves, that they are followed out in the flesh. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u38	A respectable president. Compared to the highest. A minister earlier said I can only hear her opposed to the changes made by the sector committees presented here. I'd like her to tell us this clearly, because if the more part of the council is going to accept the suggestions that come from that source, it's a decision to ignore a framework plan. Then the decision is to make that the result of the project management is not to be used and if the task management programme management specifically states that if, for example, the task management programme will not be used. Waters will be approved here to make the final decision that the project is unnecessary because it has not fully completed that option. A respectable president. I'd like to hear that. A minister made a decision here what will result from this tragic employment committee proposal, but she will carry out this mission. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u39	A respectable president. I'm not gonna waste my time repeating it as a two-knuckle. The senators said before me, but merely to agree. However, I wanted to mention one thing that we forget about this conversation, and I think it is also appropriate to mention in the macroil discussion, that is a resource push and control in a very broad sense. When it comes to the mackerel, the Allied works by some of its previous legal procedures. And in this case too, the program has been adopted, but it can be pointed out that. The employment committee is fully free to leave this arrangement, because we are the legislature body and we are in charge of this. This, in my opinion, emphasizes that we need to discuss more fully how we are going to take this fundamental step. I suggest that the subject should be discussed in connection with a constitution, in particular a bill of administration legislation to a administrative law. Finally, I suggest that the conference committees of the Generals have been regularly opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers and others who have participated in the discussion here. I'm especially glad that the above words are spoken. Ministers that she loves the structure process and believes that she should be allowed to enjoy herself, such as the highest. Minister puts it, because like the highest. A minister rightly says we are now, for the first time, working under the law. Let's stay for a year and a half, says the highest. Minister. Then I understand that she wants her professional groups and project management to complete her work in 2017 and make a suggestion to the highest level. A minister who then contributes to the development of operations at the General Assembly. How precious it is not to interrupt this delicate process! I agree with what has happened to other members of the council who have participated in the discussion that it is of utmost importance. Ministers are making clear in these matters because not only members of the government opposition are concerned about the willingness of the project management but the task management itself has said that they have not been given the means to complete a discussion on the benefits that are needed. The employment board suggests that they will be transferred without reference to the Commission's recommendation to a final category, to final conclusions. It's very dramatic for a frame plan, it'd be a bad legacy for the highest level. Environment Minister if it would be done at her time to compromise with the Framework Act and, in effect, to replace the task management, working under the highest Environment Minister, in the sense that it would not be a waiting attitude to wait for her to complete her work. Sometimes a year and a half are spoken of until the spring of 2017. [[The president calls.]] I think it is very important to take advantage of that time to ensure that there is a greater possibility of reconciliation with the outcome. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u41	A respectable president. I just reiterate that we started this year's new work programme process. I have prayed for peace and for the subgroups there today. And that's right, I hope, at the end of 2016, around the New Year's and that's why there's a new proposal for the Council. I spoke of both the winds and the aces in my first speech, and it makes me feel as important to me if there's anything to do with this work, that you take it for protection and peace to come upon them, i.e. what may be there, and therefore that they may be taken away. Similarly, they will be set aside for energy efficiency and will be able to begin in preparation for it. A waiting party, as indicated by the name, will be considered later. I don't want to be looking too much back. I know that now a committee, a professional health committee, is working on this controversial matter. I'm not gonna give myself anything about what is going on with those committee meetings, and I'd like to wait for them to come here in the Senate Hall. I have previously made that statement from this public address, and I can repeat that I had found it acceptable, even though a professional committee had put the three advantages in a campaign because they had almost all been fully researched and men who are working there have said that they could have been short of hair. [[The president calls.]] That's what I've written from this sermon, and that's what I can say right here. But I sure hope that now we can change our work habits and look for this one and a half years and consider the benefits to each other and respect the decisions made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u42	A respectable president. I'll ask you a question to the highest level. Environment and resource minister on policy in the state of peace. The situation is that in the time of the government, which is now inhospitable, in terms of peace. Clearly, the EEA conducts the project, preparing for peace reports. We have had the practice in Iceland that in order for peace to be declared, it takes, in effect, a three - sided agreement between a state, a rural society, and landowners to reach a country in the decision-making process. But at the time of the present government, there has been more than one declaration of peace in this category. The Preservation Group, the one determined here with a vote in the 2013 Parliament, is unturned until 2015. For two years there has been no peace description. A respectable president. It is of utmost importance, if you are to keep a balance in a frame plan, that it is not just that a frame plan is a result of some kind of structure for the energy companies, but it is also a way to ensure the progress of the protection, because otherwise the balance is not credible. The amount of money for peace has been minimal, the financial resources for peace reports based on the Preservation Group of Frameworks has almost been cut out. I'm here to ask about three conditions of peace. First of all, what I've already mentioned, i.e. based on a series of protective frameworks, secondly on the basis of a nature protection programme, which is adopted according to current environmental protection laws for a specific period of time. It lists areas that have high or high protection values in the opinion of those who know best in the community. What is the basis for the peace profile of a nature protection programme? Then third: How does the terms of peace with landowners and/or rural society go? It is also something that we see happening, that it is the initiative of landowners or rural society, which is the basis for the declarations of peace. In this case, reasoning is often different. But I ask that in order to live up here in my question to the highest. Minister to ask about the Minister's policy and the future vision of peace description. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u43	A respectable president. A minister's policy in terms of terms of terms of peace on the basis of a nature protection programme and a reservation of protection is to comply with the opinion of the members of the Parliament. There are certain areas in the country where peace is to be declared by the laws on nature protection. In a recommendation on a protection and energy efficiency programme for the protection party of the current framework, the following: ▪ The Agency shall be established when the Allied Council has agreed with a national protection and energy efficiency programme set in motion for a peace-depth environment which is a reason for peace reporting about energy efficiency according to the programme's guardianship. While the terms of the peace described by nature protection are based on the laws on nature protection, the cultural memory is in accordance with national laws. In terms of peace descriptions, the initiative between landowners and/or rural society is taken into consideration on a case by case basis. Since such forms of peace have not passed the professional preparatory process responsible for the synopsis of peace descriptions on the basis of nature protection programme or strategies, these cases need to be reviewed specifically and to evaluate the natural protection levels of the affected region and the criteria behind the wishes of the respective members. The status of these forms of peace varies from year to year, providing the EEA with a yearly explanation for the position of that work in reports. That work continues. I've mentioned before whether we have a lot of peace statements, and it's too late, whether it would have been better to have fewer and more quickly work them. The end should be considered at the beginning. Now that I have seen these forms of peace and protection recently, I have not felt that the cry of peace and the financial support that has taken place in order to make sure of the territory. There is little to say if you have not since been guided by the protection. It has then been found that the precise boundaries of the areas of protection set up and that the terms of the law No. 48/2011, it is not clear, and it has also been delayed. Perhaps it would be better and clearer if we had a set minimum cut-off of each protection initiative and that a Senate resolution proposal for the protection and energy efficiency of territory would be made to show the minimum limit. We now assume that the decision will be made on the future proposals of the currently active task management. Substitution has also been a delay in reaching an agreement with landowners. I was able to deal with earlier today that the Ministry's Subcommittee has made an agreement to work together on the various design of nature and the land. But a covenanting is a commitment to the future, and we need to be guided by long - term thoughts. I can tell you that the country has already been declared at about 20%. My opinion is, and I repeat, we are to put the priority of certain forms of peace and even larger territory. I want peace announcements, and I find it more beneficial to protect larger territories than maybe a lot of smaller ones so that they can get the funds for the business that will also be done so well. We all agree that more money is needed for the protection of nature, and hopes are in order to achieve it as soon as possible, or so I hope. I have initiated a team of workers who are designed to map and prioritize emergency operations for the development of peace-lit areas. These include areas at risk of the EEA's so-called red and orange lists. This is a good idea for a bill of long-term development at tourist locations that I have recently proposed at the Council for... infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] I think I may say that the government of Iceland is fully aware that there is a need to take account of the peace and protection of these areas... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u44	President. There are two areas I'd like to discuss in this context. It is the Tungna River region, north of the Torfajokul area to the Mountainbak, which was set up in a protective pack for several generations, and the Northern Ages, and the areas of Þjórjörður, which are a great mystery to me that have not been passed through a peace-telling process. These two areas are among the greatest treasures of Icelandic nature. What a surprise it is that we are not done doing these things! Today, the Ministry of Education is working on applying for the registration of the Torfajokus region of the UNESCO World Memorial. And the moon just goes up against that area. It is absolutely crystal clear in my mind that this registration will never be achieved unless the territory in the edge of the Torfajokus has been resolved. Of course, the government must start to dress up and deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u45	A respectable president. I'm a little sad to hear the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister will come up here and agree with what's in my opinion total nonsense, to wait for some sort of coordinated system, and to accept the coordinates of the council so that men can get started with a statement of peace. Such coordinates are not needed when it is time to agree to put the continuum transfunctioners into a novelty class or to initiate activation in some land area. The lack of acceptance of the Coordinates at the Council should not be inhibited. A respectable president. It's very important to me that not only is it spoken in this chair but it's that people talk. And what I find to be the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister should make it clear to us that it will not accept the changes made by the Directorate of Employment and that the Act of Peace will be legal in the areas of protection. That'd be a great idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u46	Madam President. V.E.G. Since a minister has not been in office for long, she is not to blame for what kind of viewpoint she is in. However, the highest was reported. Ministers nothing more than a harsh sentence of anger over the government. There could be no conclusion from the speech other than that there was literally nothing going on in the Ministry of Environment and Resources for Peace Information. Of course, this does not surprise anyone. We know what fought for a coin to be put in peace description that it was the frame of drawing where the government was. The situation is simply that there was no privacy in the areas of protection. During the last term, the fund was set aside only for that purpose. Similarly at that time, general funds were also used for other forms of peace. Peace details are a very important means of protecting natural value for the future, and it is very important that we work at them constantly. It grieves me, but it's not surprising, to speak of the highest. The minister was basically on the point that the government is not doing anything about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u47	A respectable president. V.E.G. One minister says that there may have been a number of forms of peace on the program, and they may need fewer and faster work. A respectable president. How can they be fewer than none? How can you reduce the number of forms of peace? That's the situation. That's the standard, a respectable president. Perfect ambition and lack of interest in these matters and to total shame. V.E.G. A minister here speaks as if she was an amateur in a town as far as the funds for peace information and outside control in order to guard and fire territories. Is the Minister going to fight for this funding in the next budget? Is there a basis for a handsome approach in this matter? What's that as high as possible? Ministers preach here but a general, well-willed word? What is the minister's real objective in this regard? It's good when it's the highest. A minister said that she would prefer peace in a slightly larger area than those of the arts approved by the council, the General of the Icelanders. No, she likes the areas a little bigger. What is it, a respectable president, the highest. Minister's talking about? Is it a national park, one continuous national park in Iceland's highlands? Exciting. That'd be great. We're ready for it, I'm ready for it. That's what I'm talking about. Minister's going to make a proclamation? That's what I'm talking about. A minister may feel appropriate to the highest degree. Ministers are about to take over their heads and go to peace-declaring something - something in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u48	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion. Yes, we could talk a lot about these matters here. But about the final words. Svavarsdóttir My words were now completely broken out of context. I don't think it's right for me to peace-declare an area if I don't know at the same time if I have the funds to work on its progress and funding to set up a national security and monitoring, so it won't get damaged again. It makes me feel that peace is not meaningful. So I was trying to come out of my mouth, but maybe I haven't been clear enough. So I'd like to make sure that I know in advance, when I decide something, that it's done decently. That's why I may have discussed that it would be better to have a larger area, to appease a certain area, handsomely, and that you would provide funds and property. I'm not the person who wants to stand in the chair and say beautiful words but don't act. It's totally opposite of all my nature, so let's just wait and see. I'll try to dress myself up in a book, as said here, and handle it. I'm not uninterested about this, but I don't feel that, so I repeat it here for the third time, anything to do about beating my chest over that I've been at peace with some 30 zones if there's nothing behind it, and if there's nothing to do with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for having this phrase about the position in the labour market today, which is the least dark. It is not impossible to review the government's declaration of policy, which says, by permission of a president: In recent years the government also plans to eliminate the political uncertainty that has been too prominent in Icelandic society. The workforce and development of work markets will be expanded to a wide range of agreements with the labour market. This was true in the government covenant, but the situation is now that the 1980's has returned in cold spring and labour struggles. The issues are broad, both public and public. BHM's impact is already being extensive, and the head of cancer at the Land Hospital has said that this will not continue indefinitely, and these strike operations will affect patients and their treatment. There is a modest, direct party that has not been shown to be in terms of dresser reforms or indirect measures, such as in the affairs of Icelandic students. We will also be able to have a broad impact on transport services and fish exports, our main exports. Food practices, restaurants, commuting, everything can get upset. There is uncertainty in the discussion that representatives of the government say something or something. The original spoke the highest. Prime Minister for cost-of-the-art costs, but secretary of finance for other types of contracts, i.e. Not necessarily a dollar raise to the lowest paid. What's the bottom line? Prime Minister now? Has he changed his mind? Is he missing from the crowning promotions for the lowest paid? V.E.G. Secretary of finance has made it evident that it is not the government to resolve disputes in the general market. V.E.G. On the other hand, the prime minister has said that governments can play a number of games, such as in housing, which are stuck in the Ministry of finance, where they are assigned an energy bar to run after work in housing matters. V.E.G. So a minister of finance played on the labor's day that the priority was to eliminate the electric tax on an aluminium, and it comes on top of everything else; reduction in hunting costs, de-explorement of resource taxes, increase in food tax. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is this prerogative of the government likely to pay for the solution of collective agreements? Is it not true that all these governmental actions are far more likely to harden the knot than the second, since none of them benefit the lowest wage? Since the start of the present government, tens of billions of people have taken direct action by the government into the will of the wealthy. They are all political decisions, and they do not fall to create a good work environment. And there was so much morning work. A minister of finance at the labor's day when he used the opportunity to ask the cost of instability, thereby pointing out the responsibility for the instability of the national employee movement. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on the responsibilities of instability Perhaps the instability is the responsibility of those who make room for banks at the same time as the 20% Icelandic people are under 300 of you. K. In the day-workers? Is he responsible for those who raise their own salary and then give their employees ice picks in a petition? Does not such an example really matter in such a time when employment conditions are more than ever in years and decades? Mr. President. I know the nation looks to the highest. Prime Minister, awaiting his message into this dispute. Does he believe that the priorities of the government, the decline of taxes, and the paying on the more prosperous, were reasonable in promoting a workforce? Has he abandoned his ideas on a special increase for the lowest paid in society? Will we expect to play a game, such as in tax matters, to facilitate a solution to the general labour market? How, then, will a government negotiation committee directly involved in the BHM dispute that has been present for several weeks, where we also hear different voices? V.E.G. The secretary of finance says that it is normal to consider education in remuneration, but then we read in paper that the head of the government commission says that the emphasis on education is on taking into account our own. Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is the plan for the State to make this issue easy, although the task is so extensive that we haven't seen so many decades that both the public and the professional situation will not be affected badly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for covering this discussion with an enormously important solution. Granted, we are facing a very difficult job situation, but this situation is not due to a decrease in the number of valuable things in the country or increased unemployment or poor health cuts or more inequities. [[Up front.]] No, the situation is not even the result of inflation, on the contrary, economic growth, and increase in valuable things, one of the most measured in developed countries. Unemployment is at least in Europe. Health contributions have been greatly increased by a new government after the incision of the last terms. Inconsistencies have continued to decline, so that in Iceland there is probably now the lowest in the world, and inflation has finally been at last, at last, below the UN Bank's prices for a long time. The result is the largest commercial growth in Western lands. It is under the circumstances that arise of the most difficult places people have seen in a job market for decades. I have long watched with interest what comes from the hardworking Bessason named Sigurður. The most recent issue of the Work Programme, a magazine of the UN, asks how you plan to get out of the correction phase with a high pay raise and into a stable phase with a much lower level of options. Sigurður responds, by permission of the President: ▪ I believe our problems are not just to SA or to where they are. He no less turns to us as laborists. Today, we are unable to communicate well enough, and we have quite different demands. One of the things I think it is necessary to take up the discussion about this very question; what then? Now, you might start a career in which a bargain contract for years will be upset. This will happen if we do not reach an acceptable conclusion now but at the same time discuss how we want to see the future in this area of choice. I want to see us entering the Norwegian route, where commercial power is slowly built up but surely in low inflation and more equations. There, Sigurður certainly hit the head. It is strange, however, to hear the approach of the government at the present position. I realize that it is certainly too much to be expected to show a lot of responsibility in this difficult situation, let alone put forth solutions because no one I have heard from that direction, but to use methods such as to accuse the government of participating in this position by enforceing contracts made by the last government, in order to form a contract to set up an electronic tax or a last government decision on delinquency, whether the last decisions made by the government, right by the financial Minister of the last administration before the election - this will clearly go to the end. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar and should not be surprised when it comes to stating that the only thing the government has to offer is to teach the current government to enforce its own agreements. [[Up front.]] Granted, there is a difficult situation in the workplace, but do not forget that there is also an enormous opportunity to continue building on the results that have been attained in the country in the past two years. In fact, there has been no petition from the government, however, that this is not the case; it turns to professional drivers. Not to be overlooked, a respectable president, is the role of employers or their representative and employee to negotiate, not the government. Still, there are many things the government can offer. Of course, if employers and employees negotiate in a way that does not pose a threat to the nation's economy, promoting inflation and the means of welfare in the land, the government will be able to contribute much rather than further increase the provision of the people's resources, but the government will not throw firewood or spit on inflation if men make inflatable treaties instead of making use of the opportunities they face. Then they will need to examine ways to cool down that trend, to view taxes rather than tax increases, to maintain a government policy rather than an increase in expenses, and to know what the Navy will do. He'll grow and raise them considerably. As a result, there is an even greater inflation, increased loans, and a quick decrease in investments, cutbacks in companies, and, therefore, rising unemployment rates in employees. [[The president calls.]] There's no reason, a respectable president, to throw away the tools for a stage like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u51	A respectable president. This was an out - of - line discussion with the government director in which we focus on a very difficult labour market debate and the legitimate demands of paymen to increase pay, to come here, and to heap abuses in all directions instead of providing a solution to the nation's prime minister. But there were no suggestions, none. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. One prime minister does not mention that the State is an accessory to an argument that has now existed in the fifth week. There's nothing to tell, nothing from the top. Prime Minister. He only points out that there are others in the town who should resolve the matter. Of course, the government puts the lines on this sort of discussion, and it's obvious that the line is that nothing should be done, it's just to wait for something. And no one knows what it is. There is no need for political leadership in this matter, absolutely, as in everything else. The only thing this government can do is quickly reduce the budget to the highest income, lower hunting costs, and now it's its main task and most important thing to eliminate energy taxes on big corporations, aluminium companies. I'd like to hear the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The minister of finance is as sure to speak for serenes as they speak for the reduced spells on the most successful. It would be a message that some sense would be in our society. The latest research shows that OECD's feed - up theory, which this government seems to believe most, does not work on the contrary. [[The president calls.]] It would be a good thing for us Icelanders to raise the handsome lowest income here in this country and thus try to promote our community rather than go the wrong way... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u52	A respectable president. The situation in the labour market is an adventureful mess. V.E.G. The prime minister here is eager to speak of the opposition as not a responsibility and that it is not to be expected to be responsible. There has been a red thread in at least the Bjartr's criticism of the government and a lot of others, I have heard that the government was very irresponsible in the conduct of the struggle. Condemned irresponsibility, I'd say. Has the government done anything to prevent this situation from forming in a labour market? Has she ever shown any cards? Has she ever made it clear that some form of consultation takes place in a workforce? The proposed national agreements that we may wish to repeat in Icelandic society were several years, one ongoing conversation project that was needed to be taken seriously and to build trust. Has the government done anything like that? How was the last income party of the government here last, government action? He was a double-crosser against the labour market. There, the insurance bill was entered into a complete lack of consultation with the labour market, and it was used to finance all other projects. And how does the government build expectations in a workforce? She makes it her first task to reduce the amount of money that now brings down crushing profits. It is an amazing judgment, and we in the short future have repeatedly called it irresponsible, going to over 100 billion dollars. operation to improve the state of the households; it has no influence on the labour market; it does not matter; it does not matter if it is perfect and irresponsible. [[The president calls.]] The best thing the government would do to pay for us to get out of this, of course, would be to step back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u53	A respectable president. It is interesting to hear this discussion here and to have observed it in the past few months. After especially studying what things are like in the countries we want to compare with, then listening to why. Senators who generally say: We want to be like the North countries, we want to be like these countries, where all this is much better and what it is, and after that, we want to listen to the same members of Congress here on the II Parliament's deliveries, that's amazing. Let me just tell you something. Senators of the government were in the North countries, and remember to speak this way, because they go into every paper case, always, they never go crazy, then they'd be blown off. [[Up front.]] They came here asking for doctors' pay raise, and they insisted. Now they come and say, "Hey, it's gone too far, and that's why this mess is the government's only supposed to go. Words come with responsibility, even in the case of others. ... anticoagulation. In contrast, in the countries we would like to compare ourselves, people know not to try to solve these delicate issues at the councils. Why? Because we can't. [[Up front.]] We can't, Mr. Honorable President. [[Up front.]] A nation has been able to resolve a language in the public assembly's public speakers. [[Up front.]] I hope we can get together to improve the benefits of the lesser ones, I hope we can make it more stable to keep the inflation low, but we don't do it by taking the conversation as it has been, here in this room or in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u54	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister is the government project manager. Now the government has been in power for two years and has had time to go to this conversation, which is always called on, to create a law frame that makes it easier to solve a workforce. It seems that this was not a priority, and we are faced with this. Before Christmas, people saw the controversy that exists in a workforce today. So they quickly tried to ensure that the conversation they need to take place so that we can change the legal environment - better and more mature in other parts of the North countries. It hasn't been done. Of course, the government has a responsibility in this case, she can't just say: it's not our problem, the labour market has to solve this. Yes, but it is the government that should take the initiative in setting a legal device that makes it easier for humans to solve this problem. The government hasn't. In addition to all of this, there's talk of a labor day, like a dog. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, mentioned, said that the priority is to reduce electricity taxes on aluminium companies that are exasperating their profits from the country in terms of their debt, far too debt, and therefore do not have to pay as much taxes in Iceland as make money; they need to be reduced taxes on their companies. I'm listening to a discussion about the French Revolution. You think of this when a new constitution was installed, i.e. When National Convention or National Convention had a constitution, it was intended to eliminate the domain arrangement, etc., then Loðvík XVI. said.: Yes, no, look, I agree with most of these things, but we can't be removing these rights and these benefits that the German princes have in the main order for France. [[The president calls.]] It's like this, it sounds a little similar.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u55	Mr. President. It is amazing how representatives of the government have spoken in this discussion. It is as if they come from the moon or from some distant sphere and are no match for the discussion in the country about the serious situation here. There are strikes, and no one makes fun of themselves, neither public employees nor the low-payers who are fighting for better terms within the Work Programme, 300 of you. K. in three years, which translate after three years is 228 you. K. in a month to support yourself. It is only a different speech that the prime minister gives here today than the one he gave at his party convention, in which he declared a solidarity with the people of his country and its demands. Is it not possible to insist on prime minister that he has the same album as a program in his head when speaking to the public in the country as when speaking at the council? No, it's not like that. Intensification is growing in the country, in the country, in the country, and in the country, there is an increase in the number and property of people in the United States, and there is always a growing trend now. As the dissociation grew here before disaster, the country is again on a full scale. In this country, employees do not cause any inflation, there are others. Job drivers also have the responsibility to place raises in the prices. There's a discrepancy here, that's where the problem is. The government's introduction to the serious state of society is its priority, that is to destabilize the electricity tax on the big business, it's priority to eliminate a wealth tax, it's priority to give certain countries tens of billions of dollars in the country of macrovota, and so on. Is this an introduction to reconciliation in society and at work? [[The president calls.]] Food tax of 11 billion a year, is he entering this serious situation, Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for taking this burning case up to the highest level. Prime Minister. We're watching a situation that we haven't experienced for a long time, a kind of trust time has come up, mixed up feelings. The time that people have put behind them in the past few years has been reduced to leisure time with family, house - to - house choice, and residence, the struggle to pay back loans on an abnormally high growth environment - that time has been trying and has reached the edge of the line. How understandable the bramble is! In such a situation, the facts in the form of practicality are difficult to pass, yet there has never been more in the Habitat. Internationally, income balance is higher in Iceland than in most other countries. But under such delicate circumstances, it is often difficult to focus on statistics in order to reach a reasonable conclusion. If we oversee the increase in values we will look for over the years, and without significant growth in employment, the result will be the cost of pricing, we have many experiences. There's a real increase, economic interest ratings, and there's 3◯4% here for the next few years. Based on this projection, a handsome increase should be possible in the intermediate groups and the largest proportion to the lowest earners. This must be the point of solidarity, but obviously the problem is not to raise the lowest wage, but what to do with the 301 thousand and out. The passwords will still be balanced, stable, and more money - bearing. There we all have a responsibility, a dignified president, and so all parties must come to the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u57	V.E.G. President. During the past two years, we have been in the memory of the Council itself strongly protested by many of the government's actions in terms of state affairs and welfare. In the vast majority of cases, the government and their people have taken over us under the heading "The Meaning of the Teaching. " Now it's payback time, because the government doesn't just have to deal with the smaller parts of the council, it's also people out there. The Icelandic labour market has become a source of turmoil that has not been seen for decades. What's the situation? BHM shops for nearly a month to strike, and the number of victims is increasing. Iceland's Common Association, ahead of us are the strikes of several partners. BSRB, there's a lot of underage and dissatisfaction. It was breaking free, and we don't know what the rest will be, but there seems to be a lack of government understanding of the situation. I want to take advantage of this opportunity, and I want less than anything. The prime minister of this agreement also needs to consider that there are pensioners in this country, both pensioners and micro-energy pensioners, who were given a huge promise here for elections, but all they have received and carried out is baffling. A national budget submitted a few weeks ago does not reveal that the government is aware of the work being assigned to it, i.e. The task of governing the country is to take care of everyone and not just their rich friends. There are hired persons in the Icelandic labour market and pension workers who now have to consider and I suggest that the prime minister be reassigned to the national financial programme and are reviewing only how he intends to solve his role, which is in charge of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u58	A respectable president. When there is a serious situation in the workforce, two members of the government respond to the discussion and exorbitant comments about the government's opposition. One of them goes so far as to lose his temper in the Palais. I wondered: " What makes people feel that it is normal to deal with other people in this way? Of course, it is the explanation of how we are made and what is going to become a workforce in such a way as to communicate. It's a real disappointment, but this has become quite an ordinary event here at the council, unfortunately. Of course, all matters can be solved if people are ready to talk. It has been a desire, on the part of the council, to shoulder their responsibilities, and to do so at the highest level. The prime minister has predetermined that this is not the case. When you listen to a talk, it's the highest. The prime minister recognizes that there has been a complete absence of reality, and for a lesser reason, the call has been made here from a public speaker to another prime minister and listed by higher entropy that they should return the keys, the time has come for him to return his keys. I want to point the top. The prime minister has that solution from the trouble he has come in here, simply to return the keys, because it is absolutely clear that the government is too busy to solve the problem facing her. She can't solve it, she's a big part of the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The voter for raising this important subject at the council and as much as any. Minister for the speech. Of course, we here have to do this work and approach this big challenge with responsibility. What the people in this country need are real treats that last. And how do we get it? Of course, our primary objective should be to control the inflation. For business and employment to have a higher salary, it is clear that more valuable things need to be gained. It is our job here to create the box around which it will be done best. We do this through the seabed, and I don't always feel that the discussion about him is balanced. We do so by discussing in what ways we will do with our country's energy resources, which are opportunities. Each of us does not agree on whether more is to be activated or at any time. This is something we can get involved in. It doesn't mean standing here accusing one another of being upset and losing a pin if we can't even sit down on committees and talk things over. All of us should examine ourselves. We are responsible for the development of the enterprises and the economic environment in this country. We are responsible for creating an environment for the control of inflation so that it will become a real compensation that will remain and provide permanent reward for citizens and citizens of the country. That must be a common assignment for all of us. Should we not agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u60	A respectable president. Everything I wanted to say about it actually said why. Tenth. Smoke. S., Jón Þór Ólafsson. However, I must express my amazement at two talks presented today. One of them moved to the highest. Prime Minister and the sharp one. 7. Smoke. So, Guðlaugur Þórðarson. If I understood the best. Prime Minister right here is in good condition and things are getting better. It is normal after a complete financial collapse that things will improve, that there are few ways other than from the bottom of the matter, and that this trend has been present for the time of this government, not that it would matter to each person what to thank or to whom to teach in this context. However, the lack of solutions remains. We cannot face these strikes and pretend that these are just some misunderstandings on the part of the employee, that those who are going to strike are mistaken, and that they should just stay on this salary and live in the same terms and never be tempted, for example, to go abroad. That temptation is great today, especially in the young generation, especially among those who are raising good employment opportunities abroad, of course, which are mainly experts in various fields. It's a serious matter, and it's the responsibility of all of us, as we've learned here, that we're going to find solutions to the problem. That does not mean act like there is no problem. Furthermore, it does not always mean putting on merits as an excuse for doing nothing or at least extremely little. If Iceland's money policy is at the root of all this, if the reason we can't raise money in this country is money policy, we need a new money policy. Some in this room might point out that we may actually need a new currency. Something has to be done. We can't build Iceland's stability and money policy on the ground that only the selected few will get paid. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u61	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. It is true that a number of speeches have shown that income distribution has become evener after a crash. That's right. But what has happened, and the trend has been over the past decade and longer, is that the property of the people has increased inequities of the country, i.e. fewer and fewer have more and more. This article discussed how the people in the country needed real compensation. Consider why the people in the country are not comfortable with the situation. This is because they watch measures aimed at increasing this inequities. V.E.G. The prime minister says that it was only decided not to extend the electricity tax. He was temporary at first and was once extended, so it is his own decision not to press on to him. There were temporary measures, such as the wealth tax, when we were leaving the valley plain, normal. But when we consider this, we do not always point to the last government but ask the highest government. As we look in the face of increased economic growth, the prime minister feels that he is aware of this development. That's the news people in the country hear. We hear news of the exploits and how the industry escapes taxation, and it is natural for the people in the country to ask: Is it normal that the government's actions aim to lighten the load on these bodies? Then there is only hope that people will set standards. It's amazing, Mr. President, to hear such a thing. A member of the Independence Party, God-awful Guðlaug Þór Þórðarson, is speaking here as if it were just some political debate. This is a debate over big politics, how we change the interest we have from our resources, at least. Many of them, would like to belong to the nation. What does it mean to have the resources common to the nation? That people benefit from them in the same way. [[The president calls.]] These are the big things people in the country are discussing right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u62	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. Yet, a advocate for acknowledging, correcting his fellow rulers in the opposition, that inequities have not increased. Hv. In fact, a senator refers to the distribution of property, but nothing has had greater effect there for good, reaching back the level of property distribution, than the correction of this government. It seems odd. A senator has decided to look beyond the things I discussed earlier in my talk about the opportunities that exist and the potential now especially for improving the interests of those who are lazy. The reason is that the government simply cannot tolerate any criticism, does not tolerate the fact that it is being pointed out, that it has nothing to offer itself. I couldn't hear a single solution to the government's speeches, only continued innuendo and misinformation about the government, especially that. Yet, a scrutinizing was given to correct, to claim again that the government will prevent those who are inferior when the facts are quite different. Those with less benefit in Iceland and in the middle have never been as successful as it is today. That does not mean that there is a good condition, but that means that we can do even better than that, we must agree that there are opportunities and accept facts such as the fact that money is the greatest in Iceland and equalize it in income distribution has ever been measured. We have reason to keep this in mind because we don't want to throw this away with inflation contracts. What is the worst response to such a contract? They take on people primarily with intermediate and lower income because their employers can be the first to increase prices, those who negotiate specifically their terms may be first to increase their salary while those with the lowest salary have to follow. Inflation treats primarily affect those who have the worst interests at heart. And preventing inflation treats is primarily designed to protect the interests and positions of those who have compromised in the community. It is absurd for the government to downplay it because it's all about it, defending the position of those who have failed in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[For example: No solutions.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u63	Mr. President. I'm here asking for protection from unveiling people where I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister whether to present a bill during an ongoing assembly for a change in administrative law. The bill was in the Senate Constitution of the past council and was aimed at ensuring the protection of unveiled sources in line with the indications from the management group on the implementation of the Constitution of the protection of expression and information freedom approved at the General Assembly in 2010. Now this issue is not in the Government Constitution before that winter. I'd like to ask the highest. In view of the supreme situation, the prime minister of what caused it. The prime minister had already introduced the plans on the Ministry of Presidency Web to the bill for a change in administrative law. It was suggested that there be much clearer rules where the confidentiality of public employees would be more specific and the interests of silence should be guaranteed. The bill code included the requirement that the administration of state and rural society solely allow information to remain silent if it was necessary to protect certain government or private interests, which were to be counted in an exhaustive way in the arrangement. Under confidentiality, there should not be information on lawbreakers or other condemned conduct by government officials, who would mean that those involved could not be punished. This would ensure that so - called exposés would have increased legal protection. Actually, this is exactly what I have left of the highest. The prime minister himself, who answered my inquiry about this subject here about a year ago. Then the bill was to be submitted. Even so, you have a clear understanding that your bill can be delayed. The bill also did not find its way to the Government Constitution. This came as a surprise to me in view of the work that has been done, in 2010, as well as some legal adjustments have been adopted. I don't know any better than that work is still in charge. Secretary of education and culture, I don't know any better than that control team is still operating. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether this bill will be submitted. Then what would it be if it wasn't? What happened to the bill from the highest. The prime minister who was introduced online and we are excited to see?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking about important matters and opportunities to explain their status. At the Constitution of the Government for 143, a legislature was expected to contribute a bill to legalize a change in administrative law, No. 37/1993, just like a wind. A senator took care of it. In November 2013, the bill was presented to the Ministry's Web and sent to key stakeholders. Many reviews were received, and they were generally very positive, but they also received tips that needed to be considered. The bill was written in the wake of a lead group appointed to follow Generalis's conclusions. From June 16, 2010, a senator agreed that Iceland created a legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. Among other things, efforts would be made to strengthen freedom of expression, freedom of speech, information sharing, and freedom of release as well as the protection of sources and unveiled persons. A clear and simple law on confidentiality is one essential to the freedom of expression by public employees. It should be clearly defined as to which areas of public employees are free to comment on and about which state to remain silent. If the law is blurred or complicated, the danger is that employees are afraid to express themselves on matters that would be perfectly natural for them to express themselves. It has been noted that so far, there have been far more limited discussions about the freedom of expression by public employees than in other countries. The main ingredient of the discussion has often been whether or not the confidential and loyal duties of public employees limit their freedom of expression. In the United States, there are laws of silence as well as of appreciation that cause their application to be complex and to cease to be balanced and predictable. By means of a planned bill, there will be a much clearer set of rules, which will further enhance the scope of the confidentiality of public employees and the duty of silence to ensure it. As a result, it will be much more clear as to which areas of public employees are free to express themselves. The bill code includes the requirement that the administration of government and rural society solely allows the decision that the information of the lye of silence is necessary to protect certain public or private interests that will be considered in an exhaustive way in the arrangement. Under confidentiality, there will not be any information about lawbreakers or other extreme conduct by government officials. This means that those who communicate with them cannot be punished until they receive information about lawbreakers or other reprehensible conduct by government officials. This will ensure that the so - called exposed people will have increased legal protection. Rather than adding to silence, the primary objective of the bill is to ensure that the rules of silence become clearer, more consistent, and simpler. As I mentioned, the complex and vague rules of silence may make it difficult for public employees to use their freedom of expression and thus make it a key requirement for freedom of expression. A respectable president. The Ministry of Presidency is now working on a final check and waste on a requested bill and is aimed for a donation in the fall of 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u65	A respectable president. I just want to be right on the minute I've got to get involved in this inquiry and talk points out that last Thursday we said why. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir for a bill of informers, a total law that has been working since the last term, which embraces this party. It is a law of law that makes right protection for informers or unveilers and is one of the tools necessary for the tool of democracy. There have been events both at home and abroad that have shown us through the years. It is imperative that we agree to establish legislation on this matter, whether it is the overall law that we have presented in the lesser part of the council or the highest bill. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]] It must be possible to add to the work done there, but it is most important to get it done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u66	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter deserves to thank you for bringing this up, but thank you very much. Prime Minister for clearly explaining why the bill has not been submitted. I understood that this was because the tip was being taken into consideration, even though the reviews had generally been extremely positive. It is commendable that he has declared that the bill will appear in the following fall. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall has provided a very detailed bill on how to live for such laws. So do I. And at least we have options here, if the bill is at the top. Prime Minister does not go far enough. But I'd like to call to the attention of the U.S. Congress that we are here to discuss the bill of violations of financial markets. It suggests a group of people who were assigned to discuss the ideas of putting a special protection from financial informants. But it turns out, when you read that bill, you can't find it, you fell away, I want to draw attention to it. Hence, it does not seem to be at the highest level. The government is in a hurry to this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u67	A respectable president. It's about time we reminded ourselves of this strategy that it was adopted in 2010, it's been five years since, and you're getting a little impatient waiting for something to happen in this category. But I'm glad that there is a bill from the government on this subject, and as we have seen here, the future and the Piras have already been given a bill on the same subject. It is now a committee and will likely be able to use reviews of that bill in order to clear up the discussion in the autumn if the case is to be discussed. I'm sorry, I don't have more time to go into the subject of the bill materially, but I'm glad that there's something going on in this category because it's the best thing to do. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-100.u68	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. As I was involved in my case, this bill was started in the Presidency of the winter, 20123/42013, so, of course, one would have liked to see a bill appear a lot earlier, especially as a result of what I also mentioned, that it is based on a Congress resolution that was accepted in 2010. It's all been a long pregnancy, I have to say. However, answers were the highest. Minister well clear, i.e. That's a bill that comes out in the fall, but I encourage him to examine it as a bill. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall made a subject of his comment, i.e. Whether these legislation can even become complete, so that it is not limited to the public sector or administration, such as the highest bill. A minister assumes, but has greater influence.
