ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u1	Mr. President. I make my peace with this team because now it looks like, if it's up to the chairman of the budget board, that the Council's work plan is under way and 2rd. budget will not be due next week as planned. What we will see is that we are getting into high - quality time situations with the highest priority. The government has proclaimed that she is going to work many matters for Christmas licenses. V.E.G. Ministers have repeatedly called for more discipline and better practice, and I want to describe this concern here, asking if the highest. The president will take some action on this matter or will we now be sailing into the traditional time and urgency of the assembly by Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u2	In itself, the president has not been informed that 2rd will not be possible. Money is held up next week, but as with the media, it has been reported that it is not. Then we must look at the matter from that standpoint and see when it will be 2nd. Money can be done. However, everyone knows that according to the Council's work programme, the 3rd was expected to be covered. The money may be done a week later. If a large portion of the budget has been completed for the 2nd Environment. as it has often been, it is not necessarily necessary for a week to pass between discussions. This is a thing that the president and the prime committee need to consider when we have had the opportunity to figure out the position that may be coming up, but the president considers no reason to despair, even though this discussion will delay for a few days, and it is the determination of the president that in other ways a work programme can be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u3	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A president for these answers, and he certainly hopes that a work plan will be carried out, and he believes he will succeed. It is also sad to know that it is. A senator and the chairman of the legal committee told us yesterday at a meeting that we were allowed to know as soon as the majority of the initiatives were made. I didn't think it was in the media. I thought it would be in our possession of at least a private e - mail or a meeting of the branch office. It's a very pathetic, respectable president that this is the project. I also have to agree with this concern, but when it begins in September, it is surprising that the chairman of the budget board is not able to cover the job. She declared in the Senate the other day that she thought there was no reason to start Congress so early, that would be a reason to start it in October. I wondered where we would be if it had been. A respectable president. I'm the highest. A president to get answers from the highest. The secretary of finance how the situation works so that we can find answers to our questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u4	A respectable president. First to discuss the budget. I'm on a budget board with what? paritaprevir It's a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and I think that's right. President says, I think it's important to try to get as much of the budget as possible for 2nd. budget, that's what I've said at council meetings, and I've tried to take the weight of the change proposals and the rest of the 2nd. More than the 3rd. The important thing is that all of this is done well, and when it comes to the council, it is well prepared. Regarding whether the discussion is a day or two, I don't think it can be the end of the world, though it does. Then, with regard to many major matters before the council, this often happens here at Christmas. I saw in last night's discussions that people have a lot of heart to deal with. If the council has to increase its efficiency, I'm painless though we'll meet something tonight and even add a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u5	There's no problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u6	Developmental cooperation has been on the agenda, and there are other forms of waiting, public finances, and others. [[Up front.]] The person standing here is totally painless, though we may have a meeting for the evening or when Christmas is near. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u7	A respectable president. I thank the president for his Word and understand that it is his intention to review the impact this will have on the work programme, but in particular, I would like to be glad that the president stresses the success of a plan. It is important that the Council succeeds with good example and its plans succeed, and, of course, there is a problem now that 2rd is delayed. ... abundant. In fact, I thought that the chairman of the budget board made a special announcement in the General's symposium that the council came all too early in the fall. You must wonder, " If it is not possible to complete matters at the appointed time, how has the body of the Governing Body been handled? ' Of course, this is a special problem because many big cases are not there and would have had to use their time after 2nd. budgets for the management of six or seven primary housing products from the highest level. Ministers of society that have not yet arrived and many other matters, as we know. [[The president calls.]] But I'm glad that the President is going to take care of this position and process it so that we will maintain a work programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u8	Mr. President. It's hard to figure out what's in the advance. It is easy, however, to interpret a talk. paritaprevir The Ásmundur of Einar, the Daðason of Daad, once and again, to attack at the present moment. paritaprevir and the chairman of the Vigdís Hauksdóttir's budget committee foretold a few days ago. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson, who arrives here, says that it is of no importance now, although financial support may be for a day or two. But what was that? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir said here the other day? She said that the failure of the government had literally led to the failure of the terms of engagement, which resulted in a gathering of two weeks earlier in order to facilitate the financial work, saying: "The reason is simple, the case of the government did not come. Here goes the lady who said that the punk was still living in a full-scale educational committee, while at the same time suggesting that there were 50 cases missing from the government that had been offered. It is this lack of work, Mr. President, which is leading up to the fact that the council is not able to perform its main task of staging funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u9	To answer, Secretary of Economics and Economics and Internal Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u10	A respectable president. I direct my inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of the Interior Ólöf Nordal. During the past 16 months, I have been living in a rural society, which is attended by tourists. It's a day-to-day life, and the town's rhythm is about to take a lot of thought about providing them a place to stay. In fact, the words are so almost impossible to move to town, for rent houses and little to sell cannot be found. I think I can claim that most things that get out of bed for tourists. I give an example of a young man who told me that he and his family were the only ones who had a regular home next to his street. All the other houses have reached out for tourism. Of course, this gives people a special opportunity, but I don't think it's a lot of talk. It's supposed to be so happy to have all these tourists, isn't it? In fact, however, basic services are being impaired. No professional personnel can be obtained to provide additional services, e.g. Nurses and law enforcement, and this community is not an active midwife, an educated academic and professional counselor, or a psychologist. It's safe to say everything's stuck. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if these matters are being evaluated. Is there a study of how this growing tourist current affects the population of smaller rural areas in the country? And if so, are you looking for solutions to ensure that your basic services are working well?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u11	V.E.G. President. I don't quite have the responsibility in the government to handle travel services. However, it has to do with certain aspects of the local Ministry, especially when transport systems, law enforcement systems, and such factors involved in the Ministry of State are tested. We have noticed that the great flow of tourists has put great pressure on them. Then, in general, you can see that the tourism service varies from place to place. Like what? Yet, a senator rightly says that it has been a joyful addition to the economic situation in the country. It is safe to say that around the Horn of the Land and around the southeast corner of the country, there is a great stream of tourism because of its individual beauty. Today, in what is called the Management Board of Travelers, it is working to determine the impact of tourists on the economy in a larger context. We have been living for quite a while with the figures we have on this article that have been a bit fragile. That's when I'm talking about practicality and economy. It is important that there is a remedy, so that we are careful about what this article will reveal in society, where we will find ourselves in crisis, and what we need to do better. Then I have stressed that we do not look so narrow on the article but that we view all the ways in which we hear, all the infrastructure, transportation, health care, and law enforcement. Of course, that is part of it. A senator here refers to the imminent lack of housing. I think there's a great need for such work to be done. That's what's been won, and hopefully that job will be good for us to make further plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u12	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. V.E.G. Minister is also the minister of rural politics, and this is a huge group of paintings, starting to touch a number of rural areas in the country. They're 74 today, and they're getting hit on this, and that's how I like to say it. These factors need to be taken seriously by the General Assembly. It's not just a policy, it's about the basic quality of the public in the country. This is a concern, and I encourage not only Ministers but all members of Congress to look into these matters and consider that we will find a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u13	V.E.G. President. It is no doubt that this article is very important to the development of the rural areas. I think it's very important to attract rural society and the European Union. Farmers in many parts of the country have approached us at the Ministry of Internal Affairs to review various localities. Of course, this is one of those issues. That's why I think it was important for the European Union to come directly to the work I referred to earlier, that it is at the same table with the government and the tourism itself to link these different parties together. In this regard, I think it's quite clear that states and rurals have to go to rhythm when it comes to such a big new business we want to maintain here. We don't want to get caught in something that's gonna cause it to bounce back. We want to maintain it, although we may not expect anyone to have the full future of the line, which is not necessarily desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u14	Mr. President. I'll take a little bit of the ball from the last speech. Now we face this situation, knowing that the status of the state funds has improved substantially, which, of course, is positive, despite miscalculations from financial contributions. Meanwhile, a large part of the community lives on a very difficult business. The world's population got worse last year, the A-part particular, and a lot of rural communities are staying up to getting money from the B-part. It has just been made a bargain, and we all know that the share of pay in rural business is far higher than the comparable in government management, so that high-paying elevations, of course, are more likely to occur in the pockets of rural society than in the state. A community and a state only has their pockets on the same pants, and that's how we need to think about it and get close to it. We are all doing our best in the country in rendering service. For example, running a small nursing home is very difficult, but we have the right to have our old people at home and to serve them in their homes. We want to keep doing it. They had entered the tourism service and made money from it. This matter needs to be considered. That's why I'd like to direct a few questions to the highest level. Secretary of the budget: What is the highest attitude? Secretary of finance to the challenges of the rural communities to strengthen their income - farms? Do negotiations allow for changes in income between state and rural society? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u15	Mr. President. This question is very important, and I agree with the viewpoint referred to here, that we should view this as a service to the inhabitants of the country, to what is done by the State and to the local community on the other hand. In that sense, it is likely that from time to time, a person might wonder how to exchange income from taxes. In general, concern is that the overall results of Part A are negative. It is generally negative about the same amount of money, and government funds are positive. This is a measure of concern, especially when we look to where we are in the economy. There's been economic growth year after year, and the overall result for the public is virtually zero, i.e. The rest, and that's the worry. On the other hand, when we consider individual rural areas, we see an enormous variety in the management industry. This depends largely on the size of the rural communities, but this is not a definitive measure because there are also small rural areas that have much to do, with a very high income on the individual population. This may be the most characteristic of the rural communities that are in most trouble because they are relatively small. We have a conversation with the European Union about this position and a meeting will be held in my Ministry today, where these matters are being planned. We cannot say that we have agreed to change the money exchange, but we are certainly going to sit down with our communities and analyze this problem, try to better identify where the root of the problem lies, and, of course, we will listen to the viewpoints that the communities have to offer. [[The president calls.]] I think it's characteristic of the situation as to how different it is in this rural group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I could not understand them, though, but that there was nothing necessarily fixed in the pipes a hand was on to improve the survival of the rural society. Granted, discussions are clearly in progress, and that is well done. Yet, that does not change our view of a very difficult situation in many parts of the earth. Of course, it's a lot of societies, and they're different, but I reiterate that this needs to be considered, and it needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u17	Mr. President. In his previous inquiry, a prosecuting offer came to the point that the cost of paying was burdensome for rural society beyond what was valid in the state. I believe that with the long - term changes in the arrangement of collective agreements, which are now being worked out, there will be ways to meet the challenge. There is no question about it, rural society has a heavy pay raise. Actually, we're talking about paying ups that don't exist. That's the situation. Does this mean that we need to make changes in income exchange? I'm not convinced of that. I could go on like this, for example, talking to people about how we can reduce our growth in the country. It will benefit the communities. Many are in debt and find it difficult to cover high interest costs. Ergo, if we manage to reduce growth in the country by building for stability, it will improve the state of our rural society. That's what you could do. Some of the local community's proposals are focused on taking part in the government's income, others turning toward other forms, such as increasing income institutions, being granted the authority to accept taxes or expenses that are reserved for today. [[The president calls.]] This does not necessarily mean that the State will take over and deliver its societies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u18	Mr. President. Since one of the basic obligations of the State is to ensure the inner and outer security of the citizens, it is of utmost importance that the dignified meeting that has been given will be reflected when legal laws are determined each year to fulfill this basic obligation. We are one of the few nations of the world that resides with civil institutions primarily within and outside security. There is civil safety with international cooperation in the Atlantic and the United States, but internal safety is primarily police and then national protection. In recent years, law enforcement has been very visible. It's time we shared in rebuilding the police. Today's morning paper shows Jón Bjartmarz that there is a substantial need for money, a lack of equipment, and a need for a higher number of police officers. So I want to direct that question to the highest level. The Minister of State whether it does not have reason to believe that the budget and the budget will meet the wishes that legal services will be reinforced significantly next year and in the coming years, investing in all equipment for the police and a significant increase in the number of policemen will already be in the coming year and the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u19	President. There is no question about how important the law is in this country, both in a wider sense of security and in the case of national law enforcement in this country. We've been trying to make up for what we've been able to do in recent years on law enforcement. We can see, because of the extent of the expansion that is growing here, that much more needs to be added. Then, not only are we talking about what is being done in law enforcement but we are also discussing new assignments. We discussed this earlier in the field of inquiry about travel services. Indeed, the tremendous increase in tourists brings pressures to the police and in a way that we do not know from the past, since we are talking about tourists spreading around the country, which means that law enforcement in the country must also be viewed, not just by law enforcement in Reykjavík. The Ministry is now in the processing of a law enforcement program. They'll try to explain the exact need of the police. There are a number of factors to consider: It's the service stage. Where does it need to be? What is the scope? It's the safety level and we'll look to it in a broad context, e.g. A border check we really need to watch very much. We don't know what pressures will be along the border in the near future. The need for a person is determined by the service and safety level. Finally, how much money do we need? I'm sure that once we come up with clear ideas about this, the Congress's support will be complete. When it comes to law enforcement, I have sensed that it is important for the council to be corrected from law enforcement conditions. I'll try as soon as I can to find more money to contribute to law enforcement. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure the council will accompany me on that journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for clear answers. I reiterate that I feel the need to reflect on the decisions made by the General Assembly, when the budget is administered each year to each of the basic obligations of the State. One basic obligation is to maintain strong inner and outer security for the people. I don't always feel like being reflected when the Allied Congress repays money because there are times when money is being spent on less minor projects and even vain. I challenge Congress to change that practice. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the state at last: When can we expect a government law enforcement program to be prepared by the Ministry so that the council can take a complete and realistic discussion on this important matter that all of us are concerned with? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u21	V.E.G. President. The legal programme will be a part of a larger plan called the Court's Correctional Programme, under which there are plans for the best of matters and for other measures in the entire judiciary system and the legal system. I expect this plan will appear to us in the spring council. I have stressed that work on her will be speeded up as far as possible because of the discussion here and increasing the pressures of law enforcement. It is clear that we cannot cope for a long time with such a new assignment. So we stress that this work is moving fast and fast. Of course, it also counts as a quality and a basis for future law enforcement. What a key to success! I have full faith that this work will provide us with a better basis to organize legal matters for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u22	A respectable president. V.E.G. A financial minister has been working to reduce tolls and tolls on various necessities that directly affect the household expenses. Substitution tax changes have also been made on matching products. If I recall correctly, the value tax on condoms, diapers, diapers, and diapers has been reduced, however, than the tax on female bandages and tampons has been untraced to 24%. I agree with the women who ask, "Why am I being taxed? So I ask the highest. Ministers to each of these seats and whether or not it's being worked in his Ministry to reduce these taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u23	Mr. President. The changes cited were looked for relief for family families, and this was consistent with some other groups of products that flud when diapers were added to the lower tax. At that time, we put much emphasis on making young people who realized that the most difficult was for all to achieve an easy goal. For further changes in the valuable tax system, our main work has been to reduce the size and simplicity of the system. We took a very big step when we changed the general step to 24% with the big system change earlier during this terms. This brought the general step down to the lowest level it has since the introduction of the cost tax system. We also made changes in the lower level by increasing it, and we are entering the lower steps of various groups that are excluded. For the products that are asked about, lady ties, tampons, and things like that, it would be so easy to keep listing things that would be nice to keep in a lower level of worth taxation, when we are faced with the question: Do we want to have general steps and few reserves or are we going to have some two-step system where we even place these on the steps? My opinion is that we should have a strong value tax system and try to reduce the differences between the steps, reduce the number of accessions, accept into the system a variety of objects such as group traffic cars and those that are entering the system now, e.g. tourism provider. It will allow us to reduce the bones of taxes, such as the income tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u24	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. If I understand correctly, these products are not being used to reduce worth taxes. Then I'd like to ask from the top. The minister says, "Don't stand up, just by lowering the higher steps, and by raising the lower steps, that there remains one step? Has the minister changed his mind, or is that working? When it comes to helping children's families, I think it's one of the goods that comes to do the most, because it's a product that mothers use very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u25	Mr. President. That is exactly how so much has fallen under the category of merchandise. Various childhood products, e.g. Children's carts, if they don't come from countries where we had double tax agreements, have fallen to customs. So we've made a fundamental change by removing all the general goods and by the step we were now proclaiming, removing all tolls except those found on food, we're actually taking the historical step that is so far, perhaps hundreds of times higher than to pick out one or two groups of goods and saying, "We're moving these two goods between the values of taxes. " Otherwise, I'd like to say in general about the worthy tax level: it's not a perfect job and it's never going to be perfect. This structure can never be completed. You can always find products in the upper step that might be in the lower level as well as some that can be said about the same things in the lower stages, why shouldn't they be in the upper step? [[The president calls.]] We are left with this as a kind of imperfect task that can be held with endless opinions. [[The president calls.]] My long-term vision is one of the valuable tax points. I'm gonna be realistic. I don't think it's support at the council to take one step at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u26	Mr. President. With the modified education policy adopted by 2015, the number of restrictions was set out for book students in high school who have reached 25 years of age. The number of students has decreased by 47 per year, i.e. approximately 40%. Schools did not refer to students who were in the study in 2014, but most were rejected by new applications. In fact, not many of them received, for the message was clear: Students were not welcome to high school. The cost of students is multiplying. The government pays the equivalent amount for students in the private schools and book students in the secondary schools, as shown in the 2012 Annual Review Report and a recent follow-up report. Students need to complete 140 high school units or equivalent studies of the 200 minimum required for a student's test at the time of study. Substitution clinics offer preschool, which pays students at a further hundred thousand dollars, while high school fees are about 17 points. K. - Okay. - Okay. Offices for education also receive a contribution from the state's funds. In effect, by the number of restrictions, the state is strengthening a threefold school system for higher education, ongoing education centers, primary classes at college, and public school. So I ask the highest. Budget and economic secretary whether he believes that the school policy will bring long and shorter benefits to the state and whether it is a case of effective management and community policy in the spirit of independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u27	Mr. President. This is a matter for which the Minister of Education has answered many times. It is true that this is the time for a change in policy that the government has made. The basic thought is that we have lacked funds behind each student in the high school system. We've also seen that the courses of high school and all basic education until college are incomplete when we compare ourselves with the OECDs, northern countries, or other people we're used to comparing ourselves to. It has taken us longer to get students to college than it has been for those in the controlled nations. This is what we're dealing with, including by setting the 25 - year rule, saying: "We are going to last to set priorities for those 25 years of age or older. For that group, there are other options. If that is what you think of, youths 16 years of age get into the high school system into the straight following from high school such as those who are ten years older or more in a different way. What should those 25 years of age or older do if you think about the matter in this context - into school with teenagers? Surely we can find more options and other ways. A client introduced several of them, a university bridge, Keisis reeducation, and a perpetual education center. Special funds have been put into these measures to enable students of this age to complete a student test and then continue their studies. In some cases, there is room for these students in their schools. As a result of this change of pace, the primary goal is to ensure that the funds offered for the high school system are used to teach those whom we would like to put first in that school phase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u28	Mr. President. Granted, it can be reasoned that it is better for students to have a similar age in high school, but it is a matter of legacy, professional and financially, to keep students from getting access to public schools. This also results in fewer students studying. In particular, mass restrictions on the inhabitants of the country are affected. There are many examples of people who, after 25 years of age have taken student tests in high school in their hometowns, have applied them to university education, and are now engaged in many activities in rural areas throughout the country. That possibility is no longer available. While the number limitation rate for both sexes is affected, there are other examples of women who go this way to complete their teachers'studies and studies in nursing and to do their homework. Their work and education are a lot of trust in the community, and I ask the highest. Budget and economic secretary how this education policy conforms to the new marketing programme at the highest level. Governments on gender economy and funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u29	Mr. President. We prophets and I agree that options need to be available for this group. But it is well known, e.g. in the North, there's only a limited amount of time left to finish the college. When we face the challenge that those who have completed the basic study do not do so on 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, and 25 years, in 10 years, that they have failed to complete a training course that we are now trying to pursue, perhaps we should ask ourselves, " What is wrong with the system? ' What resources should we have in our toolbox to meet the needs of this group and ensure that we can continue to study if we wish to do so? We should not ask: " How can we add money to the high school system that is supposed to be a continuation of basics and thus dilute the funds available to each student? That must have been the main problem. This education policy will ensure that we will have more money to meet the needs of those whom we will put first in the high school system, and this has been one of the main causes of complaint in high school. [[The president calls.]] Then, of course, we need to have other resources for other groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u30	Mr. President. Yesterday we discussed the subject that we will begin a discussion again, and a very clear request was made. Councilmen of the government's stand to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs would be at the discussion. The reason was that it was thought that he needed to be asked about what is stated in the reviews. In Iceland, for example, the public relationship is to be a direct disintegration of the report with the bill. This need to be explained, and it cannot be expected. The head of the State Department can inform us about this but only the one responsible for the report. In addition, Mr. President, this debate is made up of statements made by a longtime senator and a respected man. paritaprevir For the reason that the bill that seems unassailable is in the management team, the son of Jónasson insists that the bill is behind a political horse market between the tops. The minister of the State and the Independence Party, who aims to disqualify another particular issue, against the proselytism of this case. [[The president calls.]] It's necessary to get to the top. Secretary of State will explain this, and only he can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u31	A respectable president. When it is so that only one of 63 members of Congress has a conviction, while dozens of members of Parliaments have high doubts, this only senator with conviction for the matter is, in effect, to the highest degree. The minister of the ministry of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is at the hearing so that there is someone to speak to the case, because there is no member of the Independence Party and no member of the Convention who has no convictions for the matter, of course, we have been allowed to hear in this discussion for days. It's very strange that the case is being run on the program day after day in the absence of the highest order. The minister of foreign affairs must raise questions as to whether it is so urgent to complete the case so that the changes in the government that have been proclaimed can be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u32	President. I agree with my party brothers who have spoken under these forces before that it is kind of unacceptable to resume this discussion without even the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs is here to give an answer to this matter. You can't be expected to do that. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir answers for him in this. When this was discussed in the last spring, she was not on the committee, and reports are that the matter was not discussed in the committee today and that the matter was not discussed. Thus, it cannot be expected that it will be able to give an answer to the criticism presented in the discussions on this bill. I'd like to ask the highest. President if we're expecting the highest power. Secretary of state here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u33	It has been reported to the highest level. Secretary of state is from out of town and is even. meetings that have been very well advertised here from the General speaking chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u34	Mr. President. I said it yesterday, and I think there's a reason to say it again that we reached an excellent compromise and a good conclusion on nature protection. There's a very controversial case here. I think there's a reason to try to see if there's any conclusion to this rather than having it here in such disunited terms. This is a big, big deal, and far more important than our 63th - century senators. It is worth remembering that we are here at the least - people in the world who need help. I find it very important for a minister to take the initiative and the manhood that he is willing to sit down and see if a successful solution is possible. If he's not here to talk to us and answer the questions that have been raised, new questions from his point of view, I think we should postpone the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u35	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the last speaker. As we discussed last night, we know that many large questions remain as few as possible. Secretary of state can answer. Mr. President has announced that he will not come here today, so it is clear that they will still be asking questions and will still be discussed all day. So I think this is a good suggestion, and I agree that the matter will be decommissioned and taken into account. As mentioned earlier, we have what. Cross - political compromises caused larger issues, and this should also be possible. It's a matter of the General's having it in this suit for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u36	A respectable president. This is a second issue. A minister was present at 1st. The point was the first time it was brought up. Congress is holding this case. This case was released from the government, out of the administrations, from a foreign - language committee, with a greater part of the committee at both this council and the last legislation. [[Up front.]] Those who say that the matter is not political support will see the outcome in favor of this when the number of government opposers on the rosary have finished their talks and respond to each other as we saw yesterday. Then we'll get this case for a vote. We'll see if there's political support behind it. But because they were talking about political horse weddings, it's kind of plain that it comes from a what? paritaprevir Össur's Aphrodin Skarphéðinsson, who wrote just an entire book on a political horse trade here during the last term. There's no political wedding in this case. This is a matter held before the council, and it is also done during the last assembly, awaiting 2nd. We get smart and there's a vote, and then we get to see if there's political support or not. However, this will not happen until the government's opposition to itself ceases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u37	The Honorable President. I'm here to say what's been said about whether you can't get the highest. The minister of state to recognize the issues involved here and inconsistencies in the council on this matter, and the members of Parliament now agree, as has happened several times, and is of great value to the council. I'll take the example of the energy program, which was enormously shaking. As a result, the committee became a transnational reconciliation. The case was corrected, and a recent example of nature's protection is available. I think it is, and it should be a symbol of the changed times of the General with regard to the Commission that when we are persecuted here, as it has been shown in this great dispute, the council must show the council that the cause is at the Council and consider the case. For example, a recent review of ASI points to misinformations in the minister's bill and minister's bill must be answered for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u38	Mr. President. The fact is, the highest. Secretary of State is afraid to represent his case here. He does not have the courage to try to reason on the matter because he does not have any. When he called for the servants of the TSSI and told them these things, they were terrified: Why? What reasons do we have for putting down an exemplary organization? The humble answer given at the meeting of the foreign committee was made clear. Minister would have been, I don't need logic. Mr. President. It may well be at the top. A president feels that it is acceptable to the council's respect to the Supreme Court. The minister of the state is at a meeting and a framing of expansives across the country without performing his solemn duties. On the other hand, I draw the highest attention. That's what the president is supposed to do. Secretary of state has no alibi. If he does not have documented alibis, he should be at his job. He's not supposed to be messing around. He's supposed to come here and stand up for his case. There have been accusations that the matter is based on political horse purchases. [[The president calls.]] No one can answer that question but him and he should be concerned with the matter and be informed whether it is right or right. paritaprevir That's what happened to Jónasson last night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u39	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm surprised. This is one of the U.S. Democratic Organizations and I think it's a very incorrigibly incredulous procedure. The lack of transparency in this case makes me feel like it's coming through. Here, a member of the United States was talking about the opposition to the government, but it may also be to try to shed light on the matter. There is no one in the hall from the board to give an answer. How is an informed discussion to be conducted? A council is not the only one on the boat, it's being watched. The public demands an answer and a discussion to form an opinion, and it is the duty of members of Congress to give the discussion so that the public can form an opinion. I cannot form an opinion of this matter. I can't hear the other arguments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u40	President. I wonder why I'm talking about it. Einar ItDaðason all right, but we don't know what's going on in those meetings. We can't hear anything from the fine people who have taken it out of the government and put it out of the government. So, it just sits here and doesn't say bofs, and it makes us less concerned that we're worried that one of the best institutions in the country that might be doing one of the most basic things we normally do in this country for poor nations. What a delightful prospect it is if there is just a business to be done in the government and something to be put out of a government group and people never want to say what they think in a Senate hall! [[The president calls.]] What kind of democracy is it, and what tradition does the young senator Daðason Hædsson represent here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u41	Mr. President. I feel very sad about this sort of case, which is about how one of the world's richest nations is going to be involved in developing cohesion aimed at helping the poorest countries in the world to build up their own gardens, that it should only be done by a minister saying something to 1st. about the matter and being so absent despite the fact that his presence is called after him here and then should only be subject to votes at last without a serious discussion. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir called for the debatt. We need the reasons why we're wrong. The members of the greater part are willing to support this matter. Why don't they talk to us here? I called for it and I'll do it again now. The General has just shown that big business agreements can be reached. I think the committee should take this case back to themselves and cooperate with the minister. I'm sure everyone needs something to counter their requirements there, but that's how I feel we have to handle such a big, delicate matter. [[The president calls.]] This isn't how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u42	A respectable president. The democracy appears to be defined at the council today that the greater portion should yield to the issues of government policy. That's not the way it is, Mr. Honorable President. Like what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason went over it as the vote on the matter matter mattered. This does not mean that I take certain matters lightly. For example, I rejoice that it was exemplary to see that a financial bill was settled from a financial committee. All members of the council held except left green except for the members of the council. Congress is based on the fact that ministers come in 1st. and tore up the matters before the council, then they go to the committee, followed by the council. That's the way it is now. Here's 2nd. The matter, as well as the council, is to discuss it and to vote on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u43	A respectable president. I don't understand the intense excitement that's in the position of command. What I did earlier was to come up here because, in part, there was only one member of the United States Congress who supported it. I was pointing out that in order to get a point in the 2nd. The Senate needs them to have passed the government. They need to have passed both sides of the government. The hearing was given at the last assembly, and it went to the Foreign Affairs Committee. [[Up front.]] It was settled from the State Department of State at the last Parliament and again, with the majority support from the Foreign Affairs Committee, which is considered to support the case both during the last council and at this council. A respectable president. When this is the case, and there are differing opinions, it is democratic to vote for them. It will reveal whether more things are involved or not. [[The president calls.]] Then it becomes clear whether the claims of the United States Council members of Congress are not supported by this case. What are they afraid of? Why do we oppose ourselves in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u44	A respectable president. I have to say, I was surprised, which doesn't happen often, but I'm kind of speechless. Secular democracy is a matter of offering reasons for what is being said. That's what this institution, General, is for. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. That's the main role of the senators. That's what you're elected to do. You are here working for the common people who are worthy of discussion and reasoning and who deserve to know what the evidence is or opposed. [[Up front.]] If it doesn't exist here, the public has the opportunity to form an opinion, not on a committee. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u45	V.E.G. President. I agree with the criticism presented here to the highest degree. The minister of the minister of the minister of state should make a press conference to the west on the beach and a press conference at the Red Sea tonight over the fact that he is here to support his case and reason and to have a conversation with us and to answer the questions immediately. The minister was here at 1st. but who didn't participate in the discussion, once in return came up and lived. [[Up front.]] The case has been given government therapy, says why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. So it was also with the transport program, but then a change was made, and the Parliament did not agree to accept the changes with increasing funds for a transport program that is nothing. What happened with that? It came up. Here today, in unsubstantiated inquiries, two ministers of the Independence Party were. Where were the Prime Ministers of the Refugee Party? Any other meetings? Are they all out of the country somewhere and not caring for congregational duties? A respectable president. The person here should have been at the big, large, transport conference in his district of Akureyri. I think I'm gonna have to skip that conference and do my political duties because I'm having a follow-up session where I'm moving a new proposal from my committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be better for those in attendance to work in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u46	President wants to say so because of a word. A senator at the highest. The social and housing minister was going to be here for an unsupervised period today, but it was found to be ill this morning and could not be contacted and replaced with another minister with such a shame in advance. V.E.G. A fine example of attendance on such programs has been provided for a social minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u47	Mr. President. I don't like this language to leave something in the smaller part. It's not about giving in to the smaller parts like what's wrong. The chairman of the budget committee said so earlier. It is not just a minister's job to swaddle a case and then send them to the council. As we have seen, there may be events, such as those discussed in the discussion. I wondered what inhibits the communication between the major segments, whether the representatives of the greater part do not think that this could lead to faster discussions if they are involved, if they know better, if they can answer the questions that have been raised. The minister has spoken 36 minutes in the case from the beginning, 36 minutes, of which nine were in the transmission address, just to be said. This case has been talked for a long time because it is important and it is serious. I wondered, because of what. The chairman of the legal committee spoke earlier, saying that the General Accounting has measured this institution's balance and has said that it is one of the best trained institutions in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that not something we would like to take into consideration when looking at matters and institutions on the council? When it comes to the budget? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I agree with what has been said about public financial matters. [[The president calls.]] The situation was greatly corrected, despite the fact that not everyone eventually made the decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u48	A respectable president. I want to start by saying thank you for the most excellent presentation the Agency has ever had in this team for the President's Conference Board. There's a lot to be and a lot to do. Secretary of State is in his district of meetings and meets his voters, who are related to members of Congress. [[Up front.]] He has already given the council this case, which is about to take on a big case here. A respectable president. I got a whole new explanation for what democracy really means. Yes, democracy seems to translate today from the council to the lesser part. It's a pretty strange, casual interpretation. It calls for communication and for the members of the council to appear here and express themselves in the matter. A respectable president. Here is freedom of speech, and these members of Parliament take up whatever they want. I'm very against speech. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the memory of the section has no reason to call for members of the board to surface if they have nothing more to say about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u49	V.E.G. President. I had not realized that I would be so small, but here came the council leader of the Union earlier and said that no candidate had any convictions in this matter. I say again: I just didn't know that I was so invisible, because I already described my opinion on this matter and I already described my support for it. Speaking of the development of the case, I have to inform them that after a hearing, when this case was taken out of the foreign press committee the other day, a good administrative director came and made his opinion on this matter. I can tell you right here that if I hadn't been completely convinced that this was a good case and a cleaning and a need for land and people, this fine government manager would have convinced me completely about what this case is good and why we should agree with it. I believe that if it's the government's will, it's just a matter of how this case has been handled here during conquistancy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u50	Mr. President. I reiterate my request, and more who have spoken under this point before me, that we take this matter out of the program. Clearly, many questions remain unsettled. It is not clear whether there is a misunderstanding and that the matter is based on a weak foundation that it will not lead to the future. So I reiterate the suggestions that have been presented here that we take the matter out of the program. After a talk or two. paritaprevir In the past, Vigdís Hauksdóttir may well consider whether this might be the case. Councilmen who support the highest order. A government may be in such a way that the Senate work will not be successful as long as such conduct is given to this public speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u51	A respectable president. The situation is, in effect, incomprehensible. So here it is. The Minister has spoken a total of this case for 36 minutes. That's all. He is not able to answer basic questions, and when followed, the council is ignored, which has become a burden on the government. It seems reasonable to conduct at the International Parliament that ministers shrug off their shoulders and ignore the council. Why is there a request for a minister in this discussion? This is because there are very serious questions and perplexing opinions. It's minimal at the top. Minister, come here. I demand the President to request the Minister for the discussion. If it doesn't work out, we'll have to postpone her until the Minister can, for the sake of the other party and the company, come here to discuss the matter with the council. It's just that something else is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u52	Mr. President. I want to agree with the last speaker that it is of utmost importance. Ministers come here and answer any questions that remain. I've previously pointed it out, and I'd like to reiterate, that I also feel very important that the minister is present 2nd. because the case is subject to him and to his ministry. The suggestion is to put down a development research agency and bring the whole category into the Ministry of Ministers. As a result, I feel crystal clear that the minister should be here and participate in the discussion. Because of what to say. paritaprevir Vigdís the daughter of Hauksdóttir, before it should be remembered that it is the new democracy. Now democracy may not go out to the less part of it, but the less part may have access to, and may have its own to say. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. As members of the Icelandic Parliament, we can do so much, much better than we are doing and demonstrate in this matter. [[The president calls.]] But all of us need to unite in doing better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u53	A respectable president. We have an excellent example from the last election that the council will take action when a minister comes with a lack of preparation, ill - prepared, and unwise speech to the council. Of course, we have an example of the natural pass that only occurred in a ditch because it was a question of delinquency. But we also have cases of the highest. the secretary, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, the Environment and Resource Minister at the time, gave an unprecedented case about destroying a four-year nature protection law. It was averted. Who put it off? It was the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders that acted out the matter under a parapolitan flag and in an effort to reach a good material conclusion on the matter. We're in a similar position right now. Here comes a minister with a bad case. There is no one here who is inspired by the case. The Council is to take action if the minister is to ignore the matter. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, is to demonstrate what is in it, take the case, and show the new politics that she has repeatedly spoken for, which is about calling all voices to the table of such a delicate case under which it stands. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u54	President. I must begin by expressing my dissatisfaction with the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, is not present. It has been said that this matter is his special imagination and government officials of the State Department, and it cannot be expected. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs, responds to the opinions presented here. It was not for the State Department during the last term when this case was discussed and when the reviews were sent. She cannot be expected to be in that role, and she has not been, she has been around at times, and sometimes she has not, but she has not seen any reason to address the matter, rather than any other member of the government. A respectable president. It is almost scary to hear how government officials here speak of cases being taken out of government and out of government groups, but they do not come to explain to us those who do not see what light is in this case, so to speak, each light is, and what is the reason for the case, and what will be better involved in the development work that we do and help if this organization, where the people who are best at work, will be put down. In fact, this also shows an abuse of power that has already been observed by this government and has been over here. We don't need to recall how the government has been in the European affairs where elected agents and ministers have just gone back to what they said in a campaign and thought they don't have to ask a king or a priest. This is very serious. It's a serious matter that the government and the Supreme Court. A minister in this case allows himself to treat the council, as we do. I'm going to use most of the committee's opinion, where most of the important things are presented, and try to explain my opinion. Thus, the development of Iceland's development cooperation has been developed and is now being reduced by the so - called two - side development team for Iceland's co - member states and contributes about 40% of Iceland's contribution to the seminary. In turn, there are 60% of the contributions from the Ministry of State. It is the work that goes on through international institutions. Now it has been stated that the first thing that seems to happen to a new minister of foreign affairs when they enter the Ministry is that the officials, who consider the greatest national authority and the most urgent of all that is needed in the foreign affairs of the nation, are putting down a development organization and bringing all the projects into the Ministry of State. So far, all foreign ministers have resisted this attack by the officials. This is not happening, and that's why this bill is submitted. Sometimes I let myself imagine the highest. A foreign minister who at times shows that he is a man of reason was too far off when he realized how bad this was and therefore did not allow time to turn aside from this path. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs arranged for the best man, Þórir Guðmundsson, to evaluate these matters. In his preliminary report, Þórir wrote about three benefits regarding the future development process. First of all, the development of a development research agency plunged into the Ministry of State and became part of a developing research agency. Second, the organization would remain unchanged, but there would be a direct transfer between the Developmental Cooperation Agency and the Ministry of State. Third, developing cohesion agencies take on the key roles of the development network and the issues published in international cooperation at the Ministry also played a role in the development community service. That was the three questions Þórir wondered about. He then, in effect, suggested that this way be a conclusion to the development of a research agency. In his report that he was an employee of the Red Cross of Iceland, Þórir Guðmundsson mentioned it specifically, and it is the very Red Cross that is involved in this international cooperation. Then I understood that he was saying that it was hard for him to take away their glasses. He and the Red Cross felt successful in cooperating with the State Department and therefore he says, "Why shouldn't everything be there? " But to the State Department, there have been other viewpoints. They have been observed by key experts in these topics, including the U.S. Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir, who is one of the chief scholars in the country. She's full of shit in a review that she writes for the University of Iceland's Social Sciences. It suggests that a developing cohesion agency will be strengthened rather than decomposed. During the winter coverage of the committee, social science has not been called upon to review this opinion again, and that is, naturally, amazing. It is also surprising that in the report with the bill, the only reason to present all assignments in the Ministry of State is that it established a special development network, which was some organizational change in the Ministry of State. This has become the basis for laying down this expert organization, which is being given very good comments from all over the world. It is well recommended at the DiaC, the OECD development team, at the National Reexamination Board, that it be included in the institutions of the country that are best handled with financial resources. Yet the secretary of state says, "We are going to destroy this institution. " DAC says that it is right for the government to evaluate the total organization and development teamwork based on the degree of success and efficiency that is guaranteed. Icelanders should decide what is best for them. All of a sudden, there is reason to reason on the matter, that should change everything because the whole issue is being considered as a whole. Also, it had been decided that in 2016 a so - called peer - called release at the Evolution Cooperative Institute would be carried out. However, since there is all the likelihood that the Development Agency will be very successful in this equal effort, it needs to be promptly resolved before the assessment is completed. The report on the bill is climbed on terms such as efficiency, efficiency, coordination and harmonization, and the management of problems and biplicity. When further research is made, there should be no saving, no staff reduction, and a question asked, the minister says that the development community is very efficient. As I told you before, it also shows in the review of the National Reexamination of the Agency. This whole thing is full of enigmas. There's a huge amount of money going on on developing projects, though they ought to be bigger and the contributions have been decreased, and it's in the opinion that the State Department officials want to get all this money into the Ministry because they may be able to move more between the various projects that the Ministry is doing. We also know what we have here that the State Department of State has suffered a massive cut in this terms, especially during the first two years when it seemed like the Ministry of State and the Supreme Ministry. Foreign Ministers would be harassed, especially by the chairman of the budgetary committee. It was cut down more than elsewhere, and at times you feel that some of the progressive ones are afraid of the world around you. There is another danger in these matters when the case is moved by experts in the Developmental Research Institute to the Ministry of State, but it is an attempt to return to the time when countries tried with their evolutionary projects to squeeze themselves into, view evolution projects as a method of trampling themselves and companies in their countries. That looked good. Everyone who studies these matters and knows something about them now calls it a primitive practice. This is likely to happen when all these projects are placed in the same pot that would then be the State Department. It is better for the State Department to cross policy in cooperation with the Council, against where we are going to go in these areas, and then to enforce that policy. There is a much clearer and more modern approach than is recommended here. At the end of my speech, I would like to come in only to what I had discussed in 1st. on this subject, which is related to the forming of a special development team member. The secretary is to appoint representatives of it and four - year - olds. I'm going to draw attention to what I've done here before that in this committee, among other things, there should be five members of the Generals. Today, there are six members of Congress at the General Assembly. There could be more. Is it to be such that in this development team - you would have thought that developing cooperation in general would be an example of something that all classes should have and could work together to - have one body of members, based on today's situation, should not be represented there? To vote for this five-man teamwork committee, for example. Is it chosen by the bank council, where representatives of the clans and generals reflect more of a share in the Council? I think it's totally incomprehensible. Hv. Jónasson An earlier discussion suggested that it was enough to reevaluate the administration of all of this evolutionary cooperation, that we were content to do so. Not laying down one of the best institutions in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u55	President. I thank a senator for a very interesting review of the case I'd like to say is a bit of an unpleasant matter. It's very special to witness such tactics here in the first few days of my visit. I know why. A senator is tested in this work and has been here a while, including of the Foreign Affairs Committee. That's why I want to talk to you. A senator asks her: " How does she measure this matter according to her own experience, and what does it lead to? What's in it? It is clear that somehow we need to do it better and differently and in greater agreement and that we can further identify the professional factor, the operating factor, etc. I'd like to have some. A senator to review it with me. How can we handle this situation so that we can come to a better conclusion, but it seems clearly that we intend to do so? On the other hand, I'd like to discuss just the transparency of the strains. I understand that by the fact that the operation has ceased to be in a special profession and goes to the Ministry, the possibility of monitoring, transparency and such changes change. That's what I want to go over this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u56	A respectable president. When I was thinking about this on the way to the bus this morning, it came to my mind that it was kind of an inn. It's kind of an inn. It is a sin that has already brought it into the process where it is now. I can say I've never seen this before. But it's a little bit like what's happened here, like when it's been here. A environmental minister suggested that the environmental protection laws that had been worked for more than four years were removed. They saved it. There are other cases where people have come to a more reasonable conclusion than there have been at times. I think what you could do with this bill now is that we'd take a closer look at it. Section 3. is about a development team, as I mentioned earlier. Its role is then referred to, and it speaks of how governments should shape policy in international development. I wish that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee would take the case back to the committee and that we would consider these topics. Let's think of the Head Building, the Development Committee, considering how the policy is developed, how to change it if necessary, but let's hold the fateful decision to put down an independent, professional institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u57	President. I agree with what. A senator when she says it's an inn. It certainly is. As you listen to the more members of the council here speak, which, of course, are just from the state of government - there are very few who claim to support this case and report their approach to the matter - the following thoughts come to mind, and the matter has only been made clear. A senator here: Is this perhaps a matter of political involvement and then commercial? Is this process designed to eliminate transparency? That's what comes to my mind. In this context, I want to name the energy sector. It gives me a little bit of anxiety to have to think about it that way. It's not exactly an exciting thought when you know how much is at stake and for the way people are working, i.e. the poorest people in the world who think that they are just a little lucky if they have food to eat. Watch your step. A senator reviews it in the public address on how this is done in other parts of the North countries? Is it the same system as this one? They do everything they can to put this agency down and move into the Ministry to take control of something in my mind completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u58	President. You see, the exact words of the question are just right. A senator that makes you panic. Is it really so that people are trying to make this important activity more interesting than it is when it is in a special institution? I believe that the suggestion is good suggested by Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir, one of the largest evolutionists in the country. In her review, she concluded that it is far wiser to transfer all development projects into a special institution. How is this in the North? It will vary somewhat in the way this is done in various countries. We have very good experience with the system here. DAC, OECD development committee, concludes that things are in place today. DAC was going to do this equal work next year to verify that it was, because it certainly brings us to realize that we have been a bit busy in this regard, even though we have to put more money in this group. We should stop cutting on a nail in that material. [[The president calls.]] But we have noted how much we do and how well we do things according to the appeal number and what we are receiving, a respectable president, to be reminded of all of us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u59	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for her speech. I'd like to pick up the thread that wore out the last answer about the FAC. One of the factors used as logical support in the report with the bill is that the arrangement in Iceland has been explained to be different from that in most parts of the world, but it has, in fact, been deteriorating. of what? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor and, actually, a minority's list. Foreign Affairs. This report states that Iceland has a decision to make which arrangements would be most appropriate here on the basis of national reporting policies and effectiveness and effectiveness and effectiveness of the work. However, it was noted to the committee that DOC would never begin to say that there was something that we should do or should not do, but they pointed to a number of points we should consider and, in fact, follow the decision that had been made here to make a significant increase in the amount of donations we have now been given to develop. But I agree with the senator that the failure of information in the report, the committee's report, is one of the things we need to get to the highest level. A minister to come to the discussion, and to discuss his reasons with us, that he should speak with us about this matter? At least I think it matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u60	This is exactly one of the factors requiring that the minister be here and explain his point. True, we have heard that when he was with the workers of the Development Agency, and they asked me what the evidence was that he suggested it, he said: "I don't need evidence. There is also reason for him to come and explain to us why he does not need any reason to go through the bad things he has done. I'd like to direct the committee to my section. It says, by permission of the President: Interestingly, DAC specifically claims that Iceland's foundership in the media has the ability to achieve its objectives in developing cooperation. Although Iceland is low, it is effective in many areas of development in comparison with many countries, which are still powerful in that regard. DAC is hatched by saying that with Iceland's involvement in the development team committee, Iceland's unique approach and 30 years of experience will be of benefit to her. I can't see that something in this situation would argue to close and put down the expert agency in the litigation group. It's totally incomprehensible to me, Mr. Honorable President, how much. The minister, although his ways are unsearchable at times, finds this conclusion in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and must explain that I agree so warmly that I don't understand how you can have this review of the development community and then come to the conclusion that this bill is. There's another thing I want to talk to you about. A senator who has something to do with it. A senator entered his talk as well as the comments presented earlier. It has to do with the complexity of monitoring how money enters developing cooperation is spent, especially that it is more difficult to monitor what is done in the Ministry than how money is set up in a special institution. In addition, one of the objectives of building and entering the Ministry of State is developing a stronger link between developing cooperation and other foreignities. I'd like to take this over to a larger level than what's turning to Iceland and Iceland, take it out of the rocks, and put it in a global context. Today, the domination of the Western powers is often spoken of by aggressors or by aggressors of rich nations and their desire to meddle in the interests of other countries. That's what I'm talking about. I agree that this is dangerous, not only for Icelandic administration and how Iceland behaves in its developing cooperation, but it is just dangerous when it comes to dealing with and dealing with the indiscretions of wealth in society, and how the richer countries of the world strengthen those who are ill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u62	A respectable president. An example can always be set by the way men associate with this sect. If we are in a bad way, as it seems to be done here, you may even think that the game is partly designed to avoid going into this equal business, that there is such a rush to get it started before the New Year's so far, for then the change in the organization of evolution that some officials are so eager to do. I wondered if it could be. The question that the senator was asking about is a feeling that a developing research agency has managed to provide money that we have been able to use. I think it's said she got 700 million from foreign institutions in Icelandic projects. I can't understand how foreign institutions can begin to support projects directly on the basis of some Ministry. I can't see that there's ever going to be a starter in the world, if you don't mind me saying so. It's hard for me to understand. I think this is the most unfortunate, respectable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u63	A respectable president. Last night, I and I were made aware that the Minister could not be brought to the discussion, but I have not yet received any messages from the President's chair as to what the situation is today in dealing with the Supreme Court. A minister and whether he has perplexing reasons to be away from this discussion, since we have repeatedly asked that he be here to answer certain matters of opinion. I don't think a very perceptive political analyst would need to realize that this discussion is not very rapid as the minister does not contribute to the process here through the council. If he ignores it, like a dog. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall talked about here yesterday, if he thinks it's like cleaning up the bills, putting them in here, and taking them so clean and shiny from the council some weeks later, it's a misunderstanding. When it's that bad, it'll be the best. Minister for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u64	The current president has no special information or news to make of the latest travel. Secretary of state. But like others, he has observed and listened to the requests of members of the council there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u65	President. I would like to reflect on what has been presented here: How is the matter of walking when there is no one to answer for it? Now it's the highest. Minister, was yesterday, anyway, west of the Icelanders. It's beautiful in the West, and it's at Iceland, the least, I know it quite well, and it's good to be there. So I understand he's going to drive today, or he's gone out last night, north of the province, to meet with his party members from the advance party. It can be a nice meeting. I don't know anything about that. But I think it's more important in some way that a minister is here to review these matters with us, because this is a huge case. I'm directed to the president that he will do what he can to stop this discussion so that it can be taken on some wise foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u66	Mr. President. I'd especially like to agree with the last speaker. Indeed, it is beautiful in many parts of the West, and especially in animal life, which is part of an ice - roost of the highest. Secretary of state was yesterday. We made logical requests last night to the highest level. A minister would be here for a meeting to explain certain matters. Likewise, to explain the claims that came to the highest level. A minister would have been on political purchases to try to force this unnecessary, foolish case that seems to have no support for the council. If the highest. A minister would have wanted to contribute a few scales to pay the case, so the plane from Iceland landed in Reykjavík. 10,40. He spends three hours driving to meet his lovely candidates in the city of Skavegar. He could have been here today's lung, at least for two or three hours, to have a conversation with the council over this pit to explain his cause. But he chose not to. V.E.G. A minister does not have the courage, strength, and ability to come here and represent his own case. That is the fact, and we are not going to stop until the time came. A minister comes to represent him and explains the underlying issues. þm. The count of Ögmundur's son appeared here yesterday with many strong arguments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u67	Mr. President. I think it's long become clear, everyone in this room, that this discussion will not work properly or readily until the highest level. The minister of state comes here and answers the questions that remain. Here people have claimed that the support for our discussion is very weak, even based on misunderstandings. We need the answers, and we need the highest power. Secretary of State to give a better answer. So I propose, as I have before, and more of them. Councilmen, that we take this matter over the program, let's see if we can't find out if we can't find it on the ground, but we don't have to stay out here for a meeting. It is clear that the matter will be delayed during the absence of reconciliation or at the highest level. Secretary of state arriving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u68	Mr. President. When you're a minister, it's not enough to just say it. That's the argument at the highest. Secretary of state on this matter. When asked why he's doing this, he doesn't have to argue with it. It's like the little kids say, "Because." That's not enough for this case. It's a big, big deal. Governmentally, it is not well done in this way; it has been shown in the case of the State Accounting as the highest. A legal committee and its chairman have wanted to raise at an appropriate time. In this case, I do not understand why people can ignore such strong comments as they are made and why a minister allows himself to do so where there is a plan and construction, and all administrations on the same spot in total transparency. For that, it has the highest. A minister could not answer. That's what he needs to do. It's not enough to just say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u69	A respectable president. I've mentioned this in the past that I find this to be less democratic, and I wondered if it's a daily practice here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Generals and others then come out of the mountains when confidence in the Generalis is measured by the lowest - despite trying to increase its transparency and be on the Twitter, and being on community media and other things. But if they don't have democratic discussions with or against it and reason on big issues, I'm not surprised. To be honest. Then I'm not surprised that people don't trust this institution because it's the foundation here. These are decisions made. The following is a vote. I'm set against a wall. I'm supposed to vote with or against a vote and I've never heard what the argument is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u70	President. I must recall again a talk. paritaprevir Ásmundur, Einar of Daðason, back there, says: "It's said that there's no more here, that's going to be revealed in votes. The case has been settled in the government, the case has been cleared from government groups, and then the story is no more. He then just says that the members of the government were sitting at a government conference and settled this matter, and those of the administrative body have handled this issue from there. Why did these senators take care of this? Can we reason on why this was done? We here and participate in this discussion do not understand the evidence for this. Can these fine senators, who believe that this is just a matter of taking care of matters in the Houses of Congress or in government offices, tell us why they really did it? Why did they decide? [[The president calls.]] We don't understand, they'll explain it to us. And where is the secretary of state, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u71	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphéinson's hatred over how the geography was conducted and how it was the highest. A minister might well be here today, but he may also be a good judge of his own by attending a meeting there. There are two things that you can quite balance. That's weird, since it's kind of one of the biggest cases in the world. Minister, that he should not be here to attend when members of Congress call for it, especially in view of the fact that after 1st. there were still questions to ask, and they actually only increased during the short period of time that the committee was allowed to handle the matter. The questions I would now remember as a new member of the Foreign Affairs Committee can be directed to the highest level. Minister just multiplied. I would like to agree that, of course, we must postpone this meeting if it's the highest. However, a minister with this matter in his mind cannot show the respect of coming here and discussing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u72	V.E.G. President. This case is absolutely orphaned here at the Council. We have strongly criticized the minister for putting it ahead of his congregational duties, over trying to argue his misfortune, meeting with the candidates west on the shores, and in the province of Skavegur tonight. In addition, which is also very unnatural, it seems to me that at most two or three members of the foreign committee were here this morning to discuss this, or yesterday. They should be counted to praise those here. For example, I can see why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir is here for the case, but she doesn't participate in discussions, she doesn't take part in the answers, she doesn't try to argue. And what? Chairman of the Commission, what? paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, isn't here in the hall, she doesn't participate in discussions. It has shown that there are three new members of the committee, and this was quickly broken out, probably after the Supreme Court's orders. A minister to get this done in no time. I will make a comment to it in my speech. I demand that the Minister and the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee responsible for this case be here to answer for what I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u73	Mr. President. One of the prince's questions that have raised this discussion is: Which is the top priority? Ministers to get caught up in the country between forward partners in order to speak up to their good associates or to come here and represent their case, answer questions about the matter of Congress that he himself presents? There has been strong evidence that the matter does not have the support of members of Congress. It has been expressed by just one member of his own body by a speaker and by the conviction of the fine senator. paritaprevir It took only two minutes for Dr. Skamund's Sæmundsson Þorsteinn to promote his support. Since then, he has seen no special reason to reiterate it in a talk. I request that this discussion be postponed until the highest level. A minister comes to see the Council and explains his point. Or will he treat us like the employees of the Development Agency, who were terrified of him, ask what reasoning is behind putting the Agency down? And the highest. A minister, as enlightened at a meeting of the State Department, replied: "I don't need reason. He's the only one who's caused it. This is the humility of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u74	Mr. President. I'm coming back to discuss this strange thing all over. I thought why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson comes in on an intriguing point earlier about the possibility that would have been in the position for Minister to be here for this discussion and be involved in it and to come with a counterargument, which I have not yet received and do not completely follow. It would have been possible to fly from Iceland this morning and be here for the day and talk to us and then drive north to the beach when the machine passes through the day. That would have been a good chance. It just didn't seem to be interested. Maybe it's because it's very difficult for the highest. Minister to take this discussion, I think that's just the way it is. There's no argument with this, and it's gonna be very difficult to discuss. She's starting to explain what more people are saying here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u75	The president wants to inform us that the president who was here on his chair this morning at the meeting at the highest level. The secretary of state is outside town, but the president is also aware that this information has been transmitted to the highest level. Secretary of state that his presence would be desired.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u76	A respectable president. Banks play an important social function for economic stability. Iceland does not have a long history when it comes to banking, but it was not until the late 1800's that Iceland had its first bank, much of which was a matter of independence. The privatization of the state - bearing banks of some seriousness had not begun until the 1990's. Time and time were set aside to monitor financial activities, not to be burdensome, and to make government business a bad part of it. At that rumbling, the undergratitude of the banks was a privatizing process. I'm not going to judge whether a bank's private business is better or worse than a government business. The most important thing is that the business plan is independent, making sure that banks are employed by law, regulations, and good customs about banking. What was found at the Research Committee of the Allied Committee was that a break in the Icelandic bank output was already under way. They were not concerned about the overall interests of the group; they were out of favors when it came to bending, breaking, or bending rules. A respectable president. The report of the General Assembly Committee was strongly critical of how the personal development of the bank was carried out. The law allowing the personalization of the state banks went through the council in 2001 despite a division by the Economic and Business Committee. The warnings of the part were ignored. The Valgerður of Sverrisdóttir, then secretary of trade and economics, was applicable to the General's investigation report: This led to the inaccurate privatization of the bank laws and, in effect, no more than a declaration warrant for a minister to sell the banks. So the government was given universal authority over whether to sell one bank or two, how much items were sold, what prices were acceptable, what demands were placed on bank buyers, when banks would be sold, and for how long. All the arrangements of the sale were in the hands of a minister. The general council was a total wingweight in the case; its legislatures were weak, its surveillance function failed. A respectable president. It is better to make the same mistake over and over and to expect a different conclusion. The ghosts of the opening year of the 21st century hover over lakes in Icelandic society, and now we are gaining another bank. I can't see any better than it's the government policy to sell that bank, too. That is why it is necessary to have the highest order. A minister will answer my questions and members of the United States in a clear and understandable way when asking about the private development process. The government's position has not been clear enough so far, when it comes to whether, when, or how to take the place of the State in the Lands Bank. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister whether to sell the share of the State in the Lands Bank. If so, is it possible to sell a maximum share to the individual? Will there be an invitation for the State to be restricted to Iceland, or will it be available in the European Economic Area or even more? Will there be a time limit for the privateization process? The last time the banks were sold, the process was miserably given to the government's declarations of open career, talent, and prices. The latter part of the election season and the minister under great pressure to complete the election's sales. One factor in the outcome was the passing of time and the dream of a beautiful political heritage. Just as a report by the Allied Committee of Study Committees, the market situation at this time of the minister was not practical to achieve the above - mentioned objectives in the declarations of the government. As a result, there was an overexploitation of Icelandic banks in the market and no price for banks, much less the ability of owners to manage financial companies was guaranteed. As stated in Steinn Steinar's poem, with the permission of presidents: "In every man's dream, his fall is hidden. " In a dream of the liberationism of the personalization of the banks, it was concealed. It was not even a decade before the banks returned to the State and after the collapse. So I pray to the highest. A minister on the answer to these questions will consider this to be an encouragement to do better than last time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u77	Madam President. This is a significant subject, and we have only a limited time to discuss it, and the many matters of opinion that are certainly there for the changes in financial resources, especially in view of today's financial markets. You have to live with the time assigned here. I'm not going to follow a strap to everything they said about a previous privatization process, but there's a lot of things that don't go through. So I mention one at random, of course, an assessment of the appropriate owners, but it's not the government or the Senate going to do it, that's the role of the FDA. Of course, such an assessment took place back then. Indeed, banks play a very important role, primarily in serving their homes and business affairs. We have very much to rely on as a community to knock on the important role they are intended for law. When it comes to considering the extent to which the Kingdom will take place in them, it is easy to look around and ask: " What are some other places today? What is the custom in neighboring countries, in the North countries that many in this Assembly Hall would like to see? The answer is simply that the State does not have a superior financial position. It won't happen today. That may have been the situation, as the original - language discussion mentioned 100 years ago, but it is not today. More importantly, a matter will end so that Iceland's bank will be handed over to the state, and the government's ownership share in financial contributions will be about 25% of the gross domestic product. We have never faced that situation before. I'm calling it up because financials aren't risky business. We know that from the story. According to some sources, when private workers reached their business, the business became particularly risky, but it is not. We have an example in the history of a financial situation. The most intimate example is the Landsban. This discussion will be answered to discuss specifically the Bank of Lands. The question is, Is there a right to sell a item at the Lands Bank? I'm going to start by saying that when we're discussing personal development, I feel that we need to be clear about the Lands Bank about my ideas and what the government has been discussing, it is that the Lands Bank will remain in public interest to a considerable extent. I've spoken of the state's holding a 40% share, but in other respects the bank will be in scattered holdings. This is the fundamental thing I think it matters about the private development discussion, i.e. change the holding of much of the bank, but the state will continue to be a very large owner of the Bank of Lands. In the light of experience, among other things, I believe it is successful for us to build on it in the near future. No one, however, should wonder if we are going to sell the bank. It should not be necessary to ask whether it exists. There's a possibility that the Bank Office has these issues. She's preparing a report for the Ministry of Economics and Economics. I hope we get our first phase report this month. Then I expect that in January we will receive the final proposals of the Bank Office, which will take the initiative in this matter by law and, of course, under legal requirements. It is asked if there are rules about maximum ownership. I believe that we should take the measures that can be taken to control the authority of individual shareholders over the amount of individual banks. This can be done by distributing property at the bank's original sale, but it can be done with further follow-up. It is well - known and known in many places, including in Norway and in other countries, to have special rules to limit the authority of the individual bodies of the bank. It points to the vital role they play. [[The president calls.]] I'll try to answer two quick questions at the end. Of course, this will not be just an invitation to be carried out in this country, any more than a registered bank can only buy and sell between Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The time limit is that in the budget bill, we expect things to get on the move right next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Make an effort to start this discussion with Gudrunu Helgadóttir. You're absolutely right at the highest. A minister that the time he has to answer is short, but this does not change the question at any time. A senator's offer is of great importance. They need answers, and we should not be impatient when asked, and it is also possible to ask whether there is a right to sell the bank, whether there is a right to do it, because much of the government's work is so vague, unfortunately. We heard about this and the other things, but we don't quite have it in front of us what to do. It is also the most accurate of all. Minister that when the state appears to be en route with two of the three banks in its arms, it is even more important that we, the council, the people of the country know what men intend to do. It may well be that not everyone agrees with what is expected. But first and last, people need to know what is expected so that they can communicate with one another and have opinions about it, since it must be natural for the people of the country to have opinions about how the property will be handled. I'm happy about what's at the highest. The minister says he has a report in store for the year. I'd like to explain that this report would be most public, that she'd go to the Economic and Business Committee at any distance, but would be most public, and that she'd have it all on tables. True, it is a very urgent and much responsibility that the government needs to take on in these matters, but there is nothing wrong with asking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u79	Mr. President. We ponder over ideas about the privatization of the Land Bank, and we need to take into consideration the question of the right to sell it and when to sell it. The situation is that the Lands Bank will pay us enormous profits this year. Even 30 billion people are spoken of, and he is even equipped to pay even more. Then we wonder, or I: Shall a company that's in such a bullshitable position be able to pay off its owner so much interest? Especially after more research and researching the rules that finance companies will have to work on, so that their responsibilities will not rest on the nation again if or when financial companies break down. In this context, it is spoken of as reducing the responsibility of selling the bank, but the responsibility, of course, lies in the 600 billion in the introductions we were responsible for when banks collapsed and still do, and although the rules have been taken a little, we still have an extraordinary responsibility for that trade. There will also be a decision on whether to switch banking into business banks and investment banks, as many people are considering, including we in the left movement ◯ green supply, and in reality we agree with many of the people sitting here and wondering about them. We need to go over all of this and slowly step to the ground. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's possible to sell a share at the National Bank at this time, the expected property of Iceland banking, we're going to have to sell it, but the Bank of America is supposed to stay away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u80	President. First, I want to thank the advocate for this discussion. It is very needed and necessary. If the government was to sell property to them, they will have a discussion about going to the Assembly Hall and everyone in charge. I have to say, as it is, when I hear the word "private", Landsbana, exodus, and an independent party, I feel like I'm chilling, whenever anyone wants to lie down on me. The last time it was done at the beginning of the century, it was not that pleasant. So you wonder, too, as it turned out. A senator who spoke here before me, well. paritaprevir Lelandus Lárus Hannesson, whether or not we should be selling a company that makes so much money to the owners. But there is something else that I wondered about. During the last term, the synoptic resolution was adopted to initiate a private examination of this bank, and it says, including, by permission of the president: The contents and content of agreements with bank buyers, bank property evaluations, and to what extent it harmonizes with their goods, their agreements, and their regulations, including those that are in agreements. the price of the price. There will be reviews of surveillance and responsibility with the conduct of the contracts. The Committee compares the privateisation of the Icelandic banks with the sale of public financial institutions in neighboring countries and offers proposals for future sales of government property. Finally: ▪ The Commission assesses the consequences of performing the privatization of banks for Icelandic society. I think it's one of the most obvious questions that we need to answer when talking about privatizing things how it affects Icelandic society. It is clear that the privatization of banks at the beginning of the century had disastrous consequences for Icelandic society. There is an understatement and a lot more informed than I in these cases say the collapse began. But most of all, if we start selling the banks, which may not be so stupid as the highest. The secretary of finance says it's going to be in possession and the state has 40%, I'm not necessarily against it, maybe it's just very good, then we'll have to put up with it and follow-up and do it well and be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u81	A respectable president. I welcome this discussion of ideas about the privatization of the Lands Bank or its sale. But in view of circumstances, it seems that it is not time for the government funds to sell 30% of the Kingdom next year and certainly not, if the goal is to obtain an adequate price for the property. It is safe to say that the supply of stocks in banks has never been more than just now, and under these circumstances the State cannot expect an adequate price. The Council of Buy now invites Arion's bank to sell, and as it turns out, Iceland's state funds will be fully owned and put it in a trade process here will be offered by banks with their own money of 370 billion combined. That's a huge sum of money, considerably higher than total activity in the 2014 stock market. As a result of this great supply, it must be wise to wait for plans to sell to the Land Bank until the sale of the other banks has begun and the market is ready to take more. It could take a few years. Happily, there is absolutely no need to sell the government's property at the Lands Bank. The bank has provided a wealth of money, and there is little to suggest but that the bank's profit will be fine in the coming years. Funds for 2016 assume only 7 billion dollars. interest in the Lands Bank. However, considering the year's increase, it can be expected that the cost will be much higher, probably about 30 billion. The bank then has a wide range of budgets to pay out special interest because the bank's own money is considerably higher than what the rules offer. Such interest could be 20 billion degrees. So next year, the Land Bank could pay for 50 billion dollars. It is approaching to be 3/4 of the estimated value of the object to be sold under budget. It has been heard of reducing the share of the state of the bank by 70 billion to reduce the risk of banking, but whether the government sells a share in the bank or not, the state's budget remains inevitable for all banks, which is some 600 billion. To reduce the risk of future taxpayers'loans, it is more certain that the state will have the bank completely until there is a record of banking in Iceland that guarantees their safety. [[The president calls.]] As I've traced here, there's no market market to take 30% of the Lands Bank in the years ahead. But it is not a problem but, rather, an opportunity for a wealth of money, a policy that lowers the bank's high risk ratio, and gives tens of millions of advantages to the homes of the country and businesses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u82	Madam President. It is fine to discuss the potential sales and expected sales at a large part of the State Fund at the Bank of the United States. It may also be true that sometime, members of the Parliament, we would consider, in effect, discussing the basic role of the State and what we will expect of the State and its role. Its role is, among other things, probably all of us agree, to secure here a powerful health system, a powerful education system for all, social security where we provide the help our neighbors need, infrastructure for transportation, etc. But it cannot be that one of the basic roles of the State in running financial institutions and taking great financial risks from them. Therefore, it is wise for the state to withdraw from all financial businesses. It cannot be a long - term goal for the State, and especially for taxpayers, that the state takes financial risks and has financial activity in the form of business banks or investment banks. It is strange to listen to the fact that, on the other hand, people are talking about not the time to sell the Lands Bank, it is possible that the bank will be making a lot of money in the years ahead, making it wise for a government fund to keep its ownership there, but at the same time, it is not likely that government funds will be affordable to the bank. This reminds us of the discussion that it is never the right time for some to lower taxes. [[The president calls.]] A number of things because it's so hard a year for a state fund or a bit too heavy. [[The president calls.]] But it is never the right time for the government to have a financial agency and to allow taxpayers to accept financial responsibility for such a business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u83	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. In November 2012, the General Assembly agreed to a pact proposal for the investigation of the privateisation of the banks. The Conspiracy proposal means that the General Board of Research Committees investigating the privatization of employment investment banks, Iceland's Bank, and Iceland's National Bank, respectively. ........... 68, 2011. One study of the privateisation of the banks was aimed at providing a comprehensive overview of the policies, decision-making and implementation that were responsible for the sale of stocks in the three banks, to learn from the process of developing policies for the best sale of the state's financial capitals in the future. An independent, independent study is conducted on the sales of the state banks in 2002, as well as the 1998 Investment Bank. The Scientific Committee shall include the policies and criteria for the privateisation of the banks and the extent to which they were followed for decision-making and implementation of the private industry, comparing the personal development of Icelandic banks with the sale of public financial institutions in neighboring countries, offering proposals for future sales of financial assets and evaluating the consequences of the conduct of the bank's private reforms in Icelandic society. Madam President. I don't think that the property of the state should be sold in the banks until this approved Congress proposal has been implemented. The results of the study will then be used to shape policies and criteria for selling property shares in banks if it is profitable for the State to sell the assets. We're in no hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u84	Madam President. It's a matter of discussion, and I appreciate it. Actually, it seems like there's a lot of need to talk about this rather and maybe a little bit more about the 2nd. ... abundant. I feel that way, like a dog. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, that the state should go slowly and that there is no need for them, especially with the Bank of Lands. The Land Bank is the largest bank in the country. The Land Bank has also gained more speciality in this respect because of the takeover of savings all over the country. Not only is it the largest economic sector but it is the geographically the largest financial organization in the country and the bank that alone provides commercial services in large areas even in whole areas. Ideas about the Lands Bank as a sort of community bank are thus very close. For example, his role is to lay upon him a responsibility to render service everywhere, where he has a ministry and that good service, and he does not shut down. The ability of the Lands Bank to pay for money has been brought up here. In the meantime, he can pay 30 billion plus a year to make money, it's not a very good idea to sell it. The trouble is like a dog. The second - to - last speaker should consider that the bank can be valuable and in a position to make a success of money, while the market affords a very poor price for it. This need not be combined, for the market is not perfect. That's exactly the situation. What does it make to know that if you want to push into the market here Arion's bank with 177 billion your own money? What if he goes to 1203/4,140 billion, compared to 0.6 - 0.8, which could hardly be more? Iceland Bank, if he comes to the state with $187 billion his own money, he goes on the same gang as that, that's 130,550 billion. Who should buy a bank for perhaps $3 billion in Iceland in just a few losses? It's like talking about throwing another one in the market, maybe 30% of a share in the Lands Bank and giving it away. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or maybe it's now the highest. Secretary of finance, as one of his predecessors, feels that privatization is so important that it is even acceptable to accept half of the money in order to make personal choice?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u85	Madam President. I like others to thank you for the discussion. I'd like to call in a little bit more in response from the highest level. The secretary of finance on the guidance he has at this job, because we may be like this on the Torithian tone here, what can we learn from the last privatization? Then I'm not trying to argue that everything was done with an evil mind, though it may be difficult to say, for there are indications that there have been discrepancies, so I don't say it more powerful, and then I'm not quoting some large socialistic publication I've been reading about it. I'd like to hear more from the highest. A minister about it because I just think it's just as important to say the concerns I felt was a problem. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson described a popular opinion earlier. There are many who are very afraid of all the efforts of the government to privatize something because we have done badly in the past. A great deal of effort has been made to build up the trust of foreign workers in the European markets after a crash, and it seems to have been successful in terms of some of the investments that are coming back into the country. I want the secretary of finance to discuss this fear and concern that are in many places because they are important and are here because we have failed miserably in the past, although we may understand exactly what was wrong there and how it was done. We must agree, though, that the final privatization brought a collapse six years later; it can be just some sort of mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u86	A respectable president. Thank you for taking this matter up and answers to the highest degree. Secretary of finance. There has been quite a talk about the privatization of the former and evidence in general that it is not wise for the state to have a financial enterprise, it is such a risk, etc. This is the same reasoning that was used in the last terms when banks were handed over to the demands. We can stay with those two actions. Let us, though, consider what really matters at the time of our day. I'm thinking that we've rebuilt the banking system in way too much like it was before a crash, and that happened in the last term. Now we're witnessing that the lead leaders of finance, the financial market enterprise, are trying to convince all of us that the largest element is to dispose of as soon as possible all the property items in the banks because there is a risk of it, etc. Some of this may be true. But we need to do so before we take the step to ask ourselves, " What changes do we need to make in the financial system? ' It's not about whether we sell 10% or 20%, and whether it's 10 billion or 20 billion. Why is there so much healing in the banking system? Why have the banks paid tens of billions of dollars for profit in recent years, even in spite of much of the taxes they talk about being on the financial system? How do we increase the practicality of the banking system for business and the public around the country? How do we answer those questions? Aren't we going to attack the separation of business banks and investment banks that have become the policy of all the political parties in the General Assembly, all political parties following the Independence Party National Conference? Will we continue to offer financial security systems for the financial market and for the banks? We need to put such things first. And once we get to the point where we're going to solve those issues, it's time to talk about the best way we're doing property on the banks, and then it may be wise for the banks not to belong to the public, and I kind of agree with them. [[The president calls.]] These are basic questions, though, before continuing to do any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u87	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for taking this discussion with us here at the council. I trust this will be done more by the Council now than before, and I expect the Council to guarantee it itself. I also want to thank everyone. Councilmen who spoke up during the discussion. As far as I understand, I understand the most. A minister so that the privatization process will probably begin next year, but not all of us agree on the wisdom of that process. We all agree that banks play an important social role, but we also need to consider the role of the State and whether the State should pursue financial activities, and the discussion is worth taking place. I'll say something special for you. paritaprevir It's a whole new Harðardóttir daughter who's retrospecting a report on a private development study of the banks. We really need this report before we rewind, before we go back to privatizing the bank, because there's no need to make the same mistakes again. I'd like to wait to the highest. Secretary of the economy to slowly walk through the door of joy and trouble when we're going to do it again, whether it's this year or the next one or the next. Then I also want to reiterate that when the banks were privateized at their time in Scandinavia, they took decades. The banks are in some of the Scandinavian countries that we would like to compare ourselves with that of the State. Personal banking, especially if we are going to privatize three banks, will not take three years. You didn't privatize one bank a year, as was the last time you did. It takes decades, and we need to think far ahead. It's something that's characterized Icelandic politics all along, we don't think far enough ahead, we're just one semester at a time, and that's way too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u88	Madam President. In a way, it's been quite inexpensive and practical, and I'll thank you for the fact that for her, there's more to it. Of course, we will discuss this matter a great deal over the next loss. I'm just gonna come in on some things that have been prominent in the discussion. They say, "It's so much money in the bank that it's impossible to sell. " I'm going to point out that a company that makes a lot of money sells at very high prices if they're likely to continue making money, so that is not to be worried about it. So they say, "The bank is making a lot of money, so let's not sell it. " Then let us change it and turn it into a nonprofit community bank, so that they will spend their money, the same amount of money that they say is the reason to keep the bank. There's a cross there. They say it doesn't have a frame. I'm going to encourage those who claim that there is a lack of budget for financial activity in Iceland to study all the changes that have been made in financial companies since 2009. For one thing, while the bank that was sold at the time had about 16 billion, less than 10%, perhaps 5% of what the bank's own money is today because new demands of divorce are much stronger financially. That is also true of the individual, whom they were referred to here. We have new legislation on this, and there is a set of priorities for the property of financial companies. This is a completely different environment that we live in today, and the Icelandic route has become a model throughout Europe. They say the state should go slow. The Kingdom has gone slow. We took over the banks in 2009. It is 2015. 2016 is around the corner. We've been very slow. But I'm not going to belittle the fact that we're facing a huge project, of course. We'll get an Iceland bank, which has up to 200 billion in its own money and the Lands Bank as big as he is. Of course, it's a huge project, and I have no idea that we can sell the whole Bank of Lands and the whole of Iceland over the next 12 months, of course not. [[The president calls.]] But the policy has to be clear, and I feel that there are too many people in this discussion here, and in saying, "Well, I'm not directly on state property, but there's a private interest to be considered, but some time later, etc. You have to start making up your mind on this. [[The president calls.]] To me, we're supposed to pay off debt. Each of the 100 billion costs us at least 5 billion on interest, and the weight of interest today is the chief problem of the State. Those calling for further investigation are those in the last government or who supported it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u89	It was General.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u90	You were only supposed to complete this investigation. We encouraged it during the last term. [[The president calls.]] Why did this investigation not end at the time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u91	A respectable president. It's interesting, the situation that's getting late at the council. It has been observed in this discussion that the Independence Party is completely isolated from its position on the personalization of the banks and in this great urgency in the subject that best describes itself in the final answer. Economic and economic ministers, as a mother's overeating over the situation, gave their hands to the ideas of a community bank that has been discussed and tore up among his government members, in the forward category. What would it all cost for the advance party to be willing to join the Independence Party in these private reform programs, sewing in the health system, throwing hundreds of people out of high school? Does this mean that it is a benefit to a development organization? Is it possible for the advance of the political horse markets that are discussed here to put down the development community? [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u92	V.E.G. President. I'm not here to discuss the possible sale of property items in the banks owned by the state. I'm going to discuss what was presented in the case of the independents and those of the government groups at the highest level. A minister of finance scolded the delegates of the parish, who spoke in this discussion and persuaded them to speak in the cross, that they did not speak clearly. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson protested a sale at the Lands Bank, which is one of the grounds of the bill for the budget brought to the council by the secretary of finance. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, senator of the Agency, believes that the banks should be replaced. To do so before the highest. Secretary of finance sells, or is it to be done afterwards? Besides, the community bank is unafraid. A respectable president. I'm trying to draw up the excellent discussion. At last, a member of the council was exalted earlier to present these great differences between the members of the board of directors. We therefore wish for a minister of foreign affairs to be answered and that forwarders or independents are involved in a discussion about the YSSI, and you ask whether the same disagreement is there. [[The president calls.]] What about the horse shops? What does the advance get? What must the advance party sacrifice for the YSSI?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u93	Madam President. In the preceding discussion, news became reported. Personalisation of banks led to one of the greatest economic losses in the Icelandic Republic that it has ever experienced. Now it's got the highest. Economic and economic ministers repeated their determined desire to engage in new privatization. He wants to behave her in this way. The head of the Economic and Business Committee describes it almost as leading to a fire sale on banks owned by the state. Clearly, there has been a fundamental difference in one of the most important issues in the government's economic policies, i.e. for sale at the National Bank. It says that two members of the House of Booths, hombre. The chairman of the Party and what. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is going against it. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Secretary of finance answers by ridiculeing the ideas of the Organization for Community Bank. We need to determine the policy of the government in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u94	Madam President. I'm only going to get involved in the material discussion that is here under the President's conference board. There are several changed times since the last term when a horse's wedding was practiced every day, and the former government was a minority government during the past six months of its work period, such as that of pa·rou·siʹa. The vice president of the United States has informed us. Those days are over. It is no longer a defense agency for the EU desert mission. Those days are over. Nothing like that is going on. [[Up front.]] However, it is such that man has -- [[Up front.]] Madam President. Those words, though I'm just quiet, get a lot of excitement. It's okay. No, people need to realize that those times are over, but I encourage people to give up a material discussion that was fine earlier and that it was done well and that it was just back to the council program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u95	Madam President. We certainly got something to think about during the previous discussion, which apparently showed that the administrative parties disagree completely on a significant subject of the budget and the budgets for the next year, i.e. planned sale of 30% shares in the Lands Bank. There's got to be something that we have to take care of here, not later than the two of us. ... abundant. I made the most of my calls to the highest level. A president will determine if the meaning was to continue the discussion on the 2nd issue without the highest priority. Secretary of State will be here for the discussion. I think that's very inconceivable, and actually inappropriate for the council. I think the circumstances have come up that the council is rather putting itself down if it talks about it day after day and that it has not been requested to the highest level. The minister of state is here to answer the discussion. We should not be offered to do so when such valid and vital evidence falls to the highest degree. Ministers of the council are responsible for their duties and the duties of the Ministers, and they answer for their case at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u96	Madam President. The earlier discussions about selling the State in the banks revealed big news in my opinion. There was a very open disagreement between the government parties on the big case. You should remember that on the budget bill money is expected in the state fund for the sale of banks. Hv. The PUBs may have provided the budget bill once more in advance, I don't know it, but that's how the bill is prepared, the main policy plan is at the top. Governments. The decision was very open in the initial discussion. It has not been so open even if we know that it exists in the current subject. I call for it, as before, to the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs come to the chamber and answer questions about that matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u97	A respectable president. I think it's very interesting that the highest. The minister of state cannot see fit to be here in this room when we are discussing the big issue. I feel that in this matter the old and the new is crystalline, how it is being forced through a matter that really disagrees with the council. The best thing to say is that I quoted Valgerður Sverrisdóttir from a report by the Alduary Research Committee: 'The Commission was naturally very judgmental at the council at that time. Is that not also true today? Isn't that what's wrong? Are we looking at the exact same government that took place 15 years ago in the process of collapse? Is it not time for us to stop doing this and change how we work? We want the council to take up a discussion, and then we need a foreign minister to talk to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u98	Madam President. I have to agree with what. Councilmen, it's interesting what was quoted here last time. What we have experienced is that the project has not generally been here for a discussion once we have requested it and have failed to follow the very few cases presented. However, in view of the earlier discussion, I wanted to call attention to something else and to encourage the Senate to think about it when we go to the 2nd. The money, the secretary's opinion, was that it was risky to be in the bank business on behalf of state funds. But he's going to invest for 2.5 billion in an Asian bank, he's authorized to do that in financial aid, so we need to discuss it now with the budget and with the budget, the strange attitude expressed here, and not just amongsts. It seems that having an Icelandic bank is risky, not foreign. These budgets are part of this government's scope, and it's unnatural that there's so much conflict in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u99	Madam President. I'm going to protest against the dishonorable minister at the council for not attending these discussions and just using the talk period by standing here. [[The Senator's quiet for 50 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u100	President. I would like to point out the discussion here in order to restart, i.e. for the European Development Agency and its decomposition, the situation has become such that there are two benefits here at the Senate Hall. One is to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs comes to the meeting to answer the big issue of opinion raised, an important question that has been raised. The other is that the council is responsible for a bad case, and men attempt to sit down and reach mutual conclusions on the material reconciliation on this matter, which is responsible for such a delicate case under which, in effect, the only way that the council is offered is if at the highest level. A minister is not going to represent his case. A respectable president. This discussion will be completed only if one of these two options is made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u101	A respectable president. I thought I had given that speech this morning. But because it was claimed that we were here with a case that had no support at the council, I intend to remind them that the case we address, the development community, was adopted in the government. [[Up front.]] It was approved by the government. During the last session of the State Department of State, a branch office was released in a larger part, and at committees, a majority of the members of the State Department were given a very thorough and thorough discussion. It went back to this council through the 1st. and for the Foreign Affairs Committee. Of course, when they claim that the matter is not supported in the chamber, they do not act as if the government had repeatedly spoken the matter against themselves. A minister was present at 1st. The point. As far as I know, the representatives of the greater part of the State Department are here. [[The president calls.]] The custom is that the minister is at 1st. [[The president calls.]] It cannot be revealed what the situation is in the council regarding this matter until there is a vote in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u102	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a Ásmundur. paritaprevir Daðason'd like to say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You understand well that the minister of foreign affairs prefers to be west on the beach or in Tahlfir during this discussion. It is only natural for humans who have such a bad cause and no cause to try to stay away. But, hey. A senator was talking about the whole career; a government release, approved by members of Congress, and all of that. You see, the members of Congress also did so, along with members of the Parliament, with the budgetary bill expected to sell on property in the Lands Bank. Here, there was a very clear disagreement between the government classes on the sale, where the minister of finance used his minutes to make jokes and ridicule candidates who were contradicting the sale. [[The president calls.]] I am convinced that several members of the Parliament, or members of the council, have taken other missions such as one of the scandals of the Generals and became with the officials of the Foreign Party in a discussion about the sale of the bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u103	Madam President. You could see and hear from a talk. paritaprevir Before he was shocked, the Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, received a speech of the highest order. Secretary of finance. In that respect, there is nothing. At least a senator is respectful, for he sees to it that the board of directors intends to submit the approval of the advance party at a national meeting for a community bank. Unfortunately, it seems to me like a dog. A senator and the chairman of the Assembly of the Foreign Party did not have just as strong a conscience and a sense of justice over his cause and his good party and his bad. Senator Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. I couldn't hear better than that. A senator named Ásmundur Einar Daðason was in his second speech to draw ashore from what he said earlier. Of course, it's very easy to experience here, why. A senator says that both of these issues are under support, but what has happened today? It turns out that there is a baloney disagreement about the sale of the Lands Bank, just as the silence of the Independence Party emphasizes that there is a nonsense disagreement on the subject listed here, the TSSI and the motion to settle it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u104	Madam President. I just want to introduce to you what has been mentioned in this context, that is the concept of ◯ irresponsible and our differing understanding of whether the responsibility of the people is diminished or increased by selling shares in banks or banks. I think that would be most reasonable, given the responsibility that we have that we have a bit of a finger in what the business is like. That's what happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's mail to banking services in the country. It has not been a big part of it, has it run away a bit quickly, so there's nothing worse to consider from that party, is it not true that we have the Bank of Lands and that we have to do with him serving the whole country? He's our biggest bank, and services in most places. Finally, I'd like to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónnsson said, it needs a good look, and I trust that the advance party is behind him on those issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u105	A respectable president. I'm not from the time it comes to how we're going to rule this country. It's not Congress in Iceland. The question was made clear. The senator, Ásmundur, Daðason of Solomon, is in charge of the entire government. That may just be my childish innocence, but after reading the Constitution, I thought the government was granted its commission from the General. Then there is nothing to talk about with her anymore. So, then, have we not come to have totalitarian control of the government? This is something we really need to talk about. What kind of respect does the government show to the council she gives her power from? When it comes to large issues that are not just about setting things around, a minister's incorruption is absolute. This question is, How do we want government in our country? That's for us to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u106	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason said that it was a matter of course to continue this discussion about TheSSI because the bill had been approved by the government, members of the government council, and supported by the General Assembly. The same is true of the budget bill, as we have seen in this article, as well as a national budget that is longer than one year. Then you agreed. Employees and the highest. Ministers in the government sold the State's ownership of banks, members of Congress also did so, and adopted the government budget of the Assembly Hall. Hv. The members of the Independence Party, however, are so polite that they do not go to sleep. Employees and the highest. Secretary of state in this case, but that's what we're gonna do. Councilmen shamelessly protest. Financial and economic ministers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u107	Madam President. I'm not from the fact that there's a certain ring in the chains when it comes to supporting the executives in this matter. The key point is that these are logical and material wishes that the minister of the seminar come and answer the question. It is by nature that no one other than the Minister can do what the pot has to do. Then I'd like to protest the dangerous interpretation. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason that the duties of the council minister are finished by he or she going in and measuring a case with 1st. Maybe we should start to thank you for the fact that the Ministers usually make a recommendation, let alone. And that the council has no demand for a Minister to be here after that - this is a very dangerous interpretation and is contrary to all the terms of the council and the administration of the country. In this case, a minister is also a elected senator and has a party like the rest of us, unless he has legitimate alibi. He's the minister of the jury, and he's to be held accountable for him. As noted, a conniving government is seated here. Where do we go if we allow such interpretations to resolve that a minister is free of charge and that the council has no requirement that he come here and stand for it only while he goes in here to measure up? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u108	A respectable president. What I'm about to experience here is that democracy is redness. How painful it is to feel that this is happening at our highest meeting of decisions, that we cannot live by what I believe should be a natural democratic practice and a natural discussion of matters. In my heart and mind, this is a huge matter. I'd like to inform you about the discussion. According to the program, this subject is to go to votes today, and I am legally bound to live by my own convictions. How should I do so when I cannot hear any evidence as to why this is a good decision? [[Up front.]] - It's also come up here, dear senator Bruds Níelsson, some questions, and I'd like to hear the answers to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u109	Madam President. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to repeat what was done under the supervision of the President before and as a criticism. The senators are being treated. The discussion has raised very large questions and reviews that may lead to a lack of strong support and even a major misunderstanding. It's been called after the highest order. Secretary of state to cross this thing with a bit of force. During the discussion, members of the council have not been attended. I have to say, Madam President, that it happens a thousand times during the discussion, and has happened quite often since this highest. The government took over, at least. Councilmen have called after the Supreme Court. Minister, but they have failed to comply with that request. President. It's the highest. The President, who is the president of all of us, who is in charge of the Council and of course has the highest power. Minister to the highest. President when he calls the highest. Minister to see what needs you need. Councilmen, for the highest. A government works for the government, but not the other way around. I think it's something that's wrong. The presiding committee should cover and discuss. What is the situation of the Generals? Is she getting sick? Are we evading the decision of the General Assembly committee, who spoke of the need to strengthen the council? I hope to the highest. The president will consider this and also the fact that there is a major issue here, which has been presented in the case of individuals. Parliamentaries during the discussion can be found at a level of reconciliation. One way, for example, is to wait for the DaAC to be completed, that is an assessment of the Iceland Development Research Centre, which is about to fall in, Madam President. Why should we not wait for that assessment? What's the hurry? It even went so far as to discuss the matter and to its final payment for 2nd. ... thecomputer of the administration parties at each time. A foreign press committee does not take the time to bring in guests and to determine many matters of opinion, they were eager to complete the matter on the committee and thus enter the council. The smaller part of it. The State Department submitted an accounting. I'd like to, Madam President, recall that account. It's like this, with President's permission: ▪ The European Commission's member countries of the State Department strongly opposes the implementation of developing issues aimed at putting down the Development Cooperation Agency, without having the opportunity to discuss the topic of the bill with key organisations, such as Government Review, but the transfer of projects from an independent agency into the Ministry is in opposition to the repeated counsel of Government Research on good administrative matters and clear boundaries of preparation and monitoring. Such practices are in opposition to the traditional procedure of members of the Parliament and prevent members of the Parliament from fulfilling their research duties. All reports and experts referred to in the Committee have praised the YSSI for the effectiveness and good management of developing funds. The Agency's desensitization is described by the National Social Science Department of the HI as a microblation. On the contrary to the bill of bringing down the European Development Agency, it has been suggested in the work of the Commission that Iceland's work in development cooperation could be promoted by moving to the Agency all the complex tasks within the Department of Justice, which is now being carried out by the Ministry itself. No attempt was made on the committee to study that route. Conspiracy members, VG, Career's Future, and Pirata are sorry for this strategy and think it's a good idea that the majority of them don't trust to get the U.S. Madam President. I think this book is very clear, and it's harsh and direct. I want to agree with it here. It is also of interest when discussing the exact change and this bill on the Development of the Agency, which is suggested to be accepted into the Ministry, that no overall policy in the administrative department has been submitted. State Department and the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has a policy to take to himself organizations that no one has complained about and that have been a great deal of peace while the Supreme Court is at peace. A large part of the educational and cultural functions of the Ministry of Education and Culture is being developed by the Minister of Education. Where's the highest heading? Governments in these matters? She doesn't have one. Maybe that's how it is. The Ministers of Ministers want to take over organizations, but the highest. The minister of the Independence Party extended to them. I don't know, but that kind of thing shouldn't be on the secretary's hand, but on the top floor. A government meeting for a policy in these matters. There are many good reports that included the past in the last terms of improved administrative management, the stronger the Ministry and the stronger institutions I would like to contribute to. The government's supposed to check and view. The members of the board of directors to study. Madam President. I am relatively new to the United Nations General Assembly. I was there with three others. Councilmen. We found out about development cooperation, had many meetings for development cooperation. In every corner of the development community, she received commendation and praise, and we were actually all very proud of our organization and the commendation she received. Although with smaller projects elsewhere, a developing working agency works mainly in three countries. She serves in Malawi, Mozambique, and Uganda. It involves mothers, children, education, health care. We've done very well. It has been noted that there is no country that operates in such few countries as we do, and in this regard it has been noted that it is unlikely to intend to reduce some activity. In the context of my section's article, the views that support the lack of the wisdom of this decision are greatly appreciated. There's no reason to feel her. The case is neglected, vague, and partly based on misunderstandings, according to some committee opinion. Foreign Affairs. This is not to say that there are some solid evidence available to substantiate the Agency but, on the contrary, in a paper with the bill, specifically stated that the Agency has done such a good job in the field to be taken into account. Madam President. I can confirm it and was doing it earlier, because there was talk with us why. Senators who attended the United Nations General Assembly during the days. It is said that the bill is based on the report by Þórir Guðmundsson, an employee of the Red Cross at the time of that report - a series of possibilities for development cooperation and the memory of criticism that no more views are sought. It is quoted here in the DEC assessment, which was now a very positive, final assessment, and that is being done new. The minority has proposed, in the treatment of this matter, that the matter will be canceled while waiting for that report. Thereafter, her conclusions would be worked out when a decision is made on the matter. It also points out that in other countries such as Italy, it is being done in ways other than the highest. Minister wants to go into this with the European Development Agency and the Organization and the outdoor development community. The minority points to the opinion that the European Development Agency is considered to be a model for the government and, for example, the Government Review has repeatedly replaced the Agency's annual accounts without comment. So at least there is no support for the decision to lay down the Agency. The committee also stated that the committee's conference case repeatedly shows that aims to strengthen the link between evolutionary cooperation and other foreign organisations carry out a particular risk of developing cooperation with related aspects of foreign policy. For this, by permission of the President, I would like to quote a report with a proposal to the minister of the Foreign Affairs on the Developmental Cohesion Agency conducted in 2008 by the Sigurbjörg of Sigurgeirsdóttir. The review of this report focused on the development programme within the foreign service here and aims to explain the position of the panel within the administration. It will emphasize the importance of strengthening the production of knowledge society in developing countries to ensure access to the administrations to expertise based on education and experience in Iceland's development community. I would like, by permission of the President, to quote here in the report, the quote: A year of development is closely linked to political rhythms in both the country's contribution and its population. Development teamwork is a subject requiring long-term commitment on both sides because the results of development teamwork are not measured in one or two years. Achieving results are usually only after years. The challenge of developing cooperation is that evolution is a long way of life, and after the birth, it is often taken during a long period of breeding and teaching. At that time, evolutionary cooperation in itself is a macropolitic and has political differences. Political rhythms and development partners, however, tend to get off on the wrong side. For progress in developing cooperation, there must be a wide range of political solidarities and long - term support. Could it be, Madam President, that there are differences between countries of evolutionary cooperation within the administrations? We've heard something special. Senators express themselves in this way, but a large part is now more, so it may not be a majority wish to try to reduce Iceland's development cooperation. I sure hope it isn't. But, Madam President, I would like to express my thoughts about this decision that seems to be to be taken with so little reasoning and taking steps to weaken Iceland's development cooperation and to reduce the collection of knowledge that has become available in this ideal institution, which, although most certainly, is so pleased with it. Minister would like to lay it down and what. Generals. What I want to remind you of here is an eco-efficiency group. The highest economic group. Governments presented 111 suggestions in the beginning of the ideal period. One of the 111 suggestions for this management group. Governments were putting down a development research agency and running it into the State Department. I'm sure it's still active, though I'm not aware of it. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Guðlaundur Þór Þórðarson and Ásmundur Einar Daðason, together with Brá Konráðsdóttir Consgisdótir. It's their suggestion. These leaders and more of the stuff. The State Department of State cut more money than any other council when working with the budget bill during this election period, they have cut the proportion of the State Department's Department of State to a much greater extent than the rest of the budget. There may be a requirement somewhere to accept the proposal of the economy and to the highest degree. Ministers have the power to select suggestions for enforcing and to the highest degree. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has chosen for its part to submit the development community of Iceland. In fact, that's why the reasoning is so demeaning, and that's why it wants to be the highest. A minister is not here for the discussion, nor does he want to answer the questions that have been asked. I'd like to mention this here, Madam President, because we who are going to make a decision on this matter are trying to understand how it really is that the matter is here in this great conflict and in this system we see in. It's not fun to say this, Madam President, but it's my suspicions. Councilmen in the economy wanted to validate themselves and demanded that any of these 111 be taken into account and each of the highest. Ministers give their share in this and the highest. Secretary of state has chosen this proposal. There does not seem to be a deeper thought behind this. It may also be at the top. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is pleased to have more staff inside the Ministry to do jobs that are important in the Ministry, which has been cut down, and where there is a great deal of pressure on each individual. If they got workers of the Development Agency into the Ministry, the pressure could be distributed. However, the danger, as noted above, is that the expertise that has been developed in the Agency and that the international work of foreign workers is having a bad share in developing cooperation. Madam President. I see that my time is running out, so I'll finish my case this time, but I'll expect to be back in a speech when it's highest. Secretary of State has come here to explain matters to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u110	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to go over a few things. We all agree that this bill is delirium and not good. The very concept of the minority is quoted as saying that Italians are considering excusing themselves from the arrangement that is being introduced here. It is on page 18. 4 that they are turning away from the path suggested by the Icelanders. It tells you something about why it is being tried on with something that has already been proved in many places that is not the best option. Hv. A senator has served as a minister and has worked in councils, and he knows how they work. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a little special with this one non-meditation agency. I've been worried about it, like many people, that once that much money gets into one of the department's pots, it's gonna be hard to keep track of how the money's gonna be spent, i.e. the range of translucency will be lower than this day in view of the assessments that regularly occur in the Developmental Cooperative Organization. There are no examples of the National Re-evaluation of the Council Assessment, at least Not that I know of. Does she feel that the Ministry is less equipped to handle administrative responsibility for these funds and for this job by moving the Agency into the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u111	Madam President. Whatever it is. A senator mentions just what administrative experts have criticized, i.e. ... thatthe surveillance and implementation are in the same hands, that it is relevant that the Ministry is in charge of the Agency, that this is not a good management board. But I can well understand the highest. A minister who has suffered a lot of surgery in his ministry and more than other departments is looking for ways to get more staff into the Ministry to do the important work that needs to be done there. This, however, is not the way. We both have the highest. Secretary of finance and economics, tops. The prime minister and others in the administrative part clearly described what we are in a good place with the money. We certainly are in a much better place than when we were wrestling here with the economic depth of economic collapse. But in order to meet the position in which the management board is in, it is too weak, there are too few who carry it, it can also be dangerous for an independent nation to have a weak government, rather to strengthen it. There's not supposed to be an organization that's fine with and more than that, everybody's very happy, both at home and abroad. I warn, and I agree with what the administrative experts have said to have both the same supervision and action on the same hand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u112	Madam President. The discussion has been a bit like the point of two people who have given their opinion, Sigurbjörg's Sigurgeirsdóttir, and Þórir Guðmundsson, of course, more. In view of the lower percentage, Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir has criticized this. As one of the leading evolutionists, she writes a very serious review of these matters and is deeply concerned about them. There are a lot more than just us here, and we are deeply concerned about this matter. I have also wondered a lot about it, and I don't understand why the two groups involved want to increase the amount of transparency that results. For example, in this regard the United Nations School for Peace, as well as the UN School, which is not regularly evaluated or anything else that is successful and that is not. I think we are entering something that will be less superficial to us in order to monitor the amount of money that might, though, be quite unfashionable. I wonder what. A senator doesn't agree with me, because it's not supposed to be about our interests, it's supposed to be about the interests of the poorest people in the world, that the underlying greed for this money, e.g. to participate in related tasks, such as some form of geothermal products or other items that are not really to be given this particular amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u113	Madam President. All I can say is that I hope it isn't. I hope that there are no steps to take money from the development work in Malawi and Mozambique and Uganda that concern mothers and children and education and health care for others. I don't believe in it. I think it's more of a short-term waste to get to the Ministry that's in trouble due to surgery. Not only has Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir pointed out and criticized that this arrangement is impossible but it is almost most negative in this regard. It has been mentioned here, and it may now be right to reiterate that the arrangement that is exactly the same as the arrangement of the local people, with local policies and services being carried out by the Ministry, which is most commonly carried out by the Agency, is the most common among the DAC countries. This is also shown in the committee's list of my section. This is the most common arrangement. This is what Italians are now going to because they think it's much better. It is widely recognized that policy and monitoring are carried out in one place and then carried out in another. It is similar with the Council and the Commission's implementation of policy and surveillance here, but then we commit the Commission to enforce the policy. The same should be true in the case of development cooperation and an institution that has made such a good word and there is no need to settle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u114	Madam President. The report continues to include the introduction of the European Development Agency, which is often abbreviated by the SSSI, from a specialised agency to the Ministry of State, i.e. They are to submit a special profession and enter the Ministry for Ministers and Officials. We have sometimes talked about the need to build trust in society, and I think it is very important in the coming years to try to glorify it, so the people may find some confidence in this institution and in the interior of society. This action will clearly not be done. It's not just any institution. It's a professional institution with a lot of expertise that's been working well for tens of years, and it's stable, perhaps because politics has actually been outside the Bureau. She has done her primary part and has done it well, so attention has been paid. However, now the Agency is to be taken and transferred in whole into the State Department, which makes the Agency directly under Ministership and, therefore, under the politics. It hurts, and it's wrong. I decided before going on a public talk to discuss this important matter, to learn a little more about the activities of the Agency. I pretended to know about the situation, but I decided to dig deeper and found that the Agency works mainly in three countries, i.e. Mozambique, Malawi, Uganda These are very poor countries where people live in dire need, and the Agency has contributed a great deal to the relief of life there, as it has been possible. In these countries the Agency has placed special emphasis on caring for women and children, promoting education and health care. The Agency has spent money building wells and fighting cholera. In other words, it is easy for these people who live in this misery and perhaps in many times to bring them life. In Malawi, Mozambique, Uganda, and Malawi, we turn back from the Institute of Development for Iceland's wells. I'm not the star that I can't take part in changing things, and I'm relatively open to them. However, there is also reason to reason, and that need to be reasoned. It must be done in this matter too, especially if we consider what this organization is doing, what trust it is enjoying, and where it is being brought. Change may be fine, but it needs to be logical. In this discussion, there is no one here to discuss these matters. Is this transformation professionally good? In this regard, with the permission of the president, I would like to quote a good opinion by the Committee on State Affairs, which says: ▪ There is an analysis of the problem to be solved by bringing down the European Development Research Agency (TheSSI) and bringing her project into the Ministry of State. On the contrary, the THRE has been a success and is praised for its work, including the results. from the OECD Development Committee, DEC. There is no sound evidence in the bill for the establishment of the Agency. On the contrary, it is specifically stated that the Agency has done such a good job in the field, as it is recorded in the literature. I'm going to repeat this phrase: To the extent that it is taken, I have done such a good job. It is also said that the THRE has made many progress in independent assessments. In this light, the Foreign Minister's bill is to decompute the Agency in a harsh way. I have to admit, it's also very confusing to me. There's an institution that's had its share in the independent reviews. She has had great praise, so her work is still to be done. Let's put her down. Let's move this institution into a state-of-the-art environment and public surveillance subsidiary into a political agency with less monitoring. Will it increase the confidence that we so like to talk about? I don't think so. In my words, I'm trying to figure out a reason for myself that would recommend this, and I'm dealing with what I would like to call the professional program and try to reason on these changes. I have listened to a few talks here, which, of course, are only from government opposers. There does not seem to be much of the urge to speak for this matter. That makes sense to me. I wouldn't want it myself because it's a big responsibility. Then, with the permission of the president, I would like to quote again in the above - mentioned opinion: ▪DAC is hatched by saying that with Iceland's involvement in the development network, Iceland's unique approach will be beneficial, and 30 years of experience will be of benefit to her. It is therefore difficult to arrive at a conclusion other than that the DEC assessment provides the YSSI and the European Development Teams with a very good grade. Very good grade. But put her down. Let's move her, let's make her an opaque man. Somewhere, people are trying to get control of something I don't understand. Somewhere, you're trying to get some thread, some dark thread, and no one here is ready to come and defend it. Nobody's ready to come up here and tell me why they're doing this. It is not as if this institution is characterized by skunky practices and poor practices. On the contrary, the Agency has given rise to world attention, including global attention. In order to find out if any points could not be taken from her functions and used in their activities, the German Sister Agency requested to get to know the function of the SISSI. Mr. President. I've lived in Germany, and I know that nation well. There are very good people who usually work, and I honestly thought there weren't many things we in Iceland could teach Germans. I've been saying that there are a lot of things they could teach us. But there's something we can help them with, and they want to go. I would like to continue quoting this excellent committee opinion of my section by permission of the president: During discussions at the General Parliament and at the Committee meetings, ministers and representatives of the State Department of State were desperate to cooperate with the DSSI Ministry and if there were any examples of the lack of communication between TheSSI and foreign parties with Iceland's foreign policy. The members of the Ministry gave a fine witness in general. The only example mentioned was that before a decision was made, the proposal for homosexuality in Uganda had to be made several times between the Ministry and the district office. The practice of homosexuality in Uganda was what had to be shared. Otherwise, nothing. The work was so good that it could best be put into practice with regard to homosexuality in Uganda. I'm going to continue, with the permission of the president, and read from the committee's opinion: However, similar communication between the field and the Ministry is universal and is in complete harmony with the general procedure in the foreign service. It is obvious that the THRE experienced this exchange, but as a disagreement ends this situation particularly in its review: ▪ Then the staff of the Agency will always be careful to follow Iceland's foreign policy to the limit and express the government's policy, the State Department of State wishes. For example, a discussion on homosexual issues in Uganda, where the district manager of the Development Agency followed the direction of the Ministry in all communications with the government and other donated countries. This means the Agency is working professionally. She cooperates with the foreign service and always endeavors to make peace and to keep professional interests first. I could continue to discuss the professional element that I think needs to be considered before men make such a dramatic decision, as seems to be the intention of a greater part of the Generals, Independence Party, and the forwarding party. But I haven't yet found any professional arguments, and no one has come forward to present them. Then I'm gonna go over to the business. Change may be justified if we are able to use the subject as a reason. I thought, after reviewing the professional show, which was no one, that there must be some huge economy of this. Sadly, though, none came in that bag either. While the Agency is run by contributions from the government fund, the Norwegian Development Fund has entrusted the Agency to use 700 million in relief work. A trustless institution is not assigned to use 700 million to do good things. It is clear that it has apparently earned a great deal of respect and is an approved branch in the sector. That's a lot of money. I'm going to quote again to the Committee my part of the State Department where it says about the business: The reviews and comments of the delegates to the committee also stated that the management board developed in a way that policy and monitoring of its implementation were carried out but carried out on the hands of professional institutions. This is in the spirit of the firm guide Foreview over the past 20 years on the lack of supervision and conduct. This is very clever, not to be conducted and monitored on the same hand. But that is what is to be done. There is no evidence to suggest that the management business is somewhat lacking and needs to look deeply at it, as it is stated that 20 - year - old State Review never made a comment on the accounting or the activities of the Agency. Then I'm done with the ran - out arguments, and they're as poor as the professional argument. I also saw that countries such as Italy, which are reevaluating their comparable institutions, have visited Iceland with the intention of moving their activities into the form that has been established here. It's not the business argument, it's not the professional argument. What, then, can be the reason for this? Why do people want to go on this road? This is completely non-convincing, and no one is ready to participate in that discussion and try to measure the situation. I understand that. I cannot help but pick them up in the context of what might be the reason. True, it has been stated and stated in the Committee of the Memorial in this case that it appears that officials in the Ministry of State are particularly eager to get the Agency directly under themselves. That has been six times in the past 20 years an attempt to capture this institution, this professional institution, under the Ministry. Six times in 20 years. Fortunately, foreign ministers up to this point have supported the efforts of the officials. But it doesn't seem to be now, unfortunately. But we need to ask ourselves, " Who is in charge of the State Department, and who is in charge in this country, or is it politicians, or government officials? ' If it's official and the commander's office. A minister would have come up with arguments, professional or business practices, and the situation would have been different. Another reason that might be, and it's only been tore, here, is some kind of horse trade between the parties. Now, no doubt, at times a horse trade is made in politics, as it is elsewhere. I've been with horses for 40 years, and I sometimes buy horses, and I was very active over a period of time. But this is just a matter that we cannot allow ourselves to do that. We're talking about trust. We're talking about poor people we're working with, so they have water, so they have food, so they have treatments for malaria and other things. We cannot afford to buy horses in this regard. I sure hope this doesn't seem right, but I haven't heard anyone who says anything or tells me why this is all happening. As long as no one does, I'm getting caught up in believing that this is a horse's wedding. These are government officials who want to get the money out of this special department into the Ministry, into less transparency, into less professionalism, or that it's a horse wedding or both. Mr. President. Now, I'm running out of time this time, but I'd like to finally say, of course, it's not acceptable to discuss such a big case, and a minister isn't here to answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u115	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk, and there are two things I would like to ask about. First, in view of the greater part, the matter was previously resolved from the committee to the 2 Corinthians. A., although it has not been requested, and the discussion will be supported by the discussion that took place then. Interestingly, though, three new members of Parliament sign this committee opinion, the head of the Committee itself, and then two candidates, who seem to have been content with the fact that other members of Congress have covered the matter and are involved in it and are in the role of some sort of financial agency. This is very much in the mind of how the administrative body treats the council these days, where the council is considered to be a matter of secondary importance, though it is necessary to label a particular matter. I'd like to ask the senator how he feels about that process. On the other hand, because he was talking about getting married, I want to discuss a developing teamwork committee that is being laid down in the present form, where members of Congress are selected, and then there is a developing body of cooperation, which is a adviser for the committee. The evidence is that there is little connection between committees and members of Congress. I'm not familiar with this, because we in the United States regularly call our people the most separate projects. Now, in order to ensure the more available assembly, a development committee is to be appointed with members of the Parliament. To me, this is the last thing involved in improving the quality of the Committee, and I ask the senator, in view of his words about horse purchase: What is this other than the bitings of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u116	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the queries. Of course, it's not good for members of Congress to sign a committee opinion in such a big matter as going through it well, especially in a case that's actually supposed to be completely free of politics. In my mind, this should be, not some right or left political bitch, but, above all, a good case that we've done well and noticed that we did it that way. But people are going to take it up with their roots and take it from a transparent channel to oscillation, and there is a danger of less professionalism, which gives them greater opportunity for suspicion. Disrespect is something that we need to work on if we are to gain confidence. For a development team. I talked about changes earlier and that there would be need for men to reason with them professionally and professionally. Of course, this is no short argument. Somehow, it's thrown in. I wonder, but I can't figure it out. That's what I have to say to what. A senator. I don't understand. I see no reason why it's being taken to this channel. The political on this important matter has to be completely out. Therefore, I would like to encourage men to try to stop and review this and see if there is a better solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u117	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. It is clear that the Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon's government has little interest in developing cooperation. They began the terms here by cutting down contributions for development cooperation, in order to reduce hunting costs and taxes on those with higher income, it was decided that those who had the best means to pay for them would be people who do not have access to clean water, women who are giving birth to children in completely unacceptable circumstances, often die of childbirth and children with them, or suffer serious damage and then die soon after birth. This is the focus of the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugsson in the development community and is now seeking to place members of the Parliament in a special role in developing cooperation. During this council, we'll be dealing with convergences of development, resulting in the development of policy development. Then we choose people who have special insight into the seminar class to work on a developing team committee. At least the Conspiracy does, and I suppose the rest of them do too. Then we'll contact the people who have this job to review the situation if there's anything we're worried about. That's how things work. If the general population is so distressed that they can't get information and get involved with things unless they are specifically appointed to some tourist club, then they should start looking for a new role in life. I reiterate it and ask the senator: Isn't this just a tourist club for the nice senators?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Now I don't know exactly what kind of club this is, but this club is responsible for a lot of responsibility and needs to be careful and those sitting in front of their deputies need, of course, to inform their people about what's going on. This is completely incomprehensible, for the memory of the Council has, I think, offered a very direct discussion of a good solution in this matter. It's taking the case off and waiting for a newDC report to arrive in some month, not long after. I find myself suspicious of knowing that the administrative part is not prepared to wait for that report. What are they afraid of in the report? That's what I was wondering. THOSE has been working for ten years, building up experience, knowledge, professionalism, and months to or from time to time changing this, if men are going to devil it through, they can't matter. I'm surprised that people don't want to enter this dance, especially when the Agency has done as good a job as ever. Once again, I urge Mr. President to do everything in his power to bring this matter into a better direction for the good of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u119	V.E.G. President. Hv. In his speech, a senator said that he was not such a tiger that he would not be prepared to look at any changes if there was reason and reason. True, this is very special in view of his being a member of the VG. But I'd like to ask why. A senator whether in the report with the bill is not a substantial support for the change. In part, it shows that developing cooperation is one of the main policy of Iceland's foreign policy and one of the largest case groups in the Ministry. Moving TSSI into the Ministry is ensuring that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are in harmony and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy, as well as that which the Icelandic government uses as a single voice regarding international development cooperation. Then you will find a detailed description of it. 7 on synergy and efficiency. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Moving the project onto one hand is simplifying the organization. A better overall vision will be gained over the group of subjects and policy development will become more targeted in the case of one responsible responsible responsible person. Compatibility will increase, implementation will become more efficient and integrated effects of Iceland's work in developing cooperation. [...] With all developing cooperation in one hand, increasing the power of projects, promoting flexibility and co-ordination, and preventing the overlap of policy development and implementation. In addition, there is a reduction in the quality of the problem and in the management and in the development of double pain. This is a detailed rationalization. I can fully appreciate that the same arrangement may be better, and it is supported by men. Here, though, is a detailed reason, since there is always a call in the discussion that there is no evidence and that there is a need for discussion. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator on this argument?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for his questions. I'd like to point out that the argument is sound. In view of the reasoning against this, a senator rightly mentions the poor insignificance. I want to, in this context to wonder, if it's so good that it all would be more efficient, because in very rare cases it wasn't long ago that people were setting up a new institution that's probably not an institution, moving out of a ministry called tour or whatever it was. It now seems to be working in different directions with the government. Then I'd like to quote the Commission on permission of the president: Jón Einarsdóttir Jónína Einarsdóttir, einn of the heldri þróunarfræði á the land, vera ómyrk in í umsögn hún skrifa fyrir the social félagsvísindasvið of the Háskóli of Ísland. She criticizes the bill and suggests that the YES will be promoted instead of decomposed. Professor Jónína concludes with Davíð Oddsson at his time, and in his conclusion he suggests that the TESSI will not be put down but that its site will be extended and the Agency shall be committed to the further application of the Minister's two - sided and multi - story development cooperation of Iceland's Iceland's newest and the Agency will be assigned to continue to the office's office on the behalf of both two - sided and multi - term cooperational cooperation of the European Union's 1997.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u121	V.E.G. President. I realize there's evidence in and against it. But what I find hard to understand, which has been here all day and yesterday, is that there's no evidence for the bill. Of course, they are quite important, and they seem to each one of them. However, since the Ministry of State has part of this sect and is responsible for it, it can be said to have a large part of it, i.e. Development teamwork, with a special department, one of the largest departments in the Ministry, would be able to say that there was an option in keeping it under one hat. Because they've talked about the professional factor, that's all that's been possible but that the knowledge of science in the Developmental Research Institute is going to be in the Ministry, i.e. the same staff will be there. So I'm not worried about the subject, at least there's evidence to support the economy, my double-work, more money. Then, of course, people can suspect that the coin will be used for something other than this. There may be some conspiracy theories on this. But in a prince's hand, it should be so that there would be more money, all in one hand, easier to shape a course and use the money, etc. That's what I call a great argument in itself. But, of course, I can quite understand that people don't agree, and they just want to have it in a special institution, and it's always gonna be more powerful and professional. It's all right, man can have that opinion, but I don't think that's the occasion for spending many days talking about it and saying that there's no argument about the bill and repeating the same talks over and over and over again and again, and the same answers over and over again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for his inwards. It's certainly good that someone from the top of the board takes time to come here and talk to us, and I especially thank him for that. I wanted others to take time with it on these jobs. Of course, it's like that. One senator noted that most cases have evidence against each other. Hv. A senator may have mentioned a potential for economic practicality, but the conclusion does not seem to be the case once these issues have been considered that a major result will be the case. We are not to sacrifice the current transparency of the Agency by bringing it into the ministry's transparency that will compromise all other rules. Because we're talking about trust then, we've got to focus a little bit on putting it up to put it up to be the opening point, although an institution like this is totally superior to another, as it has been. Six attempts have been made to establish this agency into the Ministry by government officials, ministers have so far survived until now. Who knows, I certainly hope that on some other basis, a body of councils would be able to settle over this matter and find a conclusion that is more at peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u123	Mr. President. The recent loss has been a major source of refugees in Europe. Of course, many of the people who flee here are fleeing from conflict in many parts of the world, and I believe that, in fact, there are economic reasons for which much of this conflict is explained, as well as the failure and failure of money that are not at the end. However, not all refugees are running away from conflict, for unfortunately, all too much of mankind lives in poverty. I think some of these refugees live in poverty at home and are running from them. Add to that the climate change, with its effects on soil quality and human ability just to survive at home with all of this. Even now, when we talk about the number of refugees, we are talking about the move of the land. I don't think that most of these refugees would like to flee their home where they know and drive their families, since it is unlikely that a large family would end up in a similar area when people are getting something away. I feel that developing cooperation and discussion are relevant to the global and globalized picture that we face during the season because developing cooperation is being strengthened by poor society and is helping people to save themselves and to build themselves and their future in their own homes. It is not least due to the global hieroglyphic film that when we are dealing with development cooperation at the Allied Council of Iceland, we are not talking about a vision, a goal, how we can raise Iceland's donations, which is among the richest nations in the world, so that it will be better when it comes to offering money and helping the poorest countries in the world to strengthen and build up their own resources. No, we're not. We're not talking about the founder's wall here. Later, I'm going to use my talk to help find out why I think this changed sophistication causes me to weaken developing cooperation and to be a step in the wrong direction. I'd like to, too, before we continue to reiterate what has been presented here many times, both today and yesterday, both in speeches. Councilmen, as well as members of the conference board at the top. President, and that's at the top. Secretary of state is not at the discussion. Although it is possible to say that the matter is at 2 Peter 3: 13. in the Senate custody it's the issue of putting down an institution, the development community of Iceland, and bringing all development cooperation into the Ministry of State, the Ministry of State. Secretary of state. I feel that this is why he has a rich obligation to attend and participate in the discussion, since he was at 1st. The matter still rests on questions we ask. The members of my sector are directly at the highest level. The minister and he don't think we've had satisfying answers. Then there's something big about the 2nd. in the conference on this matter, it is only a lesser part that talks about it. Nevertheless, it was so that the matter was at this council running quite quickly through the water. State Department. I find it odd that in view of the thought that it would have to have had faster hands, and the argument was that the case had a detailed discussion during the previous council, which is, of course, true and I think, good, if they hadn't. The members of the greater part stressed to speed up a discussion on the subject, not on the rosary to defend the committee opinion they gave their name and suggested that the bill be accepted as unchanged. In fact, it's my opinion of a committee party. More than a part of the State Department that it is little more than extracting the bill's report and not really except in the final paragraph, which is directly related to most of it. Named. In this regard, the larger part at any rate emphasizes the need for the efficiency and effectiveness of international development teamwork and the effectiveness of it to be run with the best results. That's exactly what we members of the Parliament have in our talks today questioned the fact that this bill is going to do. I would have liked to hear, we should say more defense against this bill and be able to have more reasoning on the matter. It's absolutely true that we've been standing here from the smaller parts and trying to give the best we can explain why we feel this bill is about putting down a developing research agency and moving into the Ministry of State. All that said, I'm going to do a little better with the argument. Among the smaller things. The foreign committee, as well as other members of the government's stand, has criticized their talks, is that we simply consider this bill to be indiscriminate and vague and must be based on misunderstandings. We cannot see the problem to solve by decommissioning a developing cohesion agency simply because we do not see what is going on with a developing research agency. On the contrary, there is evidence, and everyone seems to agree that the development of a research organization was a perfect model and was successful. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir declared that at the UN General Assembly, she received praise and commendation for the work of the Development Agency, many of which have been identified in all kinds of independent reports made. The report, with the bill itself, highlights and uses the evidence that the Assessment made in Iceland's development partnerships and is suggested from 2013 by the government to evaluate the organization of developing cooperation and to consider how to achieve maximum effectiveness and efficiency. However, it is not in the DAC study to find any evidence that the Agency is to be decomposed by a developing cohesion agency but, rather, in all other places for which the Agency is being considered to be effective. That is especially true, although Iceland may be small and our contribution to development in view of many other Western countries, the money may be extremely useful. That's what I think is extremely important to me. In fact, it is worth pointing out that DAC's assessment of development cooperation followed the conclusion of the Council and planned to spend much higher in developing cooperation than is currently being done. Of course, in view of this, it is only natural to put the stitches on how money is taken, when the injection is to be given. However, it has been changed, and it may be possible to doubt, in view of the current contributions to development, how much or how much this is involved in the discussion, as it is now being taken into account. There is one subject that has been very thoughtful to me throughout this discussion, and I made it a special subject for cover 1. The point. One of the things I believe is the most widely proposed proposal to put down the Developmental Cooperation Institute and transfer the entire operation into the Ministry is that it can thus strengthen the link between developing and other foreign organisations. I feel really bad about it, and I have to say that after the brief discussion given to the Foreign Affairs Committee at this council, where I am a new member, nothing else happened but that I was strengthened in my belief that it was a very bad arrangement to plan to mix these two together. This was repeatedly shown in the visitor's case at a meeting in a wind. The Foreign Affairs Committee that to strengthen the link between other foreign countries and development cooperation carries the risk that development cooperation will be linked to other factors and related to the foreign policy and that the danger is that developing cooperation will no longer be driven only by the interests of the poor but will be guided by the commercial interests of Iceland, which is as I said before one of the richest countries, to become more important in this discussion. Among the points pointed out to the committee was the fact that evolutionism was a long - term race and that it was a constant race, not dependent on political paraphernalia. It also appeared, as I was saying, that it would not be expedient to mix commercial interests with political relations. Nevertheless, it was noted that, of course, it is important to do business with developing countries and that business barriers are not good, but they are two completely different and separate things that should not be mixed together. On the one hand, we would be involved with the development team, which is run on the grounds of the Protestant states, the poor states, and the business that we can hopefully apply to the states when they have only built up their infrastructure and strengthened their positions. I have to admit, this is a big thing that's really sitting in my mouth because I think it's so bad politics in all places. As I introduced at the beginning of my speech, my belief and belief are the root causes of conflict, and I just want to take so much of my years to tell many of the world's problems, to be explained by a profit - benefit - trade that Western countries have over the years, and centuries to exploit other countries. I'm afraid this is where we're finding a way to continue the profit but under the beautiful name of development teamwork. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I'm ready to stand here for a long time and talk against it and I'll do it as long as I think I have to. There's something else that happened to you. The Foreign Committee is afraid that knowledge and knowledge will be lost by bringing the entire operation into the Ministry. Developmental work requires specialisation and knowledge of evolutionary cooperation, while the Ministry is working in a very different way. The design of transport duties on employees makes it more likely that because of the way the Ministry is built up, there will never be any professional knowledge. I think it can still encourage us to take the simple approach and think how we can make the most of it, how we get the most out of it. V.E.G. President. I see that time has run away from me. I haven't come to almost all the points I wanted to address in this matter. [[The president calls.]] So I think I have to ask that I be put back on the rosary and then I can finish going through my notes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u124	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For an excellent speech and a fine passage, a senator Steinunn Þóra - year - old Árnadóttir She's sitting at my desk on behalf of the Left Green, and I'm sure she knows a lot about it. This is a challenge to the fact that this issue has been settled from that committee, and I wonder, and I would like to know, in effect, what it was that happened, who it was, and why. That's the first question. Another question I'm interested in asking why. A senator turns to the fact that when you read the following information on the bill from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the main objective is to promote increased efficiency and efficiency in the management of Iceland's international development team and to improve the policy of the group. So when you read the case through, it's not really offering any economics, there's no change in housing, no change in staff matters, and really no change except to become some kind of profit and money that will not be saved directly to the job. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she will trust that she will. Then I'd like to ask a lot of questions. I know that I probably have to come up with many conversations more often in an effort to shed light on the matter. However, based on what I read from this, I would like to ask: " Is this just the way a minister can directly control where the projects are carried out, how they are worked, and especially by whom they will be performed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Regarding the reason why the matter was settled, the committee considered that more things were wrong. The Foreign Affairs Committee reports that the matter had been very well discussed during the last session. I don't doubt it. I don't think it really was. But as a new member of the committee, I would have wanted more time to settle down. It was suggested that prior to the recent reviews, and that's true, but I feel that as a new member of the committee, I must try to put myself in good shape. I will admit that especially when I have serious doubts about how the matter is leading to good, I feel that I have even more responsibilities to do deep things. Hv. A senator also asked about efficiency and practicality, but if it is, it should go straight into the seminar and whether I trust that it will be. I don't know. I'm sure, if there's any practicality, you might not have to question her going into the lawsuit. But what I think is the big question that remains is just that. A senator pointed out whether the minister will not be able to have more control over the use of the funds or to increase the money that in the future will hopefully be assigned to development cooperation. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think it's a big deal, it's more of a chance for political interference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u126	A respectable president. I'd also like to ask who. A senator's comments in her talk that this too is an integrating group of issues, as stated in Article 12. The bill, the Peacekeeper. Regarding that article, it says under the permission of a president: ▪ Peace, security, and development are closely linked, and increasing emphasis is now laid on the importance of the coordination of these factors in the work and approach of international institutions. I wondered, since I only know specific projects, how peacekeeping, and the advance level in Malawi work together, how peacekeeping, and the development of programs to bring warm food to children in Malawi. This raises many questions that we are in the nature of the matter, in accordance with the couple of days that have not been answered. I'd like to hear more about the senator's thoughts on this integration and whether it could be dangerous and what her faults are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. It's a part of the bill that's been inconspicuously discussed here, because that's maybe a big deal, i.e. cut-off of the development research agency as the main force in speeches. Councilmen have joined and reasoned why we feel it is so bad. This point has been a little out of focus during the discussion, so there have been much less questions. I don't know how much this point was discussed at the moment. The Foreign Affairs Committee for the Last Parliament, where I was not a member of the Committee, but this is not one of the major issues we have been discussing today on the committee. I think it's true that it can be dangerous to mix such different things together, I agree with that. A senator on that, and I don't quite see how this works. These are enormously different things. Of course, the need for peacekeeping is needed, but I have thought that developing cooperation, as it were, should be the main formula for building up interiors and caring for basic needs, such as building wells, building latrines, securing health care, and so on. I feel like there's a combination of things that might be in different canoes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u128	A respectable president. Little because of what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. I think it would be right to assume that before this matter was discussed at this council, it was discussed in a Senate hall for 22 hours. Along with the time we've been discussing it here today and yesterday, I believe we're getting to about 30 hours that we've been discussing it. I can't quite say there's a small issue going on. In addition, the matter has been discussed and addressed to 12 meetings of the foreign committee. I know some people made it a topic of publicity here in speeches, not necessarily the last one. A senator who has been made quite significant, that the matter had not been adequately discussed in a foreign - language committee. All guests as loud as possible. In this round, members of Congress were invited to the Foreign Affairs Committee - all of them. When the case was taken out of there, it was cool to take it out. It was also done now. I know why. A senator can agree with me. The matter was sent to the comments of all who had the permission to comment last, even to those who had not seen why they had not given reviews during the previous council. All of this was done according to the book to ensure that members of the Parliament had all the information. That is why we took the time to study and discuss the matter. Like what? A senator mentioned, but she said something about the fact that, despite much discussion, after a discussion on the committee, she had been even more convinced that she was opposed. I was even more convinced that I was in favor with the case after the discussion. I think we, a respectable president, are in that place in this case that it is almost no matter how many hours we talk about it in and out of it because we just disagree. We simply disagree after this long discussion, both at this council and at the previous council, and at the Foreign Affairs Committee at that assembly and again now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u129	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir says that the matter was taken from a foreign press committee. That's, I'd like to say, completely deep this year. I can't say that it was cool, but it's certainly true that no one would violate the fact that the case was taken out in order to be held out. I think there's a pretty big differences in blood. All right. Of course, visitors and discussions with a committee come each one. A senator's conclusions. Me and what. Clearly, a senator has come to differing conclusions. It's all right, it's political. Like a snooze. A senator said that we simply disagree, but I think we're more than just having a disagreement, we don't agree. There will be nothing to do with the fact that those who disagree with this matter are deeply at odds with it. We think it's a reason. The members of the greater part have not done very much by making their arguments in the discussion, but in an outstanding answer, which is certainly fine. Recently, the Senate was able to get into a difficult situation - because of the tremendous depth of the gap between us because, like a whale, it is. A senator pointed out that the matter has been discussed for hours, both in the Hall and on the committee, but we're not getting involved, that's more I think I'll get even more involved in the case - and then I just want to think about it: should we just take the matter back somehow and try to get it settled instead of standing here for hours and arguing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u130	A respectable president. I don't disagree with what I'm going to do. For example, a member of the body of elders said that there was no objection to a committee's dissuade. This was made clear in the matter of why. A member of Parliament and other members of the government opposition found a foreign committee that they would have liked to keep the matter longer and much longer on the committee. You're absolutely right. The point is, though, that there was no disagreement, and no one voted against finishing the matter. We showed one another that it was over. A respectable president. I think we're right next door. A senator says he's got a lot of money. Therefore, it is not a question of whether the matter has been discussed too much or too little, whether there are too few answers, too many, or how the matter is handled, we simply disagree. We took the case back, the case was postponed at the last council and returned to this council, it has been returned to the committee. We've picked it up over and over again, but we can't agree on it. I think it's the only thing in the situation to use a democracy method and vote on the matter. That's why I think it's a long time for a vote on the matter and then I'll get the position of the senators, and then I'll finish the case. I think, a respectable president, we can't make it, like, what? A senator said himself, a solidarity through this conversation we have here, unfortunately, the most successful choice of the matter is to vote for it and let the democracy rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u131	Mr. President. I believe that part of the situation in which the Allied Parliament is in and part of the nation's lack of faith in our work here is the understanding that we often put into democracy, i.e. We're just paying votes and the majority of the items, and maybe on a matter of great controversy. I'll keep up with what I said. I don't think we're gonna make it through here with the conference discussion, but in the name of democracy, we should try to make some peace, since everyone has to be ready to make compromises and try to be a bit of a solution. I think it's possible to make peace and deal with the situation so that everyone can enjoy themselves, but then we'll have to back up again. We have to sit back with the highest. Secretary of state at the table and is simply more concerned. Is there another way to think about this? I don't think taking a case that's so incontrovertible to anyone, and letting just a clean part of it, even if it's totally legal. That's what we always do here, but I don't think it's advisable in the extremely important matter of developing teamwork for poor people in the world today. I feel that we are simply obliged to put some extra on us and not just settle the matter with a simple more part at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u132	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start my speech at the top of my speech. The president is about to take a stronger stand with the council. In these matters, we are yet another journey to see how the European Commission ignores the entire council and sees it as a tiresome formality that a case has to go through here. We have many examples in this ideal period that the government and the government are worth ignoring the memory of the object. For example, we have the case of a currency head who ran against a certain law change without having enough information. We have, for example, the work done in a frame plan where it was supposed to be destroyed by politics, but the smaller part was able to stop it. We have seen the signal when the minister of foreign affairs passed the council by letters to the EU on the foreign policy of the Icelanders rather than on the council, he was afraid to do so. We've seen the highest. The prime minister allows himself to ignore the petition made by members of the council, including me, on the matter of insurance, although it is evident in the Senate that he is to grant such requests. I ask myself, Mr President, which way are we with the Allied Council of Iceland? There was one before. A senator who is still sitting here in this hall, pointing to the collapse of the Allied Council as being like a post office, was like a cashier here. Then there was a crash, and then there was a left control. At that time, the criticism was just as critical. People didn't have a lot of pressure on the government. This was often a lively exchange of thought. Some thought it was enough. But there was the criticism of a big issue. During this council, the members of the board are being heard. Let us be if, at least, they were willing to come and express support for the issues here being run through. But no, they don't take very little time to come up here in a pita except at the council. And, individual senators, I'm not going to belittle it - of course, there are a number of senators on deck, but in large and controversial cases, which they then support here, most of them have not been able to argue for their support. It was also this way during the last term that marked a dramatic change, since suddenly Congress business began to get approved. In this terms period, it has dried up but, apparently, it subtracts. I hope there's a change that's come to be. I want to challenge the highest. Presidents to address the executives, to recognize that there is a state of Congress in Iceland, and then the members of the Congress should take a serious discussion with their councils and inculcate in members of Congress the role they have according to the Constitution. It's not a disgrace to the Ministers. It's to work for the interests of the public in Iceland. V.E.G. A minister has not been able to attend the discussion when he intends to put down one of the institutions at his Ministry. It's because, Mr. President, he's on the special conference campaign of the parish Party called 'The Hill of the Houses' - the oceans are released. I can't remember whether it's been two weeks since I was here and I called for detailed information on the emissions of the ocean. It was not the intention of the government or the Commission to discuss it here in the Hall of Congress. No. But now the forwarding party is away from the council to discuss emissions with its members. This is the respect of the O.R. team for the Generals. At the same time, a foreign minister ignores his duty to make some ◯propaganda ~ about their actions. It would have been a pleasure if the members of the council advertised here, the highest. Ministers and ministers. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Ásmundur Daðason, Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, would have had so little to participate in the discussion of the release of capitalshft, are here engaged in the debate on the lack of information, and were negligent in the less part of the Council of the major economics. No, it is just a topic for discussion when they are suitable for them, at a place that is not suitable for them. The same game will play the Specialist Party now. They sign committees, but do not take too little time to be here and participate in discussions. This is shameful. I suggest that there be some efforts to improve this so that the General will not again become a cashier agency. Then we came to bless the bill. It's been through two times. Um... couldn't reach the 2nd. last but now it's in here and it seems to be one of the government's major policies to put down this developing research agency. It is scheduled to enter the Department of Foreign Affairs, which handles the diplomatic dealings of Icelanders with other countries. But what is the subject of the Development Agency? To help and arrive, in cooperation with the countries themselves, a developing cohesion agency is working on development through its partners, from poverty to cubits. There are 900 million people, less than one seventh of mankind, who do not have access to clean water. Each year, 1.5 million children under the age of five die as a result. There are many more children than five years of age and younger in all the countries of the north. They die because they don't get water. Among other things, the role of a developing cohesion agency has been a wide range of roles, both in education and health, but an important part of its work has been to make it possible for them to become wells so that people have access to water without having to walk long distances, which take time from education and schooling and culture and cooking. There are subjects on which this development organization is on its side. This is a work in which expertise is important and is a focus of evolution. As indicated by the members of my body, the Ministry of State is quite different. It says that the Ministry of State rests on the very fact that there are employees of the ◯generalists. For example, they are transferred between work stations, offices, and professions and therefore have limited means of building up a great deal of professional knowledge. I see no short argument in the members of the greater section or in the report how to cooperate with this contrast, this paradox, thereafter. It's been very well considered here what we in the lesser part see against this. Both of us feel that the report made by the staff of the Red Cross is not a document that can be based on a new trend for development and change completely. It has been quoted from the DiaC, the International Development Committee on how well YSSI or the European Development Organization has been successful in developing issues. I agree with the concerns that have been presented and the opinion of the latter part on putting down an entire institution without preconceiving a professional argument. It's not even financial reasoning, it's some kind of terminal that the Agency is better off in the Ministry, although it obviously doesn't fit in there. Even there is evidence that it is given further work from the Ministry. This is not the first time that such ideas have appeared. That was no less than six times in the past 20 years, pointed out by the State Department officials who wanted it. No minister so far could agree on the matter. In my committee's section, my body has put it so well that maybe it's just the lack of experience in the Ministry, having just one foundation, not being able to communicate properly with an agency, and giving responsibility, as the committee says. This form is also contrary to the guidelines given by the National Reconclusions, which consider it important that policies and surveillance are at the hands of the Ministry and the Office work in accordance with policy. It is also this DEC report on the Developmental Cooperative Agency. It is one of many praises for developing in the United States. In addition, it is requested by the Agency as an equal agent that will be available next year. It's peer criticism. These include reevaluating the development network of Iceland's development partnerships. It is totally incomprehensible, if there is any ambition for developing cooperation, not to wait for this assessment. As I was in opposition, the current government's ambition for developing cooperation is, unfortunately, little. She has been bleeding so that most people in the community could earn more money. Then, the Governments of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson discovered people who felt that they could bear the burdens, including the 900 million people who do not have access to clean water. It's the people who are normal to get less money from the Icelandic government budget when hunting costs need to be dropped. It was now that in 2011, when we were saving the state fund from bankruptcy, and we just got past it and still had a difficult cut, this was still a very ambitious plan for developing cooperation, that from the year 2017, 0.7% of GDP went to development. These are the standards of the United Nations that we equal and left men wanted to uphold. We wanted to fulfill this international commitment. We wanted to show the moral strength and responsibility that Iceland would share in bringing people from poverty to prosperity wherever they live in the world. A new government did not find itself in it, as I have entered, to follow this plan. Now that they're going to put down a developing cohesion agency, it is no surprise that we here in the smaller parts are getting chills. I had earlier described how much of the State Department handled this matter and was content to build on the former branch office. The head of the State Department came up here and spoke as if without a few cases had been as professional and well discussed as that of the Commission on this matter. I know that's not true. It is not a pleasure at my part with the way this matter was dealt with there. Then there's something that was discussed in the majority opinion that I feel very uncomfortable with, that they should take the present development committee and collaboration committees for developing cooperation, with members of various organisations from various advisers, and put them down. Some comments have been made that the work could be more efficient and so forth. In the opinion of the committee, the Allied Council chooses seven members of the Development Committee. So the nominee of a representative of it, and it is intended to ensure the presence of members of the Parliament to the goal of a policy discussion and the decision of long-term international development teamwork. Then there's this team of cooperation on international development as well. This was a vague change of practices - and it has been noted in the report of Guðmundsson Gudmundon, quoted above, that the activities of the development committee were of little purpose and that information is reluctant to be transmitted to the General Assembly. I just think it's a problem, Mr. President. In the United States, we choose our representatives for various projects, and we choose people who are best qualified to do so. It is also true of a developing teamwork committee. They're people we're in regular contact with, depending on our circumstances and circumstances, but when we need them, we call these representatives to us for written and discussed. That's how things work. You appoint someone for an assignment, and then he receives his commission to the one who appointed him. This is how it works in all social activities and also in the administration. Now we're going to lay this down. In order for senators who do not seem to have the opportunity to communicate with those whom they choose for a project to be clear, they themselves are going to sit down on the committee. I think of this as a date for the people of Congress and some kind of travel club. Senators have a wide range of insights into evolutionary cooperation. Congress may vary at any given time. However, we have been choosing people who have special insight and a knowledge of these matters. So it is a great setback, Mr. President, and no good evidence has been made that the development community is to be shut down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of her review. They raised questions when they listened to a review, it's the same with a sledge. It's kind of hard for a senator and me to understand what's hanging on the stick. There are few and much less, smaller, and poorer arguments, and they are not, neither are they, than the reasons we've been suggesting to leave the Agency alone. A body that has drawn attention to professionalism and good work, not just in this country, but abroad, and has been consulted with professional advice. This is the institution that we can be proud of, and Government Accounting has never made comments in the work of this institution in 20 years. That's why I want to direct that question to why. The senator would feel that we at the council Hall would stop and wait for the assessment that is currently being carried out by DiaC, a professional committee that makes this assessment. However, link it into the discussion of the Agency and this concept, trust, and its importance in an institution like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u134	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. First, I believe that the Davíð King Gunnlaugsson's Government has shown by her actions that it does not highlight evolutionary cooperation, and second, it appears to be at its highest level. The minister of foreign affairs is not strong enough on the ice regarding a vision in this case and has allowed officials to rule. We see here that no government is burning on this matter. There is no one who has strong faith that we are taking a very successful step in promoting development cooperation. I agree with that. paritaprevir Lelandus Lárus Hannesson says we should wait for all of us to make an assessment of FAC. She's coming next year. There's no rush. We have an approved development team that is being done after approval of the Generals, and that's normal when we discuss any group of subjects. This is an important group of subjects, and we should treat every class of cases with respect. We should not belittle the expertise there is, even though we as individual members of the council may not be particularly fond of us as members of the legal profession. I think it's a very good suggestion for the senator that we order the case to be postponed until the DA's peers are available, which is immediately next year. By mid - November, there is not much left in 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers that I thought were so good at what has been shown here today that the members of Congress are generally on it, at least the majority of those who have refused to comment, that the right to wait and wait for that professional assessment. You see, there is an incomprehensible rush in the matter, considering that it's just around the corner. I'm on the fact that this shouldn't be about the right or left politics or anything like that. It has to be over that sea. There's so much at stake, not just for us in Iceland, but for a lot of people in countries where the Agency has been most working. That's why I only want to come in on it and wait. A senator reacting to the feeling of mine or of what has come up here in the discussion that it's about some extent, and perhaps even more than we realize, of interest, that somewhere there's no interests, because professional or business arguments. There's been talk of horse trade and interests somewhere. Counts 'em out. A senator in the context that there may be a rock they're interested in accessing resources, geotherms, or such through the Ministry of State rather than a law-based institution?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u136	V.E.G. President. Yes, a horse's wedding. Current level. The government now considers the climate problem to be a special opportunity for Iceland, and it has also been observed to the highest level. The government believes that international development cooperation should also be a means of profit for Iceland. I may not be planning to get involved, but just these two statements suggest that the sense of responsibility is not large when it comes to big global problems. So I'd like to say that I disagree a little bit with the senator in terms of the politics, evolution team, of course, is not Catholic. It is about how we have a vision of a mistake. What view do we have of differences in power and wealth? What view do we have of the responsibility that we have as a member of the international community? I simply think that it is such that the current government will view most of it as a benefit. If we engage in something, it should be because of our primary efforts to heal, while other goals for moral obligations and such things are to be subdued. Of course, our feeling that we are speaking here today is that this matter is colored by that political vision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u137	Mr. President. I want to keep spinning that thread back there. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir dropped out here in his last answer. Hv. A senator came in quite handy and in a very striking way in his speech what the situation is in the poorest states of the world. The dreaded infant death and just a terrible condition. In this discussion, I feel that it is so important that we take this matter and what effect the changes we are making on our so - called foundation truism may have in the large world of poverty. Among the points presented to the Committee, it is difficult to observe how the funds for development are spent within the Ministry as it is much easier to monitor the way funding goes through an institution. In addition, when we take these out of the landstones what I came into my speech earlier, the vast Western world, and the richer countries against the poor kingdoms, we take them to heart. Are we not creating a dangerous cocktail that can, in fact, become a recipe for greater division in the world if we are going to bring our evolutionary cooperation into the issue that we can allow our political and commercial interests to dominate? That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me in worrying about this, and isn't this something we have to fight with our mouths and jaws?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u138	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Arjörn, and I'm going to use this opportunity, since she responded to me and thanked her for the wonderful speech she gave on the subject of grafting and profiting. Of course, developing cooperation is complex, but the basis for developing cohesion is to ensure access to health and education. We're making sure people have access to clean water. We're building health care so women can get help to feed babies. In times past, it was the leading cause of death for women in Iceland that they died in childbirth. This is the reality of all too many women in the poorest countries in the world to this day. And they die not only in childbirth, they die from many children. This is except for the HIV epidemic, which has been in many of the poorest countries. This type of development involves building on wood, which involves authority, since the best thing is that a state can manage its own structure and that a member of the countries and the management board can be helped to do this on its own terms. But this work doesn't belong at the State Department where diplomacy and interest protection for Iceland are, according to the nature of the case, in foreground. We're not here thinking about Iceland's interests. We are thinking of the interests of the states we are in developing cooperation, which, of course, are ultimately the interests of all of us, because they will build peace here in the world if people live in a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. How happy I am to hear that we speak in such a voice and have similar concerns! I'd also like to agree with what makes you even more nervous. In his speech, a senator said that the ambition of the present government for developing cooperation and the money spent in it adds even more to this fear. Another factor that really is the ultimate argument. For instance, a minister has used certain members of the council to address the matter. paritaprevir Brags the Brynjar of Níelsson, who answered earlier, debates the additive effect and practicality. These are the words referred to, but without an example, there are some examples of the place in which these synergistic and practical effects are maintained. It says that by moving the project on one hand, the organization can be simplified and the overall vision of the group and policy can be achieved by only one responsible person. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does this not apply to all organizations? Could we not use the exact same reasoning to simplify the matter? Let's stop with institutions, let's just let the Ministry handle this. Is there really anything in this matter besides in all other matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u140	V.E.G. President. That's a good question, but the government has answered no, having recently reached the highest level. A certain category of academic and cultural ministers from the Ministry and put it in a special agency. It is also true that it speaks of an additive effect and economic or economic management, but it is not shown to be a means of saving money by this process and is well spent, since we do not want to further reduce donations for development cooperation. There is, however, no one in the smaller section that says that there will be any change in the organization. It has been noted that there is probably too little of Iceland's two - sided development team in a developing organization. And we're getting peer reviews on the box. So we in our memory are not going against reviewing whether we should change the arrangement. However, we resist the fact that the institution of specialized knowledge and experience in developing cooperation will be put down to be inserted into Icelandic diplomas. It will reduce its strength and will change the nature of the operation, a work that has been promised by international sources. We are going to sacrifice an institution that has been fired in accordance with the rules, and a state reexamination has given an excellent grade. Nobody is willing to tell us why they should submit to Iceland's development partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u141	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about the President's conference board. I was calling to see if there would be a meeting tomorrow on the budget board, and it had been announced that it would be, with the government's proposal for the 2nd Environment. They'd be introduced. The Council plan is on 11 days, from now on, so it is clear that there is not much time. This morning the chairman of the legal committee says that it is clear that the discussion will not take place next week as planned. It is now at five o'clock on Thursday, many of the advance workers in the province, have been on their way to their own districts. I'd like to do the same thing tomorrow, and I don't feel that five o'clock on Thursday is not a date for whether and when it's going to be a budget meeting. I think it's totally unacceptable, a respectable president, and I'd like this to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u142	A respectable president. Of course, these are not acceptable practices. It's a big deal, as the Icelandic government budget and members of Congress hear that the discussion has been delayed, it has not been arranged for meetings with members of Congress if I know the facts correctly. This is, of course, below all caves, and it's also how Ministers don't bring their case in here. It just calls for smooth work in a hurry just before Christmas. Is that what the council wants? If we were real people, we'd walk by foot and protest these tactics together, all members of Congress. This isn't gonna work, Mr. Honorable President. I don't know how the Ministers are planning to get them through the council if they don't bring them in here, but they're standing at meetings in the city and announcing that they're going to finish the rest and this case by the end of the year. How will they do so? [[The president calls.]] Do they not need to have a relationship with us? Are we willing to let everything go through in December? My answer to that is no, and we should stick together to work here properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u143	Mr. President. In the media, we hear talk about the budget every year. They're hearing this on the radio, but there's no way to tell the people who are working on it. It must be quite strange, and especially since it comes from what happened. The chairman of a legal committee, who recently complained that Congress was on its way quickly. The reason for such a small amount of things to come on is because they had started all too early, but now it is too late. I'd also like to say about the debate on the Developmental Development Organization that there's no one here to talk to. There's a bit of a talk in the nothing - about that important institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u144	A respectable president. I'd like to make a decision that I'd rather be addressing Ásta Guðrún rather than Ásta G., since it's never been a custom. Besides, I want to complain only about the lack of planning in general at the council. We're talking about a meeting being arranged within 12 hours of notice, just a little more. Total disorganization identifies the way the council operates, and I see no better than it's a systematic lack of planning in order to beat members of the council. Lack of organization is a form of abuse of power and the way speech is scheduled, the way meetings are preached, and the way they handle it. They are trying to prevent members of the Parliament from getting ready properly, they are trying to prevent them from reaching out for the best possible sources. If people were at school or at some other job, no one would get offered, but here we feel all right. I don't think it's really embarrassing, and I don't think it's a good idea for the council at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u145	The President promises a relief and a wish to make a presentation of what's happened. A senator in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u146	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the concerns that have taken place. paritaprevir As far as the work is concerned, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter is on her feet. It's a legal committee. In fact, in the middle of November, we find that the work programme is already in an upset state. She's upset, and it's been two months of the current council. More importantly, in the state where there is no outside front, there is so much mismanagement in the council that after reading the morning coffee interview, the president of the General News reports it in the media. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, that there's no job planned. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] And he just accepts it from the President's chair. Yeah, I was also seeing this on the news, says the top. President. It's natural for such a remarkable, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u147	V.E.G. President. I took this morning in my speech with an urgent appeal to the president to pick up the subject before the council, strike the hands of the executives, and arrange for members of the council to meet with their members, and make them aware of their responsibility. It has now been found that the President of the Generalis is not in charge of the council but is indirectly doing so by the government. paritaprevir In fact, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who informed that there would be a meeting at the budget board tomorrow morning at the last meeting of the Committee, but then the members of the Committee heard in the news that it was not expected to be expected from the same senator and that it was likely to be postponed. I know the United States representative, okay? paritaprevir For example, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, had to change her plans, since she was obviously going to be at the meeting on Friday until she heard the news. At that time, it was a little difficult to decide how to organize your work when information presented at committee meetings was reassigned in the media. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Take control of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u148	Mr. President. It was with me like others that I heard it in the morning news through it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that the Allied Plan had collapsed, and I'm still on the Committee to Preside. I hadn't heard of it before. Besides, I was going to talk to the president about how embarrassing it is that we continue this discussion on the Developmental Research Organization. So we can list it to more than the highest members of the council. Secretary of State that we have responsibilities elsewhere, if that is the case. Now lies the day on Thursday, the routine is about to end here, so that the rest of us can use the rest of the week for the rest of the week to work in their district or elsewhere, and I think it's both unfair and unusual to expect the rest of us to continue here to find until night or night, or what it should be at the same time as the highest. A minister of foreign authority can play as he pleases, ignoring his duties in behalf of some of the few progressive men he may be able to round up at Isafjordur or Sheep's Book. I direct them to a respectable president that we are about to say good things. [[The president calls.]] We could have used the day more clearly in other matters that are on the program, but in any case, I think that is enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u149	V.E.G. President. For those of you who read the magazines this morning, I still have, information came to the chairman of the legal committee, okay? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, would have reported it there. The budget that's estimated next Thursday after a week would be delayed. Is that really true? Is it really true that the president of the Generals declared this morning that he also read it in the magazines like other members of Congress? I've got a bad leg. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, on the Presidency Committee, found on Monday as usual, and there was no discussion. In addition, I would like to agree with the viewpoint expressed by some members of the budget board, who live in the country and have to take care of their districts and go to their homes even, that it is totally unacceptable for them to see that the Senate's work is such that they may be able to learn some time later if there is a meeting tomorrow and if he is in the morning or in the morning. one or two hours. Five. [[The president calls.]] You can't have it like this and associate with members of Congress like this, except that it's not just the highest. The minister of state, who is in the long run for a press conference throughout the country, there are other members of the council who do not carry out their affairs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u150	A respectable president. I think we have to meet with members of the council right now because it's all in here. We have a council operation schedule and it's 11 days to go. At the same time, we are being told that 2nd is being delayed. ... abundant. Then we'll go through 2nd. The budget, the 3rd. The budget, the 2nd. budgets, 3rd. budgets, 2nd Environment. The band of these bills and 3rdrd sieges. The band. How on earth are we going to get over this? Here, people need to sit down and try to draw it up in the way they're going to work. Then there are motionless ministers at the same time in town telling people at their conferences that they will turn the bills into the council and have them paid for Christmas. That's what Eygló Harðardóttir did, the highest. Minister of society and housing, which has turned into the remaining contents of this council. Yet, at meetings in town, she says that she's going to get a home bill approved for Christmas. A respectable president. We're in a lot of trouble here. [[The president calls.]] Men need to take responsibility and try to take control of this council, sit down with members of the council even now, and try to draw up some practical plan. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u151	Speaking of taking control of the council, the president asks members of the council to respect a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u152	Mr. President. I'm almost ashamed to start this off in a half-naked tone, because it's a naturally serious matter. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir points out, this is a big steak today. This is, of course, amazing news of what happened. The members of a budget board read about the fact that meetings and discussions of the budget are being delayed. It is only hoped that this question will be asked who is in charge of the program at the council. I can't see any better than it's become. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. At the same time, I would like to say that I think we should stop today. V.E.G. A minister has not yet been here to participate in the discussion, and I don't think it's necessary for us to continue discussing these matters in the evening, as has happened then other members of Congress have not. Ministers also have other duties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u153	A respectable president. It is customary at the General Assembly that the chairmans meet on Mondays and review the sessions of the Parliament and the plans ahead and watch the work programme. The same is true of the presiding committees at their meetings. There are certain bodies of the council that need minimal respect. We need to assume that these institutions and meetings have a position and have a place to play. It is completely unmistakably unmistakably that it is repeating itself in what the chairman of the budgetary committee has some special reporting period in town that these are just some sort of comedy meetings, and the president of the council is taking the opportunity to stand up here and agree that the procedure of the council is involved in a statement. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir. The situation has come to include the less part of the council while the movers are all over the country to hold meetings with their people. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't work any more. It's getting so humiliating for the Generals. In order to review the situation, it is minimum to complete the discussion now and arrange for a meeting with members of the council. It's a complete disgrace, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u154	V.E.G. President. We've been informed that the Senate will stand here for an additional hour. I've been studying the rosary on the subject now scheduled, the development community, and it's a long time ago, and I think it's obvious that this discussion will not end today. Why? To some extent, perhaps to a large extent, and mainly to the highest extent. Secretary of State refuses to accept proposals to attend the council and answer such questions. V.E.G. President. The following is the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. Why not take your hand and discuss it? This will be followed by studies of the Mer and Waters, a unit of institutions. Don't we have to talk about it? [[The president calls.]] Why not use your time to do so? The next is the unity of the Oceanographic Institute and the Medieval Institute. [[The president calls.]] Is it not better for our time to set aside these controversial issues and discuss the issues below?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u155	The president still asks for a session of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u156	Mr. President. I've got to go back to the place where it's been left over. It is now high time for a meeting tomorrow, whether the government has agreed on some suggestions to make it a point. Um, which I think is extremely unlikely, considering that ministers are all over the country, planning to do some other thing - unless they're planning to make a decision about this in the morning and then the Secretary of State may be able to be in town to participate. At any rate, I feel inadequate to be in this uncertainty, and I ask the president to make sure that I know in just a few minutes whether there will be a legal hearing tomorrow or if I can expect to go home to my family until I have planned and used it better, both with my voters and with my family.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u157	Mr. President. Today, it has been observed several times that the work here is more liberal in comparison with what is known, i.e. Those who work here hear either in the media that the Senate is upset, but the other mail is that people are not usually there. It's very peculiar, considering the work I've known so far. It has also been said that the Senate will continue after the day, and this important matter will be discussed, which I think should be overthe standard political discussion. This is a huge case, so many people, both in the country and elsewhere, and I don't think it's too much to ask for a proposed DAC report on the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u158	Mr. President. During the past few days, I have requested that this discussion be interrupted for the highest level. Secretary of state to meet with the council. I've given these wishes to the highest degree. President. Now I see I've been picking up a place of goats to find wool. Of course, I wasn't supposed to, and maybe it explains that I've had no answers. I can see now that, of course, I should have directed my wish to it. Chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir. She has taken part in directing the council anyway and published instructions on how the council is going to do its work. In effect, I pray for her and her highest. Mr President, I'm sorry for my mistake. However, Mr. President, I'm going to allow myself to reiterate my wish and maybe even the highest. Mr. President did that to me, because I'm not a whisker. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, during the council, to bring my wishes to her. Then we'll see if she'll issue an order about it tomorrow like anything else. If the answer is positive, I'm sure it will, at least If she gets the support I've given for my request and because she's made aware of everything, that she agrees and the case will be postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u159	V.E.G. President. Whether or not. Including, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who has, as shown in the case of the night. paritaprevir The other day, the hosts of Össur's Skarphéðinsson, apparently taking over a program, gave a talk about the work of the council. With President's permission, what did he say? Senator: I'm going to pick up the glove for President. I think senators are describing a situation that is somehow justified because I've talked about it, and I've talked about it in many places that it was a mistake to speed up a Senate hearing. For the past five to ten years, the council has been stirred to such an extent that it is now operating. For example, I have never understood the cause of the fall since the first day of the assembly was October 1 each year. I just don't understand what's happening so far that there's not enough work for the council. Those are words. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir. So at the end of the uncertainty, she says: "This shows that the council is in complete uncertainty - and the president called her on her, but she continued -- and this is not going to be good with the pleasure of a respectable president, and I agree with the opposition this time. Quote in what? paritaprevir Vigdís' daughter of Hauksdóttir is over. What does it say? A senator and former president of the Legal Guild, Brassur Níelsson's son, about this point?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u160	Mr. President. I have promoted my wishes that we may be stopped in the discussion of the Developmental Cooperative Organization and that we do not need to add anything else. But I don't think that we're going to take up a discussion at the Presidency Committee and perhaps the chairman of a council interpretation by the head of the Council of the House today on the duties of the Ministers to the General Assembly. If it's going to take place, the understanding of the national administration and the Senate that a minister's duties are about to turn in the nose and measure for his bills, and then there's no requirement that they meet and answer for their matters, then there's a problem, I'll say. If it is so that even elected senators who are at the same time ministers did not have a duty, they have no information at the council, they are under no obligation to come here and answer their case if desired, then much new activity is being made at the Allied Parliament and of the previous times when ministers considered it a matter of taking place at night and day if desired to represent them. [[The president calls.]] And how sad it is to experience that trend in the hands of someone who does not know better, who is trying to create this image and interpret it here!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u161	V.E.G. President. I have suggested that the two horse trades, one of the own wishes of the Independence Party for Public Economics, which is preceded by the international financial exchange agreements as we know, and the candidate of the Ministry for Development Group, will be put aside, and we will be able to live in favor of the issue that is most important for a careful discussion of a festival, that is the budget. We received a very vivid discussion today regarding the privateisation of the banks and the plans of the Independence Party and the Independence Party Minister to start sales of the State in the Lands Bank, not just at home but abroad, in terms that are likely to become a sort of fire sale. At the same time as the highest. The minister and his party speak against government intervention and the arrival of banks to set $2.3 billion in the U.S. state bank. [[The president calls.]] Isn't this a thing that requires us to talk to him for more than half an hour, as was done today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u162	A respectable president. First, I'd like to step into a position where the council is. It is a little strange now to be saying the second day in a row about this matter, and both cases have been called before that a minister would be present and listen to the questions we have raised. I asked him a question in the 1st. He answered none of them. Not one. There were questions asked him yesterday, and he wasn't there. It hasn't returned to him. He's not here to answer them. No one has answered them, nor has the chairman of the committee. I don't think it's possible. Therefore, I would like to reiterate the wish that we should get the Minister to come here and be interrupted until then. Otherwise, we'll come up over and over again and ask the same questions until we get some answers. It's just that way. You are expected to have conversations with us about these matters. I also worry about what position the council is in when 11 days of Congress remain in the schedule. We'll go through 2nd. budget and 3. Um.....two. budgets and three. Um, talk about the bandworm in the 2nd and 3rd. and then the Ministers are also in town proclaiming the start of rolling in here the primes and finishing Christmas celebrations. I have to say, I haven't seen any of this kind of mismanagement during the council. What you have to wonder about is that of the 129 cases announced at this fall council, Ministers have submitted 20 to30 and three Ministers, social and housing ministers, Education Ministers and Business Ministers, zero cases have been submitted. As a matter of fact, I think the Minister of Education just dropped in two of the writers' layers. That's all. Ministers do not enter the council. You wonder, " Is there a pile of things going around? Is there an absolute lack of ideas? ' They do not know how to handle these matters. But they are also not to be proclaimed because they are taking steps in harmony with what is being proclaimed. I think these ministers have to do better because they simply haven't done their job. It is not acceptable in my opinion to go to meetings outside of this house and announce that more cases will be trampled through the council in record time. That's not possible. It doesn't work that way. But the imagination of these ministers seems to be so that with a greater of 38 persons, they can allow themselves to do anything. Is the members of the government going to pass this over? That this is a presentation to them and say: We need them before noon Friday, so let's go through it? So they're working here, and they're working on this, too. Case is run through. They come in bad shape from a committee. There is a brief interval between the two of us and until the situation is resolved. This will be even worse when the end of the council draws closer. It's embarrassing for this government, but mostly for the council, because we're supposed to put our foot down and protest. We are not to settle matters quickly. To this matter here. I have to tell you one more trip that I'm very sad about what has happened in this case because it's as if they agreed to pass the case through. There was not enough material discussion. We have not been told that after repeated requests to the council members, they will at least answer their questions about waiting for the next year's PC. What in this case causes people to rush so quickly that they cannot wait for the same amount of payoff from DiaC? This is a medical facility from outside, and they're going to turn it down. No, thank you, we know all of this. We don't need to look beyond our actions and actions. Who's turning down like that? We would have been happy to do all of this if we had been able to do that during the last term. It is a golden idea that professionals from other places are ready to review what we do and offer suggestions for improvement. But no, this secretary of state knows so much better, and it's best to truck this through and do it so that, in fact, men will put down the Development Agency and lay down a professional arrangement that has been involved in developing cooperation on the part of Iceland. Then people talk like they're just laying down some institution. It is put in the uncertainty of the management of funds that go to people who are in great need of them, the poorest people on this earth. The position of those groups that we are trying to provide support by means of development has been considered. She's not good. Then who are we? Because we think it's good to keep this money inside the Ministry, we're going to coax a developing research organization that's been doing good things, has a clear background, a transparency in the way it is handled, and we're going to repair it with the ministry's activities. Is that the policy of this government? Is it a rule policy? Opacity and unioning tasks, monitoring and implementation? When it comes to performing and monitoring, many comments have been made. Is it all right for those who want to treat public money well if they're groping it together in one department? There's no difference between moving a development research agency to the Ministry of State to the State of State and if it were thought of transporting the Vega program to the State Department. This is a professional organisation that will carry out a public project in a clear and transparent way. Then, after this is done properly, the Ministry is following through. It may also well be that the members of the administration body think Vega is a much more important and more important case. Is that what this is about? They do not want to show the respect that is due us to show toward evolution. It's incredibly important. The very few dollars in development help save lives, in countries where infrastructure is so weak that 25% of children are dead before they are five years old. That is the reality that we put money into. We have an obligation to do so. If we are proud of a real nation, we will share in real development aid. Let's not contribute to the Ministry where there is an obvious conclusion to the handling of funds. So again and again, I want to ask these inquiries. First, what's the hurry? What huge interests depend on making the situation go through in this way? Second, do you have a discussion about waiting until the next year and taking this up carefully and together over the DAC peer assessment, taking an external look at what we're doing? It could be good ideas and suggestions from then on, that could happen. Why don't we accept it? That's what I don't understand. I think it's so irresponsible. I think there's some kind of cross-examination here, unless it's about a horse deal last night. I think we should try to turn back a little bit and get back together on this important matter party. On the watch of the current minister of state and chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the debate on evolution issues is being reassigned in political agitation. Is that where we want this delicate and important group of subjects? I didn't think so. In 2008, we entered an interpolitian solidarity as this government, which this government, which I have listed as in the power of the forces, is about to blow up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u163	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for her introduction to this discussion, which, of course, centers on priorities and assessments of priorities. We are talking about an institution that has called attention to good work in Mozambique, Malawi, and Uganda, where people live with intense hunger and poor conditions. It's about helping to get water to drink. Thank you. A senator for the observed point, i.e. that Presidential reviews have repeatedly pointed out that it is not appropriate to perform and monitor, as is being done today, by accepting Iceland's European Development Agency as a special profession and moving under the Ministry with loss of transparency, atrophy in monitoring, etc. That's why I want to ask you why. The Christian's approach to the matter is correct, as it may be. It's clear that it's not in a good place, and there's been a very normal criticism here. It's about so much more than the men who work here. The Agency will take a lot of money, and government reexamination has never made a comment about the work of this institution in 20 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing it forward. This institution has been an exemplary organization in this regard. It has not exceeded the law of the law. Rather, it remains within the framework. She has had a clear assignment and has done much good to care for them, as it has been observed. One of the findings in this OECD subsystem when we were there was that it was especially noted that there had been a successful distribution of power within our operations, i.e. that the distribution of power was by means of the emissary offices that we share in in the countries that we still have. A senator noted that he has considerable flexibility to work with the local people in the best way to carry out assignments and to approach them there. That is exactly what good development aid is going on, the inner growth of communities that take into account the community structure. Not these old package solutions, where they brought factories and projects from outside and dragged them into society without having it fit into anything. It is this very thing that development organization has achieved so well, working with its own communities, putting money on projects that contribute to the internal growth and structure of the local people. They've been given special thanks for this. I agree with what. A senator tells me that I find it strange when the operation is not being criticized, and it is clear that it produces results that human interest is so concerned with putting the Agency down. The way I saw that the case should be put in is that men should, if they had any little desire to do it, to sit down with us and try to figure out what to do. [[The president calls.]] For example, it could be waiting for the DEC report and then having a transnational committee complete the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir' daughter for her answers. They were clear. It was made clear that it was best to take this matter along the way to agree to wait for the independent review and see where it leads us, then to a transverse committee, and to go over and find a solution to it. It is so strange when you begin to study this case that six times in 20 years, officials in the State Department have attacked the Agency and tried to get it into the Ministry of State, i.e. take a professional agency, lay down and put it under a political minister. It is also special to know that the Italians have looked to this institution to try to develop their own agency in the direction she works and has drawn attention. What I find even more specific is that Germany, which we know, is quite careful with all its progress and work, should also look to this institution and want to ask for advice on how to do this, so it has worked well. That is why it is totally incomprehensible to be taken to this expedition. I'd like to direct that inquiry to why. þm. Katrín Juliusdóttir, who believes that professional knowledge is in danger of this change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u166	A respectable president. I think if you take it out of a professional and clear form, which is a developing research agency, you're very uncertain ahead. Once the work has gone into the ministry, things are completely different. They're putting an institution down. In other words, now this department will be in the Ministry, where our attendance and monitoring are completely different and much more blurred. That's what you're afraid of. What will happen to professional knowledge? I believe that the professionals will always fight to do things as well as the setting allows them to do it. But I think it's better for them to have a clearer perspective like a developing research agency than to be in some local grouse at the Ministry. The question of whether man and woman will be able to make the best use of it remains to remain well - informed. That's what I'm worried about. Then I'd like to mention that what interests me about this case is not only this unsoundness of heart, planning to gather together and implement and all that, but also that man is driving the evolutionary affairs into a collision course. I've never experienced that before. I have never experienced that people want to make them a conflict at the council, when it concerns the funds we send to people who need them and are the lives of people in the world. It's the responsibility of the government and the chairman of the State Department of State, who gets involved in driving the case this way through, without proper authority, without answering the questions of the committee, just because -- what? [[The president calls.]] People were promised that? We need to keep a professional eye on matters and on what is at stake when we make such decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u167	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a clear review of the situation. I take my whole mind to what it said. One thing I keep in mind when reading the paper with the bill is that there is only one authority that is used to support the subject. It's said, by permission of the President: ▪ The report's standard of coordination for all government users is that development cooperation should be in one place. Only in this way can the best results be optimised by the most efficient. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator agrees with this and whether it is better to have any exchange, whether or not, as mentioned earlier in the report, two - sided and international development teamwork, that is somehow divided there between the European Development Agency and the Ministry. Clearly, they need to be put together somehow, not that they need some important report to explain that having things in one place is better than many. I'd like to ask you what. A senator agrees with this and whether he can tell me where this place should be, whether it has been suggested where it should be, within the Ministry or outside. That's what I'd like to ask you. A senator about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u168	A respectable president. Now I don't know the story very well, but I think they've been looking at it before. For example, it has been observed in the case of members of Congress that this was examined during the reign of Davíð the son of Oddsson, and his conclusion after such an assessment was put together into the development community, instead of the way to go now, i.e. ... takingthe developing issues and developing cooperations all the way into the Ministry. I would have thought that was a much better way. Every assignment can be better handled, and this is certainly the case too. But I think better, if you've done the assessment on account of FAC, which was done a few years ago, which shows that people are doing well and that the funds we put in development teamwork through the Development Network are doing well, putting more projects there and building them up, and doing it professionally. The benefits are that you have a clear, clear, clear picture of what is being done, as well as that we are not doing in the Icelandic government taking up projects in the Ministry. Is there another minister? I don't think so. I don't think anyone else would think that it's normal to do that, whether it's a travel agency or the Roadmaker or whatever it is. These are all projects requiring some kind of execution and they are not going to the Ministry. In this respect, I have to say, a respectable president, that I think there would have been a better way of doing something, and I think there's always something better to do than it would be to transfer a two - sided project from the Ministry into the Development Institute. So why don't we wait for the peer-refugeed DiaC and then make a decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u169	President. Thank you. A senator for an informative answer. Now I understand that the report I quoted earlier by Þórir Guðmundsson from July 2014, of Iceland's development cooperation, organization, efficiency and success did not give any particular indication whether the work under the Agency should be within the Ministry or in a special agency, but it was a little open. After that, there has been a difference of opinion as to whether the operation is better under a ministry or a special agency. When I read the report, it's very one-sided. What goes into the eye after learning history is what these are one - sided references, one - sided discussion of the subject. There is no comment on what was previously won regarding the assessment of such a situation. Now I know, like, what? A senator mentioned, a former U.S. Marshal. Davíð's minister, the son of Oddsson, had an assessment of his time, and he was his assistant to Illugi Gunnarsson. That's when the world's highest power came. Education minister to a conclusion far different from the highest present. Secretary of State, that it would be better to have it all in a special facility. Why not try to get the highest. Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson at the Hall of Congress? Perhaps he can better explain this matter to us. I'm asking why. A senator sincerely: Is it not time for a good discussion of this, to get the Independence Party to stop silent when it comes to this? It is certain that within the Independence Party, people with clear opinions on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u170	A respectable president. It has been noted that members of the Independence Party do not have much to do with this discussion. It makes you wonder, " Can it really be that man has done something - I'm so bad at conspirators - some buy? ' This is the only case that progress will be made in this fall council, so it's good to get it through so they can have something. It may well be, that's why this is the case. It is not the Ministers of the Future Party to present a matter in the long bears we have to work with, except for the protection of nature at hand. Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u171	The good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u172	- Yes, the good thing, here comes from the side room of the chairman of the House of Congress. He might reason that this discussion would be interrupted, and the matter would be sent to the fore. Environment Committee. It may well be agreed there; it was not authorized by a foreign - language committee. A respectable president. I think you're right. A senator says that we should try to get the viewpoint of those who are now on deck or at the highest. A minister of education, reveals his point of view as to why this transformation took place on views from the time he reached a different conclusion. That would be interesting to hear. He seems to know everything about it as well. What I see is that we have an organization that is responsible for carrying out specific things for us when it comes to developing cooperation. She has been praised, thought to have done well. Then we have a Ministry that is now going to swallow up these projects and go out of the Ministry to run developments. [[The president calls.]] To me, it's clear. If they want transparency, clarity, traceability, they'll keep the Agency, if they want chaos and even try to put an operation out, they'll take it into the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u173	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking everybody. Congress members who have been involved in the matter, and this is something of great importance. And not only that, this is of great importance to more people than the Icelanders, who are developing cooperation and developing cooperation, which contributes to world peace. Thus the Icelanders are trying to participate in some kind of international community work that is very important, since Iceland was a very underdeveloped country. We have much to say about men and things. In 2008, it is reported that total laws were set up for public development in the United States, where the arrangement was significantly changed. At that time, and before that time too, the development of two - hand work was carried out. After that, there's been a lot of pressure, there's always been a lot of pressure, and I don't quite understand why it came about. But it seems he's coming from the Ministry, he's not coming from Iceland's Development Institute of Development, that they really want to go into the Ministry, where it would be rather contrary to common sense, I'd think, if they wanted to put down their own agency. So there is somewhere in the Ministry that the need for development of a research agency is involved. I don't feel that in the report and the committee's opinion, it is clear enough why that need arises. However, the review has been made, and what I find very boring is the way the paper on the bill. Is that what this is? There are much more detailed comments that can be worked out. There could have been further consultations to find out whether or not to bring the Agency to the Ministry. A bill report says, with permission from the President: ▪ The report's standard of coordination for all government users is that development cooperation should be in one place. Only in this way can the best results be optimised by the most efficient of themes. But where is it said, in which place? Where does that come from? Who decided that this was better off outside the Ministry? Or inside the Ministry? It doesn't seem to come out here. Þórir Guðmundsson, the man who wrote a report on Iceland's Developmental Team says nothing of this having any further place in the Ministry. The report says that it is better to have it at home, much of which is a very reasonable conclusion, but it is not good to have it in many places. However, this one spot does not necessarily have to be within the Ministry. In addition, the European Development Agency has been shown to have done well. The results of this report were positive, says the report, and Iceland's development team was based on solid and professional foundations. Also says: The report contained some suggestions on better practice, either in policy areas, initiatives, or arrangements. That's a very general word. This is not a judgment against the present system of things. Rather, it is more general. It's a matter of general interest, and it's not being decided that bringing this into the Ministry, the arrangement will suddenly be better, that policy would be better by being in the Ministry. I don't think that's clear enough. Third, the report says that it would need to reevaluate whether Iceland's development team and development network were still suitable. However, there is no evidence here that this is in the ministry that is better off than without it. It's just said that we need to reexamine how Iceland's Development Research Institute works. There's nothing wrong with that. However, the conclusion seems to be that the operation should enter the Ministry, although there is no evidence to explain the background, it does not indicate whether it belongs in the Ministry or not. I'm very worried about moving the operation to the Ministry. It says, by permission of the President: This change in work from DSSI to the Ministry will depend on the inevitable change in the daily activities of all who work in development cooperation at the Ministry. This is very serious. There is a change in how the European Development Agency operates -- ◯... the inevitable change in the daily activities of all who work in development teamwork at the Ministry. This is a big change. And what will then be the future of development? I'm just asking about it because, while it says that there's not any change in policy, goals, or engineering in Iceland's development partnerships, it's still gonna change somehow. It's a little contradictory, isn't it? I don't get it. I think it's really bad where people are talking about it. Today, a lot of talk is about young people's shelters. People are running from all over the country because they don't get a job that's right. Here we have something to work on anywhere in the country. It could be working on the West or Eastern Europe, or who knows where, on the Lake glacier, that's why it's a good 3G call. On the other hand, it is somehow taking out and not making the work as exciting. It's gonna be a ministry job. Their field of work will change so that those who have been specialized in developing cooperation have been specialized in carrying out this specific work, since it is a professional agency, and all of a sudden it becomes government officials with the political bitch who is behind it. I feel that in all respects the matter is very strange, especially because it has been tried to get this through for a considerable long time, or at the time that I was beginning to learn English in the reign of King Davíð Oddsson, and it's only been a very long time since if I can point to it. Somehow it's always coming back, and I don't understand why. It also does not make sense why it is. The first thing I can think of is, it's natural that power compression is involved. This is the old U.S. government community in some way being sent back to what was being distributed all over. One of the things we've been trying to do as a community, as we mature as a political society and as an economic society, we're trying to delegate the responsibility, like the driving force. paritaprevir In her first speech, Katrín Júlíusdóttir said that when we have the authority in our community, when organizations have clear and limited tasks, it is easier to monitor them. The same is true of the European Development Agency. This is a matter of a balance of power between the proactive institutions, the government, and the legislators. I don't see what it's like to secure transparency by moving the operation to the Ministry. I don't see how it's supposed to increase the production of the Agency. It is important that certain tasks await her, and it is important that she gain peace from the day's political pursuits in order to solve them. By importing the operation into the Ministry and offering, as I have heard, the staff of your staff come to the Ministry and work there in some developing community, the entire environment is naturally being changed. And it's a question of whether we want to. Do we remember to accept this if we were to go under the Ministry of Education, where politics in our daily affairs would determine whether the blue wheel or the red bike or the green bike would be considered? Because all of a sudden, when we're making children's books for a sixth grade or a 6-year-old class or when we put some color on the bike, it's become political, all of a sudden, because the Ministry is a class of politicals, and it's gonna be different, and it's always gonna be different. We choose every four years, and ministers are in this room on behalf of certain groups in the hands of the Generals, so the Ministry is inevitable and inevitably will always be a group of catechisms. Developmental cooperation is also a political issue. So this is a question of whether we want this category of political issues or whether we want it to be professional and political. It's international political and office political, and I don't know anything about it. Changes in arrangements will bring the Development Agency closer to being a category of predominantly political issues and can be seen here. It's a question of whether we want her to become a group of political issues. This is where I object, simply because I don't feel that developing teamwork should be classified as catechism. This should be a parapolitic language and should be something with harmony and harmony. This isn't supposed to be something that's a fight between the blue and red team, Manchester United or Liverpool, it's unnecessary. This is a matter of peace and a measure of peace and a good work has been done in Iceland's Development Research Institute recently. The report shows that Iceland's development team is based on a solid and professional basis. I don't understand how the Ministry actually came to that conclusion, and when I read it, I simply sacrifice my hands. Now, it's just a general complaint of me what kind of articles are like in general. It's a lot of text, but, in the same way, there's threes. The same thing is being repeated over and over with different expressions as one source is available to substantiate the Agency. It is not called good historical work, nor is it good work over a person's head. There are three sources of independent evidence that show the same conclusions or at least that these findings have been proposed decades ago, and that there is a difference of opinion, since that is the fact. We wouldn't be here if it were some matter that wasn't controversial. This question is controversial and debated because it is a matter of authority distribution instead of of of power compression. This is the question of whether we want an old Iceland in which the chiefs ruled everything, where the priest and the princes, and all who had titles, would have only a small piece of bread for their work, or if we gave up a little power. I think it's very important that we distribute power. By distributing power, we don't create large power blocks, we're breaking them down, and everyone in the community has some power, has something to contribute, has a face out to show. That's what I think is the most important thing when we talk about the development community of Iceland, that we have a face out of it that has this beautiful title, not because people need to be in some title fight, but simply this question about the distribution of power and to explain the boundaries of power, it's a matter of ensuring transparency and a question of authority distribution. V.E.G. The minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson's son, took this assessment during the reign of Davíð the son of Oddsson, and he reached a very different conclusion than Þórir Guðmundsson. I'd love to get him here in the room to discuss this bill. No doubt he has much to offer, a troubled person. I find it odd to hear how the Independence Party shuts up a thin sound in a chamber. He seems to have accepted that this is the existence and that is the future. What I miss most about not having the highest. Secretary of state in the hall. It hurts me simply because we have very interesting material discussions about authority and authority in the community. I was very interested in what happened here when we discussed the President's conference board that this government has agreed on. The government has everything to do with it. The government's in Iceland, not the council. The only power we have, which is, in fact, kind of crying in itself, is talking. It's such extreme freedom of speech that we have here to talk to, but it doesn't matter, they don't have to listen that's, like, right. However, it would be nice and so much fun to have a physical argument about whether the Agency belongs to the Ministry on the basis of power or distribution, and what is more important in our community, where we can have better supervision, more transparency, and clearer authority boundaries. That'd be great. It'd be great if it was the highest. Secretary of State, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson would see fit to attend the Hall of Congress. Now, we've often asked him to be here, but he's not here, which I just find very difficult, because it's fundamental. Whether people like it or not, it is fundamental to discuss the matter and discuss these boundaries. The European Development Agency for Iceland is doing a good job, and it is important that we acknowledge that she has been doing a good job. As mentioned in the debates, why not? Congress officials have not been exceeding the budget for which it is intended. There's nothing about a communication problem between the institutions. It's just that it's better to keep it in one place. But it's never stated here that this is the ministry. There's no way that the only place where you can make sure this goes through properly and the development teamwork for Iceland's hand is going to be brolla at the Ministry. On the contrary, I have actually shown that by providing the European Development Agency with a designated power area where people can work hard and professionally, we have created good reputations. We've created something that can be seen. It's a model agency, and I'm very sorry to see that they're being laid down and transferred to the Ministry. I'm very sorry that workers who have experience in developing cooperation are entering the department's department of markets instead of focusing on their own matters when it comes to developing cooperation. However, the fact is that Iceland, despite its constitution, is a matter of Congress, it really is the sovereignty of the government that controls the state. It's a matter of state meetings, whether or not they go through. There's very little that a private senator in my part can do. There's nothing certain. Although the Independence Party has held a thin sound, and you can hear what they really think, it's embarrassing. This is a completely, completely embarrassing case for the Independence Party. I'd be happy if they came and admitted it and showed that they were bigger and more men than that. This may sound unusual, but I miss not hearing from the Independence Party, where they may have much to offer, and especially the highest. A minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, who came to a conclusion quite different from that of the present world's highest level. Secretary of state. This case is a matter of ensuring power distribution, a matter of ensuring transparency, a question of securing power boundaries and a matter of entering the new Iceland and not to the old princehood.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u174	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Clearly, it is. A senator has tried to read the matter and to examine it in order to understand the argument or illogical that is presented in the bill we discuss here. I have to agree with what. A senator I don't understand, nor do I understand how to reach the conclusion of using a developing research agency proposed in the bill. You see, I couldn't help but agree. A member of the Parliament that development cooperation should not be a class of catechism. To me, it is a matter of how we as a rich nation can assist poor countries on their terms, thus helping them to cope with problems and improve the lot of the people who live there. Developing cooperation is primarily a matter of turning. I agree with what. A senator that is not supposed to be a political team, and I would like to ask the senator if it is not afraid that it is just a means of paying the way, rather than moving the operation into a special agency that makes it much easier to keep the surveillance under way. Is this not just being political?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u175	A respectable president. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. Senator. I can't help but answer it with yes, I think it's being made a class of political. On the other hand, I can't see, and there may be something as bad. A senator can help me understand why this needs to be a class of stereotypes. Now I am naturally new to the council, even though I have followed politics for many years in spite of my early years and do not understand why this case must be a class of drugs. I don't understand where that will come from to bring this tribe into the Ministry. Then this class is clearly being made predominantly, and the Minister's perspective on the case is increasing, or what? Would the Minister have more and more perspective on the tribe of the case if these operations were inside the Ministry? I don't fully understand the point of moving this into the Ministry. Is this about some foreign journeys that people can make? Is that what's behind it? Is it possible to travel abroad? Is it possible to attend some interesting conferences or to meet interesting people? I don't see the point of bringing this into the Ministry from being an independent institution. I'm just kidding about why it is. But this group is clearly being made much more predominantly by moving the operation into the Ministry. I don't understand why, and I don't think it's totally pointless, because it's not going to be an option as it has been, and it's going to be in the paper.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u176	Madam President. Yes, why is the matter being made political, or why do we suspect that it is political? I think it's about a vision of developing cooperation, as I've traced it here in speech and answers today. I think it's on the other hand that the ambitions of the present government when it comes to developing cohesion are not particularly great and then we want to mix up evolutionary cooperation and trade, i.e. that the will is that Iceland can do business with how it's spent. And that's what I think like. In his speech, a senator made a point that was just an example of an old Iceland. That's the way it used to be. I feel that this legacy is something that I really want to do... so that we don't go back into it and think it's really important to fight it. There's something else I'd like to ask you. A senator's concern is because I know she's interested in Iceland's work practices. I think the debate, the material, in this case is also a crying example of old Iceland. In fact, it's just the government side that talks, but what? In spite of extreme opposition to the matter, the majority of the U.S. Parliament intends to knock the matter off with a vote at the end of the discussion. Isn't this an example of old Iceland's work strategy, which is just such a desperate call for an outside society that we don't practice at the Council? [[The president calls.]] Should we not, therefore, do all we can to bring the matter into terms of reconciliation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u177	Madam President. This is a natural genetic problem. Whatever it is. paritaprevir A Steinunn named Árnadóttir Adnadóttir introduced a combination of evolutionary cooperation and trade as being below all caves. I don't understand how people think of things like that, and if they are, then, first of all, it's a very serious accusation. But considering the old Iceland I know, it wouldn't surprise me. This case was first adopted at 144th when I came in as a deputy and then I didn't know much about the case, but there's something that's been with me a little bit in my time here at the council, even though my council is now rather short so far, but I think it's an example of old Iceland. This sums up an example of the abuse of power that has been practiced in the power of the majorityitarian court here at the council. As I mentioned earlier in the President's conference board, the procedure is extremely strong in Iceland which means you can't have a conversation, you can't have some kind of phrase change. People are each in their own corner, and they don't seem to be able to move on. While we're in the gunfighting campaign that's about to be practiced here, maybe we'll need some development cooperation when it comes to how we're going to work here at the council. There are some sources of information here that are completely defective and ambitions that are put into the production of reports and that are below all caves. I think it's totally an example of the old Iceland and Iceland that had a new constitution and needs to be fixed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u178	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásta if only you would Helgadóttir Guðrún for your fine speech! I thought she handled the very essence of this matter. At the end of the answer, the question was, A senator said that it would be below all caves if one were to share in some form of foreign trade and development cooperation. I think that when people come up with this matter, they don't have the purpose in mind, but the steps are still frightening. If men had tried to look at the experiences of the nations of the world in a similar way, they might have stayed here. Not long ago, the development community was under attack in the Netherlands. There they were following a project that was under a special agency in the Ministry. In a few years, strong criticism of that arrangement has developed in the Netherlands because it offers a measure of temptation, and politicians have fallen to him and are criticized for mixing too much of the Dutch business and developing cooperation. Hv. Similarly, a senator said that developing cooperation is absolutely necessary to create a parapolitic reconciliation. That's always the way it was. Over the years, there have been good choices in creating a reconciliation that has cut every group of stereochrome lines. It was offered here, but the highest. In effect, a minister of state has taken initiative to stone the long - term agreement that has ruled over these matters by putting forth this controversial matter, which no one supports. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because she is one of the senators who is at a council that has a damaged career here: How does she feel about entering the National Parliament and seeing such tactics? I say that because I've been here 25 years, and I've never seen worse and less rational matters than what we're discussing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u179	A respectable president. So I'll answer a question. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's whiskers about what it's like to enter the council and that it's the case and this sort of business: to be honest, it's hardly surprising to me. This is exactly what I expected. I have to say that if I had been more careful with my work, I might have been more surprised, but this is exactly the view people generally have of Icelandic politics. There is one - sided explanation of why things are supposed to be the others or these, and that is exactly what we have been trying to fix by taking a discussion on matters and trying to look at other aspects of them. Hv. A senator refers to the report by means of the bill. It never speaks of how this is done elsewhere. There's only one report, and I've got a little bit of a chest going on. I'm a historian. I'd like to have three sources of everything before I'd say anything or a source like that. It never speaks of how this is done elsewhere. It surprises me a little when it comes to it. One member of the U.S. Senate says that the experience of international development agencies into the Ministry was exactly the one mentioned above, that it is offering a problem in which business interests are too rich. And what will happen then? Will we stop building wells in Uganda or wherever it takes us to sell them fish and that is war? It's not working. It's below every block to offer these opportunities. I just don't understand, and I'm really surprised. On the other hand, I'm not surprised by my work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u180	Madam President. I'm not surprised that this new senator is a mess about his work. I'm amazed at them too. But I've been sitting here with those who've been the longest in the field. I just haven't seen a Senate case like this before. I never remember putting up a case that is not at peace, which is not supported in the management team, and which is unconvinced. I never remember putting up a case that would be written down in order to increase the potential for economic and economic advantages in the management of an institution, but the financial office of the Ministry clearly states that there is no chance that there will be some kind of savings. So there are neither professional nor financial reasons for this union. I think that's what. A senator put his finger on his pulse when she said that it was surprising to read the report on the basis of the many claims for which there is no evidence. She said that certain statements were trident, and that is absolutely correct. It goes back like a ghost through the entire report that OECD development team has identified the need to change the development programme in Iceland. The 37 pages that appear to be part of the development committee are nowhere to take place. This is particularly pointed to in the report by the European Union of Iceland, which points to this as a mismatch. How important it is that reasoning support is based either on conscious errors or on certain misunderstandings! What's much worse is that when you read this, you see that there's some kind of ambiguity everywhere that's being transpired about the good work that this institution's done by suggesting that it's about some kind of ambiguity and that it's out of shape with Iceland's foreign policy. [[The president calls.]] There are no examples of this and any recorded history test at any university.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u181	Madam President. Yes, what I thought when I was reading this report was that it would hardly have been considered a good work in Iceland's University of History. Most people may just benefit from taking a course of historical work. There is no need to mention the same thing three times, as is done here and of that in a single paragraph below all caves. It surprises me to see how - or it doesn't come in itself, but somehow it's so scary to see in person the conduct of the government, especially when I've been reading about how the bank crash and the causes of the bank crash in Iceland. That is exactly what the European Commission was doing at this time. We're back there. We're back in Old Iceland, the old Iceland I protested out of 2008 and 2009, forgive everyone who was in here, so I'm surprised to find out why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who's been in Congress for as long as I've lived, has also not seen such ill - loved essays and as poor support of argument with bill to law. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u182	Madam President. So earlier today, I directed to the president, who was then on his seat to inform us of what might be involved in this discussion, as I am afraid to say, nonsense. It's Thursday and Congress, finishing their jobs. According to one custom, it has often been taken into account that the weekend is ahead and that the meeting is not very long into the evening, including Because of local council members and others who may have obligations and have to travel either tonight or early in the morning. I feel that it is very pointless and really unreasonable to continue this discussion longer in the light of a strong desire to be the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please report to the discussion. He's at a gathering with his party that they say they don't have an alibi from the General. I don't think it's unreasonable to have some consideration for the rest of us who have been fulfilling our responsibilities and being there. I'm probably another man on the rosary, and I don't think it's fair that I have to use my second speech before I get to the top. The minister of foreign affairs comes to the discussion so that I can ask him in that talk, a ten - minute talk. [[The president calls.]] If I have to keep it to him, my rights to have a word with the Minister will finally be limited. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u183	Madam President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. It is prerogative for us to be here in a room almost empty to discuss this matter at the end of seven hours. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson did well earlier today. A minister would have had the right to come here to a meeting between the two meetings that he is enrolled in at the Agency if he had been somewhat interested in participating in the discussion, having a place to speak with us, and answering the questions of the members of Congress. V.E.G. A minister prefers to set aside his time in a completely different way. So I want to agree that I feel completely prejudicial. The members of the council are allowed to spend our speech lesson talking to the void where the minister is not here. [[The president calls.]] So, of course, a meeting should be delayed immediately and should have been done a while ago today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u184	V.E.G. President. It's just this thing that's had a lot of things going on all day, an amazing presence of the highest. Minister of this matter. As I have said, it may in fact be understood that he doesn't want to be here and listen to this objection or that he will have to answer for this all-bad case, one of the worst things I think came to the council. Answers to the highest. Ministers for the staff of the European Development Agency say anything that needs to be said. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has often been a subject of comment on how this was answered on the committee. I agree with that too. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke of earlier. He is next to the speaker's will, and he has ten minutes and wants to ask the minister, but the minister is not responding. Hv. A senator will then have to spend ten minutes talking about this bloody matter, the minister will not answer, and then it will be five minutes. [[The president calls.]] It is beneath the council, most honourable president, that the minister of foreign affairs should ignore the council as he does. [[The president calls.]] I agree this time, although I rarely do so, with a respectable president, that I think it is at the end of this day and the best thing that would be done now would be to decommission a meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u185	Madam President. It is perfectly normal for the government council members to want to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister of state before this discussion ends. The inability to make this choice underscores what we've been saying, at least I'm here for political abuse of power. What's going on here is that it's been done, so I'll put it out of my head. paritaprevir Ordinary son of Jónasson, a political monasteries between the Independence Party and the forward party. V.E.G. A minister of state who has no support for the case has apparently agreed that it will get through. And we want to know from him what it is that he needs to give in return. The other is absolutely clear to the fact that it is a developing cohesive agency, completely unsatisfying, a victim of this shitpot. They are to be laid down, although they have been given an excellent life in every country or country. [[The president calls.]] That's fair, to say the least, to the highest. Let the minister leave his journeys in the midst of the country, and come here to do his work, and not to speak with the Council, and to stand before him. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u186	A respectable president. When I first came in to discuss this matter, I asked, "Why are we here? It was in the President's conference board, if not on Thursday, because it was the highest. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson refused to show up in a council hall. I'm sorry to see what happens to Icelandic Congress when ministers don't even see themselves able to reason with the council. There is a weak person who is afraid to show up at a point where the discussion takes place. That's all there is to it. It's getting late. I'm hungry. I want to eat. I suggest that a meeting will be terminated because I don't think it's going to have anything to do with the discussion, especially not as the situation is now that we've asked the highest level of prayer. Secretary of state repeatedly not being able to get an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u187	President. It is now time for seven of this discussion to end today, considering how the speaker's book looks, it appears that this discussion will continue next week. We've repeatedly requested the Supreme Being. Minister for the discussion. From the platform, I have claimed that this discussion will be as good as it would be if we could have a word with a minister. It would be fine, Mr. President, to imagine how the next month and loss of Congress will come to see if it's the highest level. A minister is scheduled for a meeting that he has according to the Convention on Tuesday or Wednesday or Thursday next week, as we need to adjust our discussion with the highest plans. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u188	V.E.G. President. It's getting kind of boring. I would keep all of us here if our time was better spent discussing other issues on the program, such as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People, the next issue on the agenda. For my part, the main thing I'm here is to keep this case quiet. In other words, I am in a filibuster called, and I am not ashamed of it. Why do I want to keep it quiet? So I'd like to put it on hold until we get to the top. The minister of foreign affairs comes to the discussion so that it can become perplexing and rewarding. It is our efforts to do so. We could just stay here after night and after next week discussing this matter, but we're going to get it done. We do not accept any other conclusion in order to get a good discussion of the matter. I predict that if it happened that the minister would attend this discussion, she would be much shorter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u189	Madam President. According to reliable sources, the highest was the case. Similarly, the minister of state at a meeting at Ásafjörður last night, and it is considered reliable evidence that he is going to attend a meeting with his party members at the Sea of the Year. [[The point is, not necessarily with party companies.]] - I'm sure there'll be no one else. [[Up front.]] The first flight from Isafjordur, comes to town about ten, 10:30 a.m., and although the minister is planning to meet at the Sea of the Year, he says. Eight tonight, he would have enough time to leave about 4:30, five, for that. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs could have been here at the council, on a request from about eleven o'clock this morning to four, 4:30 p.m. He chose not to. He despises the council. He knows he'll come here and stand for his case. He does not want to, nor does he try to help his own case. He's ignoring the council. Then the council has no choice but to teach the minister manners, stop discussions on the subject, and not to begin until the highest level. Secretary of state has arrived in his chair. I propose that the President begin to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u190	A respectable president. We've got a case in 2nd. On the development of a development team, a second event, was also at the last legislation, then passed through 1st. to the Foreign Affairs Committee, to be taken care of, also, with a greater proportion of votes from the Foreign Affairs Committee. Here, representatives from the Foreign Affairs Committee have been following the case in the Hall of Congress, they have observed the discussions. A respectable president. It's so that the Ministers come here to 1. Um... Then the council has its case. It has been said that there is no greater support for the matter, that there is no more to it. When this matter comes to a vote, it becomes clear whether more is involved. I think it's a fun talk presented here, and I've watched them diligently here today. I just want to say, as long as so many people have something to say about it, they won't be standing up at a council meeting until the end of the week. 8, 9, 10, 11, even to 12. I just want to encourage the highest. A president to continue this meeting so that we can get more good talks on the matter from the government side.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u191	Madam President. I'm really into what I'm looking for. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason had a good time. If that's the case, my speeches make him lighter and lighter, then I'm prepared to hold many and long speeches. The other thing is, if I look at the interests of the Alleglis and the Republic of Iceland, I see that there are a lot of cases here waiting to be paid off, despite the harsh criticisms that have been reported on the government, including the government. ... thepresident of the budget board. I believe our time would be much better spent discussing it. But the other is that the government has a right attitude. She wants answers. She hasn't had them yet. I agree with what. paritaprevir My son, Jónasson. We're not going to be getting any closer until we get to the highest level. The minister of the foreign minister is bold, not just stirring up and coming here to a meeting to answer questions and informs us of the slag-dret that he has done to the Independence Party and the whiskers. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson has made this conversation very thorough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u192	V.E.G. President. Because why? A member of Parliament and the chairman of the Assembly of the Middle Eastern Party Ásmund Daveon speaks of members of the Foreign Affairs Committee sitting and listening to the discussion, it's just not true at all. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] No. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir is just one of the members of the committee, but there are six from the top of the board and five have not been seen here today, except for the rest of the year. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who has been here from time to time today. Except for the highest. Minister of State before the council by not showing up and representing this case, I would also like to make a comment, a more dignified president, in the treatment of the Foreign Affairs Committee. On October 14, the issue was closed. The following day, the matter was briefly discussed at a meeting and torn out of the committee on October 16, two days after the announcement ended. These are no trades, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] The council is also being preassigned. It's not for our advantage. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It's a dead end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u193	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, chairman of the House of Booths, traced the history of the matter to its origin and said that we should wait for a vote on this matter, then there would be a real human will. Do you think so? That's what I doubt. It turns out that the horses' purchases that the Specialist Party and the Independence Party have done among themselves, on the one hand, to provide the leading of the Independence Party, the bill of public finance that is brier in an eye - I do not support it, I do not support - many candidates, I know, and, on the other hand, the bill of a developing working agency, which many independents are thorny in the eye, they do not support, some opposers. [[Up front.]] But I fear that the vote will not reveal the actual will of the senators. [[The president calls.]] And we are calling for him to reveal a discussion about the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u194	A respectable president. I think it's a long time now, as I've been saying in the past few days that this matter is being decided. I think no matter how many times it is said in a unfair and false way that the matter has been torn out of the State Department of State, that's not true. The matter has been discussed for 30 hours, a case that remains unchanged since the last assembly, it has been discussed for a total of 30 hours in this hall. It was discussed in 12 meetings of the State Department, and both times when the matter has been discussed here at each Parliament, the case has been resolved by the majority of the committee. So all talk about the fact that there was more to it and that the committee was torn out of the picture. It is to be accepted like a dog. paritaprevir Yet, the grandfather of Jónasson's son has the courage to admit that here is just an old - fashioned saying and nothing else. They are trying to keep it quiet and then to promote some conspirators about horse purchases and that for this matter there is no more. If the government's position is convinced that there is no greater part involved, then there must be a vote for the matter, then if there is no more to it, it is something that people must want to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's give it a shot. But all this talk, a respectable president, that has been repeatedly climbed here to the point that the matter has been torn out of the committee is not true. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u195	We're talking about conviction about the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u196	President. Once again, I come here to draw attention to each other. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller has my presence here. I just didn't know I was so hard to see, but I'm an assistant to the Foreign Affairs Committee and one of the committee members that was introduced several days ago. I just wanted to feel better that there's no escape on the committee or on this matter. On the other hand, I understand that old horse merchants who were conducting government talks every day for the entire last term think they smell something, but it doesn't exist from this case. This matter is good, and it is urgent that we take care of it quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u197	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate what I said earlier, of course, we'll walk out here in this hall that men vote according to their convictions, better would it be, as if they resolved on the committees. People talk about a lot of horse purchases. It's just not so with this government that there's a horse trade in cases as described here during the last term. Of course, when people come up here and describe horse purchases, it must be based on experience during the last term. It was written an entire bestseller for Christmas, I think, two or three years ago. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. The point is, though, that a tiny gnat has made a huge camel of a tiny gnat. And the fact is, if the government's situation did not answer itself, it would be possible to pass this matter to a vote. It's perfectly normal, like a beard. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir came in, began to complete this discussion as soon as possible, and address the case in favor so that, according to his own convictions, the vote can be elected on this matter. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I just want to say it again, because they have to talk a lot and that there are a lot of things ahead of them, I want to encourage again and again that this meeting will be held and even put on a meeting tomorrow and on Saturday to discuss this good thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u198	Madam President. I have to protest to my point that this is a gnat making a camel of gnat in this case, because to me this is a very big and important case, i.e. Important in a bad sense, since developing cooperation arrangements are of utmost importance in the global politics we see today. It is of utmost importance how one of the richest nations in the world employs money in developing worlds to the poorest countries and if it seems to be outlining professional demands on our part and can begin to give some other interest than those who serve the best of the poor, then it's a huge deal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u199	Madam President. As probably has not been overlooked by anyone who has followed these discussions on this subject today, whether in a church or out of town, I am in a lot of excitement, and I have strong opinions about how rich countries, and thus Iceland as one of the richest nations of the world, will be conducting my developing cooperation. I think that by the bill we're discussing putting down the Development Network and moving the whole operation into the Ministry, we're going in the wrong direction, and that's why I just didn't have time to work in my speech earlier today to go through all the points that burn on me and I'd like to come into this discussion. So in this second discourse, I plan to pick up the thread that had been abandoned earlier today. I was there in my talk, and I found some trouble. The National Committee has repeatedly expressed fears that the expertise and expertise in developing cohesion, the skills established in the specialized institution, the development center, will be lost by putting the Agency down and importing all the work into the Ministry. It has been noted that the work of the Development Agency calls for workers to have specialisation, but the Ministry is working in a very different way, since the work there is more to it that the workers have general and broader knowledge of language groups. In addition, foreign workers are transport duties, which means they move from office to office, they move to trade, they move between services, they move between services, and therefore they do not have the same opportunities as the personnel of a professional agency to gather up experience and knowledge of how to work best in developing cooperation. So there is the danger that the knowledge that has been built up in a developing research agency that I consider very precious will be lost at the conversion proposed by the bill. In fact, it can be read from a number of comments given as well as the peer-specture of the DMA that all testify to the work of the Development Organization in a very positive way and that it is exemplary in the way it works, although the financial resources of the Agency may be further developed. It has also been noted that in the past 20 years, six cases of government officials have been called upon to take the lead in putting down a development organization and allowing the State Department to take over the matter entirely. I'm sorry about the conversation and the mood here, but now it's a good idea. I think it's terrible, and that's why I'm here in my second speech and I don't rule out that there'll be more already. One day a minister will arrive as soon as possible during the discussion. Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir, who is one of our leading evolution specialists, wrote a review on the social science field of Iceland. She, one of our chief specialists, criticizes the bill and the way it is suggested, in fact, that it should be done in the opposite direction, i.e. that a developing co-operation agency will be promoted instead of being decomposed. It's kind of impressive to me to stand here on a talk chair and point out that this is the same conclusion as did former senator and minister, Oddsson the son of Oddd, but I may have rarely been able to agree with him. But for a long time, I agree, and this is probably the same thing that Davíð Oddsson suggested in his day, or was his conclusion, that the Agency should not be put down to development but expand the Agency's workspace and that it should continue to care for both two - sided and multi - sided development cooperation in the office of a minister. I think that's a good way to go. But given where we are today, and we know that there's no such long time coming, we should stop and wait until that review. What I think we should do in the affairs of developing cooperation is focus on finding ways to increase the pressure and reach the ratio to 0.7% recommended to rich and developed countries to give off their GDP in developing activities and tossing it up from about 0.21-0.22 or 0.23% as it is today. So that should be what we now focus on. Let us wait for the report and see, even though I find this idea of Jónína Einarsdóttir and Davíð Oddsson, whom I referred to as exciting. I'd like to say again that in my mind, evolution is a big deal in the world we see through our TV every day, where people escape poverty, many of course, but many are fleeing from poverty. Europe's nations are concerned about all the currents of people coming here, but with more intensive development, it is possible to help people build up their lives at home for which I think that is the very best thing most people would like to do if they were given their support. If at some point this is involved in paying a vote and more things are going to happen to agree with this bill, it is clear from the discussion that has been both during the last Parliament and today and yesterday and will certainly continue to be something until next week, that there is a huge gap between all the alleged supporters of the bill and those who have spoken and held it up. Then I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Lárus's Ástmar Ánar Hannesson, who was trying to settle matters, and who did so recently, when the council took a matter of great controversy, worked from it, and came to a mutual conclusion that everyone could reasonably feel at ease with pleasure. [[The president calls.]] I hope we have so much happiness to go that way because I think it's evolutionary cooperation for the benefit and for the politics of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] That is exactly one reason why the greater part is not going through much of its power; rather, we put forth more effort to reach a good conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u200	Madam President. First, I want to thank you. Árnadóttir For a good tour and the possibility that she could have considered what she wanted to say on this matter. This is a great deal, and we are eager to continue into the weekend, and by the end of Sunday, we are ready to finish it so that it can eventually go to votes. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress: If we were to try to look at this matter differently and to look at it in a positive way, it would be a good thing, a good thing to do. So a senator sees some positive aspects of bringing this into the Ministry? I've studied this case twice. The first time it was moved to the last council, when I came in here as a backup and now again. The most painful thing in my heart is seeing how reasoning is in the report, which only weakens the credibility of the bill in its entirety. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator - like this if you put on the Polotyanna glasses and look at these optimistic eyes: what changed for the better by moving this institution into the Ministry if anything? Well, maybe. A senator joined me in an effort to reach a positive conclusion about whether and how this would improve the present arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u201	Madam President. It's fun thinking practice as a boy. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir puts me here to try to find a positive surface in a language that I've spent half an hour at, in a speech today, talking about the flaws of, as well as countless answers and talks about the conference board of Presidents. It is absolutely true, however, that it is our job to dig into matters and try to examine them with an open mind and from all sides. I believe I have done so in all sincerity and have spent a long time reading the bill itself, the reviews that have been received, the former opinion of most of it. Foreign Directoring Committee and then sharing in the work of writing some of the committee's opinion. Foreign Affairs. So I've spent considerable energy here, both last winter and this fall, on this matter. And no. I just don't feel anything to measure up on this case. That's not a practical thing to do. Knowledge will be lost through it. We're losing defense in the pack. We know that DAC's peer review is coming in, and we can't take advantage of the information that will be presented there. She'll actually be completely unnecessary because she's already been cowed. No, I'm sorry. I just feel this whole thing forged.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u202	Madam President. It must raise questions if we cannot find some positive side in this matter. Now we've got what. While people who know more about the fact that this is a bad matter, some members of the Governing Body come to say that it is a good thing. The people who have put themselves really well into matters have a particular flaw. I don't think it's all about developing cooperation as a trade or as a political part of our system, but it's about how we share our actions within the council and outside and how we share our authority in the community. So I'm very interesting to see and to hear. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir finds the matter a threat. I think it's very serious, and I'm kind of more serious, and I'd like to see if it's okay. A senator does not agree with me when I say it would be better if people who love this matter could come and ask why we feel this is bad. Or come, and reason briefly, why this is good. We've heard it's a good thing, that's fine. Since then, we have heard that this is a bad thing. Hadin' read the bill, reading the two committees, I agree with that. A senator to see that this is a matter of tradition. In substance, this is not about developing cooperation. It's about the distribution of power and the compression of power, old Iceland and new Iceland, and it's about how we want to keep the reins when we're running the Kingdom Horse. I would like to ask, "What do you think of that? " When it comes to the distribution of power in the community? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u203	Madam President. Yes, it is true that it has been placed here from the platform, mainly in opposition from the beginning. The members of the board, that this is a good thing. But what I haven't heard is what reason is this is a good thing. It's just that it's a good thing, but nothing's being done to convince me why it's good. I think it's true that this is not about developing cooperation at all as a sort of subject or something we want to do well. You see, I think the sad fact is that this is more about not being interested in developing cooperation. Hv. A Christian may wonder that this is a question of how we share ourselves. I think it's a question of so much, much more. I think it's a question of how we share the quality of the earth. This is about how those in positions of authority, how those who are in position for wealth and quality of life, will maintain their privileges at the expense of poverty and poverty. That's what I feel so terrible about this case, if I'm supposed to be completely honest, and I think that that's exactly what happens with this case. It will be so much easier to hide how we as a rich nation will maintain our superior position, including the loss of transparency and loss of professional knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u204	V.E.G. President. I haven't, I think, made an answer before. A senator and I want to thank her for this speech and, like the other talk she gave on this subject. As she has hope and direction, she did well to defend herself against the evil work at its height. Ministers to attack the European Development Agency, which has the responsibility to help our smallest brothers and sisters around the world in poor lands. For example, it has been observed that a developing cohesion agency has managed to get other nations to include a billion people in a project that we are involved in with far too little money because we have failed to fulfill international commitments and promises. But, hey. A senator makes good use of protection, as it was hoped and referred to. A respectable president. Hv. A senator is also new in foreign affairs during this council. I notice, because when I study a meeting of committees, the case was sent out on September 24, with a delay to October 14th. On October 15 it is addressed and discussed. This includes reading - and I take it up to the point. The chairman of the Committee Birna Kristjánsdóttir announced a tragedy at that meeting. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir conducted a meeting - booked for a request from the memory of the part of a visitor with the permission of the president: The request was recorded, and it also announced that at that meeting, a committee would be resolved - the following day the meeting was announced. I've never seen one like this before. [[The president calls.]] I've never seen anyone want to see a guest and that it's not a good time. So it's my question to ask. A senator: has what to do. A senator feels that there was some word given from a minister to a member of the Committee, a fellow minister in this case, tearing the case out and not allowing any discussion about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u205	Madam President. Now I have to admit that because of my rather limited plagion experience, this is my second winter chief at the council, I have no enormous experience in what is customary in committees, so maybe I have a little to compare with that. But saying that, I'd like to say that, yes, I thought it was a great deal of effort to finish the matter quickly with the suggestion that the matter had been given extensive and good publicity at the time. The Foreign Affairs Committee for the last council. I'm not in a position to contradict that. However, I did not then sit on the committee as a nobility, fell into some meetings as a substitute. I would have liked to have more meetings personally, and I could have gone deeper into this matter. I have to confess that I am getting my experience out of this work and will no doubt make it different to the committee work because I feel that this has been a little water baptism in the manner of sitting and working on a committee when there are enormous differences in viewpoints. But as long as it's alive, hopefully, and I still have hope that we can get through this situation successfully. I want to believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u206	V.E.G. President. That's why. A senator on the question I asked was quite interesting to the Council to consider. Hv. A senator has not spent a very long time at the General Assembly, came in as a deputy for one or two of the councils since then, describing his experience in a foreign committee, how he was involved in this case. I'd like to say in my own due respect, with my professional employment experience, that I've been chairman of a committee and I've already thought about it during the last term of my year. The job committee offered endless requests from the memory of the visitors for a case related to fishing and fishing fees. We were always waiting for them. True, there were times when both senators and guests were set aside for a measure of time, and that was all right. It worked out fine. I think what's described here, and I've made it a subject by reading conference types and reviewing the dates completely indiscriminately. I don't care, and it doesn't matter that the case was discussed at the last council. It has been noted that three new members of the committee, including the chairman of the committee, took a good if that were the case. A senator was not starting a first-time commission at the Council, if I recall correctly. It would have made me feel that it was better and more professional to do this differently than I would have said on October 14th; the case is taken before October 15th; and the vice president announces that yes, it's okay for the guests to come, but the case will still be taken out the following day. [[The president calls.]] No matter what the guests say, no matter what would have been mentioned in the conference discussions and questions and comments of the guests and whether something would have to be better. [[The president calls.]] I'll give you an example, and I can't find it in conferences that representatives of the European Union of Iceland who make a lot of remarks to the bill have been allowed to attend the Committee's meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u207	Madam President. In recent years since collapse, it has been a great appeal to Icelandic society that the World Council is working in a different way, and I believe that the methods employed here are the main reason why so many people have little confidence in this institution. I think that part of the conflict here has been allowed to prevail for far too long, and it becomes so enormously clear in cases where opinions are so divided. It is not only here at the council Hall but, of course, coloring it on the committees of the council. I think all members of the council here need to take a look at themselves in this regard. I feel that it has been particularly prominent that new senators have pointed out this, they have a bit of a reaction to getting into this battle drive. Of course, members of Congress who have a lot of professional experience may also have pointed to this, but it may be a little tingle when you come into this workplace to witness this because I think we all have democracy and the democratic debates. I think we all want to get out of the deal that there's a lot more debate about just a simple bit, because I think we all know that democracy is so much, much more than that a simple more part crossed the smaller part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u208	A respectable president. I think it's getting pretty late in the day. I'd like to ask the highest. President, repeat the question I raised earlier as to whether the chairman of the council is quite clear what will happen to the highest level of travel. Minister at the beginning of next week, because then we will expect to continue this discussion. Are there any plans for the Minister to be here on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or next week? Or how are your plans? I can see why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason is here, and he'll probably be able to answer that. However, because the council has been spoken of as being in trouble, I want to say that we have an example of a situation in which difficulties have been resolved in a positive, well - mannered manner. I'd like to mention to form a natural protection law, where it's at the top of its head. paritaprevir Höskuldur, the Þór of Þórhallsson, was brought to the ground under a paradox flag and brought honor to all of us. You can work like this, and I want to make sure that you're okay. þm. Birna Kristian's daughter, who has sometimes talked for new politics to do so now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u209	Madam President. I'm next to the rosary. I'm one of the people who've been doing it both yesterday and today, asking for the highest degree of presence. A minister of the State to follow questions to him, to call on him for answers, and to try to force him to the highest degree. A minister would offer some evidence to support his case. I say it bluntly, I'm not harmed if I'm to be moved to give my second speech, the keynote address of this discussion, the teacher made these requests, without the highest priority. There will be a minister. I'm not entertained, Madam President. I believe it is under footing my right to be a senator in order to have a word with the Minister of the House. I don't give anything for some newborn explanation that ministers have no obligation to the council other than to enter their nose to measure for their bills. It's not like that. I was taught as a young minister in the other century, 27 years ago, that one of the richest ministers is showing respect and showing respect to the General of the Council and showing himself up there to his own matters. It would be a matter of Congress in this country. [[The president calls.]] I don't give anything for this kind of explanation. [[The president calls.]] I insist that the discussion be postponed before I have to give my second speech and that I will not be held until the minister is in the hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u210	Madam President. I can't help but insist. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I don't think it's going anywhere after that. A senator has held a long talk earlier during the discussion, repeatedly making a reply, and asking for the highest power. Minister here in the hall to address him with questions that have to do with the nature and content of this matter. I think it's the wish of him. A senator was perfectly normal. You can't let him speak here at night while he's at the top. A minister is far from playing with his companions in the Family Worship Party. Hv. paritaprevir Beggis Svavarsdóttir requested that the matter be held and the custody of the environmental committee. I get it. The fact is, they worked hard to settle the matter. But I do not agree with her wish. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir will take some special terms on these matters. [[The president calls.]] It is true that the practice of work is absolutely clear. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee and its vice president, the tveir Birna Kristjinnsdóttir og Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdótttir, were the most hideous work I've had in the Allied Congress of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u211	A respectable president. It's naturally completely premiseable to the highest. A minister sees he can't be here. I can't see any better, and I'm sorry to hear about it. My colleagues, that this kind of work has been done, that cases are just torn out of the committee like this, or that seems to be, with as little notice as possible. Not to mention it at the highest. Secretary of State can't see fit to be here. It reminds me mainly of the poem Valdimar Valdim Hólmur Hallstaður, by permission of a president: The one that is far away from the mountains behind you And good hopes are in my life. My mind longs, my heart is greatly missed. When I'm gone sometimes, I'm staying by. Don't you hear, your heart calls out? Don't you hear a storm when you greet me? Your beautiful memory left one, who never forgot while I'm alive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u212	Sing it, sing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u213	It'd be good if it was the highest. A minister would see his way here so that we could have fond memories together on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u214	V.E.G. President. I would have preferred to complete the conference on this poem. I'm going to do nothing but thank you for the day because I think it will be shown that there will be no more talks in this matter today simply because there is a very severe challenge to the government opposition at the General Assembly, which one voice has requested that the case be postponed until we get ministers in the Senate to answer some questions here. Although I am filled with gratitude for this pleasant day, unless less, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we could have spent more time. Here was the fourth session following what we will discuss, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. Then there are matters related to the unity of the institutions involved in the rights of the staff and the time of our day that would have been better spent by pressing the matter of Developmental Research and accepting them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u215	V.E.G. President. I kind of come up here to pray. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson apologized that he did not notice that he was attending this controversial eighth meeting of the State Department when the case was terminated and there was in the early part of Frosti, the son of Sigurjónsson. I had not noticed why. A senator who is a deputy of the committee came in there so that the matter could be taken out. I have to admit that during the discussion there has not been a member of the committee or what. The head of the Committee, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, has come up from time to time in connection with the President's conference board to state that his viewpoint had not changed on this impenetrable matter. The case should be handled more correctly, as it were, from time to time, two members of the Foreign Affairs Committee to oversee this case, and from the top of the United States alone. A minister should not have seen his own honor in being here to answer for this damn thing, this dumb case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u216	Madam President. All day long, only one man has had the courage and courage to come here to try to defend the highest degree. Secretary of state. Now it just so happens. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason is floating like a butterfly for the council, but even he no longer puts forth to come here to defend the absence of his minister - even to the point that he is so upset that he is more sliding at the councilhouse than to come and do a weak attempt to protect it at the highest level. A minister is not here. He has shown no testimony to come here and defend his cause. I reiterate it, as a number of senators have done here today, that this discussion will be completed only at the highest. Secretary of state, please report to the meeting. It's absolutely clear, like cooze. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson has said and more agree with him, that even if we have to stay here until March, this discussion will be over only to the highest level. The minister of state comes and stands before his case and informs of the political dwarves that men have claimed to have done in an effort to force this case through the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u217	President. I think this meeting is over. I'd like to direct the counseling to the government parties, the forward party and the Independence Party, to use this time well, Friday, Saturday and Sunday before the council meets again, to face the fact that it's all roasted here. The relationship between the General and the Commission is upset. This is where it's at. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budgetary committee, seems to have taken over the program of the Council's work. This needs to be discussed. Maybe the government's going to have to go over the country. Perhaps only the executives of the administrations have to settle over the national administrations, cross Congress, cross the core of Icelandic society, realize that this strategy and this approach and this behaviour towards the Council is not going to work out. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, and others who are here friends of democracy and good communication, to have a good meeting over the weekend, and to review these basics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u218	V.E.G. President. I said goodbye here a moment ago, and I was going to be on a positive note and thank you for the day. I assumed that the last talk in this case in this round had already been moved. But at least I have some doubts in my heart. I feel, before we go any further, we have the right to hear from the very mouth. President what the President's plan is in this regard. People here are making a sound about the President's conference board, and they have a right to know what the president's plan is, should we continue the discussion? Then I believe that some would like to be quiet and have something to say about it. But I feel that we have the right to hear from the highest level. President what the president's plan is for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-19-37.u219	President intends to postpone discussion.
