ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, industrial and business ministers and social and housing ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u2	A respectable president. The government has now presented proposals intended to pay for the disposal of a currency school, and I would like to say that they look better than you had the courage to hope at first sight. In the United States, we are familiar with various aspects. We proposed the 2013 election that by dropping the foreign property of the swellingers under the head of currency in 2012, it would be new to create public space to reduce the debt of state. I am happy to see this fundamental aspect of the ideas presented today. Also, we see that the work being done here during the last term in further processing of this case has apparently been built, and so have many since recently lost. So I want to ask the highest. For this reason: Is he not in agreement with me that the decision being made here and the policy that was set by the then government in March 2012 to strike down the foreign property of the swellingers of the bank under the currency was reasonable and was important for national interests? Does he not agree with me that the decision, in effect, created the basis for the success of this difficult situation as it seems to have been made here with today's proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to begin by saying about these matters and the two basics that will be presented at the council today that I appreciate the fact that it sounds like an excellent concordance to try to form the best basis for their success in this council. For action in the earlier stages of this case, refer to measures taken in 2012 and can be assured that this decision is relevant to the overall context of the objects. At that time, our main criticism was that humans did not have a complete perspective on the scope of the problem, and it was our primary challenge in a new government since 2013 to define the scope of the problem. It really wasn't proper for what the problem was until after a fairly large amount of expert work and in cooperation with the Secret Bank that a plan for Iceland's financial problems could be invented in the future. According to our criticism at the time of 2012, when men arrive at that time, and wanting to harden their heads, we simply asked the then - present government: What is the problem that is being attempted to solve? Or do they have no idea? Unfortunately, since 2008 we have underestimated the scope of the problem and what is more, we do not realize that it grew. For example, as the domestic financial companies owned by the international demands grew more and more profit over time, the crown mountain is growing, which is part of the problem we are dealing with today. This is my view of the effect of the 2012 operation and what has had to be done during this terms. It is first to understand the underlying problem, the size of the problem, and then you can come up with solutions to the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u4	A respectable president. I can agree with the highest. A minister that it has taken a long time to determine the problem, and the major step in it was followed by a change in law in 2012 when these foreign property were subjected to the oceans, since finally men began to focus on the special dangers that this efflux could create, which had not been a part of the judges of the Secret Bank. I'd like to say that we in the United States, and I'm all in the government opposition, would like to work with the government for the good of the initiatives set out here by the national economy, as we've always tried to do in the past. I don't think it would benefit us that we didn't have any luck to stand together in March 2012, and I think it's important that we try to do so now. I expect the government to take on the extended reconciliation of government opposition, which includes our being ready to work on this national interest issue with full integrity in cooperation with the government. [[The president calls.]] It also has to do something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u5	Mr. President. For this reason, let me mention the importance of having a clear tone of voice from this council that we have a broad convergence strategy and that it brings us into the community, that we are here with a plan that is supported by men and we intend to follow. I notice that in the first few hours after the information is presented, some people wonder if it may be weaknesses and what if someone is going to test the legal issues, etc. All of this has been considered, and if you take time to show patience that it will be considered in committees and discussions here, you will see that there has been a comprehensive program that will address all the major issues involved. There is no way to eliminate any uncertainty over all the future, but all the more reason to look forward has been met.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u6	A respectable president. This continues to take measures to reduce emissions. I'd like to start by celebrating these bills. I like them and I like them, at least at first glance, and be very much in harmony with the emphasis we have in the bright future. It seems that I have managed to get these matters into a responsible and responsible course, although it may have taken some conflict behind the scenes based on the way men have often talked about these matters. I am glad that all kinds of ways that I have always considered unrealistic, such as a failure route, are off the board. I think it was pretty clear for some time ago. It's good that we have two bills, one on the other, this tax and the bill that defines how the contracts should be handled. In the short future, all of us have emphasized the openness of this desperate approach. It is most likely the most successful result for this whole affair, and then the stable tax works as an incentive to achieve reasonable agreements that meet the right conditions. I'll tell them everything in advance that we're going to have a review on the Economic and Business Committee and it's going to have to have a full discussion where all the views are going to come out. At this point, I also feel very important to discuss that there is a need to control my expectations. It looks like 600 billion may come into an account in the Federal Bank, and it doesn't take any genius to see that it can develop a huge temptation, that one is tempted to view this money as some election fund or something like that. We need to keep in mind that this is the same money that went out here on traffic in 2005 and put everything on its side, and it's very important that they don't do it again. [[The president calls.]] I can see that they will be used to pay off public debt and nothing else. I'd like to know if it's the highest. The minister of finance is not on the same page.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u7	Mr. President. It is true that taxation or stability can pay a considerable amount of money. It then depends largely on the compositions of fixed contracts, stable taxes, and other measures taken, i.e. Whether all of the old banks go to the tax and make use of subsidies or whether they even go into payable contracts and pay steady returns. This will affect the way the State's contribution will eventually be made, but it will not change the fact that the bill holds that the budget should be used to reduce debt. Remember, too, that finding debts in itself is not easy to pay for without any undesirable effects without any further action. Therefore, it is assumed that each year's financial bill will review specifically how to pay off debts, debts, and how and how and to assess the effect on money levels. It is true that this amount of money can make a difference. The long - term range lies primarily in the falling debt of the state and thus in the less payload of interest. However, it can be the amount of money that runs at tens of billions, even on either side of 30 billion, and when this is allowed in the future, the need is, of course, not to increase expenses at the time that the economy cannot tolerate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u8	A respectable president. Sounds like the highest. The secretary of finance is on the same page with this. In the short future, it was a significant part of our presentation, that the bank tax, which was, of course, laid on the ground, the same tax resistance as this is being imposed, would be used to pay off public debts. The same thing we do here, everyone has to realize that this coin is not some kind of treasure that humans can use to push into the economy for all kinds of projects because it was just the same mistake that men made in 2005 when this money came into the Icelandic economy and became along with many other causes of everything that happened here. Just because there is good reason to stress this point at this point. When this money possibly goes in there, if it all works, into an account at the Federal Bank, let's say the latter part of 2016, in the leading election, it's not the highest. Secretary of finance as hopeful as I am that it will be achieved to keep everyone in the political arena to view this as some form of election? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u9	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. In principle, as noted, a senator does not have to discuss the matter much more than anything else. However, I would like to mention that the progress of the state funds should, of course, be shown in the better interests of the public in the country. Our opportunities and opportunities to continue building up the infrastructure, whether in the medical, educational, or elsewhere, grow in our ability to care for our investment needs there is no more than a source of pleasure. Hopefully, this will be the way of our thinking that the best way for gypsy to be done, progressively without trying to do too much at a single step, to get too much involved so that the state's financial affairs play out with the otherwise economic situation. If we keep our cards that way, it is obvious that we are here with a matter of nature that is nothing but a major milestone, a great news that will substantiate the interests of the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u10	A respectable president. I made a note of these new bills that we will soon discuss. First, I'd like to say that I'm very happy that they've come out. There are some things to consider to do this responsibility, but I dare say this is one of the more important things in this term. It is urgent that we work here together, trying to reach a mutual conclusion because the common interests of all of us are at stake, so obviously I don't think anyone can argue about it. My question to the highest. Minister's on the same line as if it were a question. 7. We're out of Suðvest. "The Guðmundur son of Steingrímsson, except I'd like to hear a little more about the use of money. We are talking about 3,450 billion, depending on exactly how it all comes about. Like what? A senator mentioned an enormous temptation. I'm just gonna tell you how it was during the last election, I was in the campaign, and I remember how all of a sudden 300 billion people made such irresponsible arrangements in my opinion that I was shocked. I have always regretted not complaining more about it then, but I complain about it now. I'm really worried that this will happen again. I'm almost afraid to claim that it will happen again, and that's why I feel so important that it is so clear from the very beginning how this money will be used and especially how it will not be new. In my opinion, it's not just about the stability of the crown, i.e. by making use of the money and throwing it all into the economy again or much of it, but also the legitimate of the operation. The legality of these measures is based on the need for national interests. That is the basis for this action, and I see it in the presentation and have heard of the people I've talked to that this is an overexcitedly meaningful prerequisite for doing this without demanding demands, i.e. Soaring, is a prerequisite for judicial action. So in the context of the legitimate action, I ask: Is it not important that this money be used specifically in order to maintain stability, i.e. to pay off debt or to hold onto it in order to maintain stability? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u11	Mr. President. Yes, that's fundamental. First, it is clear that a stable tax can contribute much to the State. Another factor is that these funds are to be set aside for payment and thus to lower the interest rate of an overly high state fund. It is because we have too much debt and even more because we have too much money. I do not get tired of reminding myself of the importance of talking to others about measures that can support further economic stability, balance in gangs, and thus decreasing growth in the public and the state. All the things mentioned in this discussion are important to these things. On the other hand, if there is a future improvement in financial privacy, we may be able to do more in road matters, in education, in health, in welfare, and in other important matters, it is only a cause for rejoicing. I'm convinced that everyone agrees on this. The key point is that the expenditures they should take in line with responsible financial policy and that possible growth in individual areas will not occur at the same time and there will be no room for them in the economy because the scope of the private sector is too high or we have other work to do in that and that time. The discussion that we have. A member of this body is here, and has become involved in other inquiries here today, the public financial support, the government laws on government finance, the goals we are going to set there for how we look for long - term, and the care that the expenses of the state's budget are not too high. Although we have room for that in the funds or the improved supply of the Kingdom treasure, there may be times when we may simply have to raise up the rest and keep up maintenance, even if it is a well - afforded year. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps there is one lesson we should learn from what happened in the wake of the crash. Even though that was a substantial part of the treasure, he was not enough to measure up to the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u12	A respectable president. I can't hear anything in the highest answer. Minister I don't agree directly with. There's one thing about the speech that's going on right now, and I don't blame the highest level of it. Ministers rather than others, and I'm afraid that people will simply hear a huge amount of money and that they can at some point use some space to build up the country. It's good and blessed, and I agree with it for a long time, but I find it overly important that we don't see for ourselves 450-Š850 billion that can be used right away, or actually soon if it goes away, much more to use this budget to allow the economy to straighten out so that he can finance these things on his own traditional terms, if I get the best of it. Minister right. What I'm also wondering is what part this innovation or disintegration is, or what a man should say, in the legitimate of the operation, i.e. how it can affect the language of the stretchers provided they start arguing against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u13	Mr. President. It is fundamental to the legality that here is presented in the history of actions directed to the payment problem and this raise of state funds and its potential to reduce debt are a side product of it. This is fundamental and is relevant to the legality of the tax. It's no secret. In other respects, in this discussion, it is good to mention that Iceland and I should aim to have less debt than usual elsewhere. This is now being done in the treatment of the council on the topic of public financial matters. We are thinking of heading toward a considerably lower debt ratio than others. There is yet another reason to use this time to reduce debt. We have a relatively fluctuated economy, depend on natural whims and fluctuations in our business markets, and need to be able to respond. We should also learn that lesson from what happened here. However, we have come a long way to rebuild our economy, primarily because of the low debt rate in the country when the crisis struck. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u14	Mr. President. The film is now beginning to clarify and primes of the law on stable taxes and financial companies because of forced contracts at last to appear and have received a broad presentation, as shown at lunchtime. This may be the big thing we've all been waiting for at this spring council, but it still stands to say that I had understood it as if we were also expecting a bill of housing benefits for this council. So it may be the only major matter that the council is waiting for and possibly the last puzzle in what will be done to the end of the council. In view of this, I'd like to ask the highest. Social and housing minister, if there's any hope of this bill at this assembly. Now it's June 8th, so the time we have here is getting shorter. I'm asking you, are we expecting a bill on your housing benefits for this council? Well, when's the best time to see it? A minister sees that we get to see it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u15	A respectable president. I've signed the necessary documents so that they can be distributed at the council so hopefully it'll be later today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for this brief, pointed, and joyful answer. I can't wait to see this bill. There's something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister. She said in unsubstantiated inquiries last week that it was her job to use her for the better of pensioners. There is something that we in our left movement have noted, that we do not think that it is enough to do with a 2% raise. V.E.G. Secretary of finance said earlier that the improvement in the interests of the state was expected to be in the interests of the public. I think pensioners are part of this public, so I want to ask the highest. Minister: Are there any new reports on how to treat financial benefits in the social security system based on the development of collective agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. We're going to work on that in the summer with regard to the implementation of social security and the 69nd. in the Social Security Act, where it is emphasized that social security should follow prices or pay development in the community, so it will go through it. I've also pointed out and answered several times here that there's work going on with the global reexamination of the social security system. In part, it is now being performed on a welfare committee where the rules are being passed. Well, I hope we can finish that stage this spring. Then I expect to arrive at the next assembly with some adjustments to the reform categories. There we will take the next step in improving the ideal pensioners, such as the rest of the country. That's what this day reflects, that we're taking the big step out of the collapse, and we can start looking ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u18	V.E.G. President. I'm glad we're getting the basics for the removal of problems and hoping that together we will succeed in leading it to a successful end. The reason I come up here is because we're on the subject, have been in the last days, and will continue today on a national budget for 2016-52019. I'm sure there'll be some changes to the national budget, but I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister directly: Is it with consciousness and wills to the highest social and housing minister that in the national financial programme of the government to the next four years, a 2% increase in money gain of government workers is expected, i.e. increase in excess of inflation, but only 1% in social security and benefits? It's gonna sting really hard in the eyes. We must realize that we are about to agree with this plan, if not tomorrow, someday very soon. This is a new form about working with a budget plan, and you expect people to get used to it, not doing things, and saying, "Well, we can't take it seriously, we're going to revise it for the summer. To say that there should be twice as much increase in the general population of state workers as in pensioners and relief workers. I know it's the highest. A minister noted that some should consider how the rise in the reimbursement rate and supply number. I have previously identified it as the former minister of the seminary, and we have discussed it repeatedly, that the problem with the laws and rules is that they are always accepted ahead of time. After that, the correction is needed. For example, over a period of time, raises were much higher than expected in the budget. But that correction never comes, and as a result, the pensioner is reduced again. The Ministry has calculated that this clot has already been 8-10% and none of it has come back. [[The president calls.]] I ask to hear only the highest opinion. It belongs to a minister, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur of Hannesson for the inquiry. But I think it's important to do so. So a senator himself thinks that when we last calculated according to a question received from a senator about the financial resources that have gone into public insurance, we took into account all the changes made on the system during the last terms, regardless of whether we were looking for the price change or pay number, we paid more into the system than it answered, and even though we had detracted the increase. We've never paid more when it comes to social security than we do today. However, I have said, and also in my first answer, that it is the natural attitude of this government and this administrative part that we are going to continue to improve the terms of all the people of the country, and we certainly do not separate from the pensioners. It may be understood, especially in the news of today, that the government budget proposed by financial and economic ministers will make significant changes. There are also warnings in this program, including who turn to other litigators of mine, which are the housing issues. I think we just need to discuss it in that light.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u20	V.E.G. President. If that's right, as high as possible. The minister says that there is nothing to plan for this plan, of course we should withdraw it, take it back into the committee, and give us time to fix it. This kind of work is very important to lay the foundation for budgeting and policy into the future. I'm glad to hear it. A minister notes that improvements were higher than prices during the last terms, especially for certain groups. In particular, the specific extensions weighed heavily. It was about 40 yards. K. and was significant for those who had no other income but whose failure is the failure of other income to reduce these benefits of a dollar. That's why you had hoped that now, when a new government would take over and the economy would get better, it would be correct because there it means that it's not until you're over 60 to 170 you. K. In pensions, which the minimum compensations actually increase. I know it's the highest. Minister would like to change this, I know she's reevaluating the law, but it's been delayed for two years. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear her opinion as to whether it's not the reason to wait on the government budget, instead of saying it's ruined, and make sure the rates will be right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u21	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator generally agrees that we are going to do better when it comes to choosing the pensioners of this country. I've felt nothing but that there is something that all members of Congress would agree that it is important to do and to continue to do. On the other hand, with regard to the government budget, it's the highest case. Economic and financial ministers moved here. It was tried to apply according to the information then available. As far as I can tell, a financial committee has tried to win it as best as possible based on the information it had then among its hands. On the other hand, plans are just plans. Especially when we're talking about this big operation and major changes, I think everyone understands that they can change. I think it's important then to adopt it in general with the Senate and the Board of Directors, but I think the matter is next scheduled at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u22	A respectable president. At 11:30 this morning, a press conference for members of the Parliament was held on the way through the release of the sea. The announcement of that meeting was received to members of the Parliament at 11:21 p.m. I know that the president worked very hard and had this presentation held, and I'm pleased with his initiative in this. However, there is concern and slight disappointment that the government should not have planned to have such a press conference and that it was not part of the program on this day to discuss with the government opposition. What we are dealing with is based on conversation, and you need to see the political life and communication in smaller parts and more parts as part of a conversation. [[The president calls.]] That's why I just wanted to realize that this is part of what we have to fix. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u23	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. A senator who spoke before me. It is not as if we are talking about some ordinary matter when it comes to what was presented here this morning. It wasn't until after last night's great regret and again this morning. The head of Congress on the left green, the Sigiss Svandís Svavarsdóttir, who had finally had this meeting, had a rather shameful experience, as presented here. Ten minutes before the meeting began, an announcement was received. In view of the large and extensive nature of the case, only a few questions could be asked because the main time, of course, began to introduce the matter in the 25 minutes that we had in order for the beauty show to begin in the Harpa, as this government seems to be the custom. When we look forward to completing this council, it is very important that the government realizes that it also needs the government's stand to finish the program that lies ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u24	Mr. President. Last night's situation was to introduce the prime endpoints for the members of the board, the panels of candidates, and the independence people, not members of the government opposition. It was obvious that we should just listen to the press conference to find out what was going on there that was totally unacceptable. I thank the president for responding well when the council members contacted him and crossed that position. The president agreed that this was not a decent way of dealing with the problem. The members of Congress and that's why we received this brief presentation between the 11:30 and the 12, which I thank you for. Obviously, though, the structure is completely unacceptable, not acceptable, to this large, high, or respectful nature of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u25	President. I have to agree with that as before. speakers have said. I come in as an observer to some extent during this terms, and I wonder at the kind of work being done here and actually appeared at the meeting last night, highlighting the solidarity and seriousness of the situation. It was the first Sunday meeting in the Republic's history. I thought it rather ludicrous, if I may take the word into my mouth, that those in the government and I included were to take such a matter on a program without any information, without any information available on what we would take. Yesterday, it was not meant to spoil the harmony with such an observation, but it is appropriate that it should appear here late.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u26	A respectable president. I wanted to agree with it as before. Similarly, when it comes to capitalists, members of the Parliament have told them that it is important that the Council work best together. It must be said, just as it is, that it is more difficult when overcrowding the various issues that have recently marked the council, at least more unpleasant than it would have to be. So I think it's important for all of us, for the country and for the country that we're trying to figure out a way to deal with the issues so that we can all be connected to a budget decommissionor. This is what I think we should be discussing and considering right now. I'm gonna say it in a single, specific article because it's the nation's biggest interest. Today, we simply have to keep our place and set our priorities properly at this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u27	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a proposal for interpretation of the State budget for 2016-2019 as the Supreme Court. President said. It's a lot of paper for over 54 pages, but it's just one page. The second is an article with these suggestions. What are they about? Yes, they point to the main economics, the estimated total income in those years, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2018, total expenditures, divided, the total balance of state funds in these years, the rate estimated, the initial balance of state funds, the capital balance, the total budget. Then, of course, the report is important because it presents the focus of the government and the subsequent events of the council, if that is approved. That was the exact tip of the question. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, who pointed to the discrepancies that would be expected in the purchase power of the government and then to the elected pensioners, representatives of the people who are supported by a insurance agency. That's exactly the tip. While this is not in the Congress itself, it is based on the evidence and the alleged facts presented here. Criticism of this suggestion has largely been the point of pointing out that there are many things that are unclear and that are not really the time to make the statement. Men have mentioned the interest rate. We do not know how they develop, and they depend on various factors. The agreements and commitments made by the government have been identified. These include a 16 billion tax reduction to income tax in the remaining two years. There have also been cases of delinquency, the consequences of having the status of the State Fund and the sizes set out in this document. All of this is absolutely correct. But now I want to start by asking: Is it good to put down such a piece of paper, i.e. A proposal for a hearing about a state-of-the-aggressary program? What's good about it is obvious. It is important that we try to think about the future and keep our land in place, i.e. as much as it would be possible to lay down for us where we're headed, what the prognosis is, and so on. This, of course, is excellent. Now, however, my superiors come in front of me. We need to look at this and this proposal for action in relation to something else that is going on, other basics that have come up, and policies that are now at the table of the General Assembly. I'd like to start by referring to a bill to a song about a change in the law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. In the 3rd. It is referred to by the newly appointed Ministerial Committee and their legalization. In accordance with current legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, the prime minister, with authority and approval of the government, is available to appoint Ministerial Committees, which are being legalized here. The report on this aspect of the Management Board says, by permission of the President: While the proposal is also presented in relation to the establishment of a bill on public financial matters, according to the proposals set out there, the responsibility and authority rights of legislation will increase significantly, which is once again requiring increased coordination and consultation within the board of the board. In other words, in the legal bill I've referred to here, about the change in Iceland's Council of Government, you're looking into this context that I'm now raising. In the opening words of a paper with the synonym, it says, with the permission of a president: For the first time at the spring council, the U.S. Council will be conducted in accordance with the General Assembly. This new arrangement aims to promote policy-making coverage aimed at the objectives, main lines and overall sizes of the first budget management process before further implementation is carried out in the preparation of a budgeted bill for the next year. This is the opening words in a paper with the council resolution proposal that we are here for today, the Congress resolution of a national budget for the coming year. Here is indirectly, but directly on the Management Board bill, referred to the bill as a legal guide for public financial matters. There are some who have raised doubts and I am one of them. I want to look at all of this in context of what is suggested there. What's suggested there? It is suggested that we try to take the budget into a more targeted direction than has been, and the thought is that it is agreed to a national budget, based on a government declaration, and adopted by the Parliament at the beginning of each election period, which is set down at baseline and main policy. Then there will be a four - year budget and every year, in spring, leave the government for a more precise framework of what is once thought. All of this is for its own good. In other words, we are trying to find ways to work more systematically. But wait. As we study the thinking of this and the progress process, we see in this the overview of public funds on how to define financial policy and then financial agendas, baseline financial policies, financial agendas, and then financial policies and then financial agendas. It is an old - fashioned tone. I'll come back to the way this whole thing gets mixed up with the case we're discussing right now because it's a kind of gene-ral test that shouldn't be taken very seriously, I think. It's a bedlock, but if all these plans succeed, they're going to take it into a much more moving course in the future. Seven. By permission of the President, the bill for official financial legislation says: ▪ Economic and financial agendas for public and economics, i.e. Section A of the State Fund and Part A of your country partner, by Figure 1 2.mg. Section 4. shall be in accordance with the following conditions: 1st That the total balance of over five years should always be positive and annual, at all times, below 2.5% of land production. 2. At the same time, apart from the debt of pensions and business debt and the disclosure of funds and bank accounts, less than 45% of the gross domestic product. 3. If the 2-count ratio is greater than 45%, the excess ratio should be reduced on average over each 3-year period by at least 5% (1/20) per year Then, the economic criteria of the bill are further defined. Then what? Yes, then a financial body is arranged with three agents, two elected by the General Assembly and one appointed by the prime minister and shall be chairman of this council. What is the role of this Governing Body? The role of this body is to review the plan and then the budget when it comes to seeing how they fit into a previously approved policy that would result in our controversies. Then there is a financial bill, and then this financial body should check whether we here are doing what is right according to the values in there. It's fine in a business, I'm sure it's fine in a business, but we're not a company, we're a community, and there can be a number of things happening in society. There may be volcanic eruptions, there may be many years of age, unemployment, etc. For example, Keynes would not have written on this. He would have said, in times of unemployment and crisis, we would like to be a country or rural society to carry out animal projects. By the time I came in as president of the BSRB in his day, the organization had been built tens of summer houses in Mundunes and east of the oaths. We were in a huge debt because of this. Would it have been a good investment because we had little advantage, which then came to govern the organization to do anything besides pay off our debts? Yeah. It was a good investment, very fine, and for the next few years, it just went down the debt and got land under the feet. However, this needs to be done at times; this requires state and rural society to do the International Cash Fund, however, is not very much fond of such thinking, and because he has managed to talk Swazi into this arrangement, everyone believes that there is a stamp on the quality of the arrangement. I have such overwhelming doubts. This is what a foreign person is called a budget transfer, and I understand very well that the Independence Party likes this approach, but I would have thought the left side of the advance would have some doubts. If you think this case is going to be like drinking water through the council this spring, it's a big misunderstanding, I think. I can't believe there's more than I think. As we know, this case was torn out of a budget a few days ago and if you're going to force this fundamental change through the council, I don't think it's under control. This needs to be examined much more. In other words, I think it's fine if we just think of the state as a company that needs a minimum debt. That's how I like it. I'll take it out. I am able to ensure that we handle the government's budget carefully and try to adjust our course, of course, and preferably the rest. I think it's a goal, but it's not supposed to be a legal objective because there may be other circumstances, and we should not download ourselves like this, as suggested here. Then I'd like to bring up another subject. Business councils are being established and established. Is there some kind of welfare advice that monitors us to carry out our legal duties with patients, with those who are to benefit from social security, etc.? There are more laws than financial laws, and more must be left on the run by state and rural society. I'm sure we're looking to a social event. No one is doing it but the natural council, and I want to promote the council. I don't argue that we don't try to control government spending, that we don't try to be bossy, make plans, and be precise about it. So, of course, I am a follower, but when it comes to these trials in the law, I have very serious doubts and call for much discussion on these matters. Then there is one thing, when we start talking about expenses for certain factors, people use a variety of arithmetic approach in questions and answers. We heard earlier at the highest. A health minister spoke of the fact that the financial resources for social security had never been more than this. If we look back in time, we do not care about nearly all factors. When we are smaller, our health - care providers are getting a lot more than they did. Then there are other account links, such as the percentage of the government's expenses, and these can be viewed in different ways. I found interesting numbers that came from the National Bank Economics Department at the end of October that discussed Land Hospital. The reason I record this is because statistics about Land Hospital were cited for last week's discussion. Hv. paritaprevir This was the case with Gudleful Þórðarson. It was once again that it was far better than it had been before. It's not. What the last government can have is that she wanted to talk straight about these things and to tell the truth and the right thing. The collapse, of course, followed by the collapse of income - stock institutions and farmmates. The cost was summed up on all aspects, most for performance and at least in the transfer system, but almost all society organizations were somehow affected by this. However, we tried to face this too on tax returns, and a few days ago, the Empostons took up the business council saying it was a world record, I think, in taxes. I'd be very proud of that world food, but that's not to say we have the highest taxes. We have much lower taxes as a share of national wealth than we do in the North countries. I'm going to quote this report from the National Bank. It assesses the development of a donation to LSH and how much it has received from the government during the past 11 years. All sorts of warning officers are put into this, but then it says, by permission of the President: LSH was about 8% through 2007, then decreased to 5.6% and gradually increased. A second way to assess the evolution of LSH costs is to examine your expenses during this period. In 2013, the hospital's budget was about 111 of you. K. the cost of human beings and the actual cost of 127 you know. K. If the cost of the last 11 years is set on fixed prices in 2013, you will find that the cost was between 150 and 160. K. a man up until 2008 and then dropped by 110 o'clock. K. In terms of financial resources and the cost of real life, there were about 120 of you. K. It is clear, then, that in recent years, the hospital has leaned down, whether it is a part of government spending or the cost of a person. I'm just calling it a matter of recommendation here last week and then review it to the highest degree. Minister of well-being. We need to look at the real values when we appreciate the support that our welfare institutions receive and should not be referred to in the number of crowns, for it tells us nothing at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech asking why. A senator who has a lot of political experience about the position of such a synonym once it has been approved. The suggestion begins with these words: Council figures out, cr. 6 mg. 25. track No. 55/1991 on the General Assembly, that the government complies with state-of-the-aggressary policies for 2016-52019 according to the following overview of the planned development and debt development of the year and so on. Then the summary is published. What if a body of Congress does what has been suggested by a greater proportion of legal committees, i.e. that the decision to be accepted unchanged, although we know that housing projections and costs are not expected in this room, the tax change has not been expected, at least Not all of it. IRS changes are expected because it is the policy of this government to simplify the tax system, but it is assumed to cost only 21.7 billion, but the tax changes that were presented the other day cost about 10 billion if I recall that number correctly. Since then, emissions are expected to be effective. If money comes in to pay off debt, it also affects the whole result. This conclusion was submitted on April 1, and now over two months later, such changes have occurred, and I ask why. A senator sees what he's accepting. Why is the execution authority tied when the council is approved by the figures presented in the table?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u29	V.E.G. President. If this isn't a simple form of enforcing, I don't know what it means to work with numbers that are, like the dog. A senator points to, very hazy and impossibility. There are many factors. A senator points to yet to be seen. It mentions the housing situation, that has been very vague, and it has been spoken about several billion. This is the accuracy of this and, as I say, 16 billion income taxes are said. What does that mean? What does it mean to be decommissioned? I agree with it. A senator is saying. Then it is time for the center of her cheek. It's a matter of nature to be taken seriously by the Council. I suppose we're accepting a case, and that's why we're making a pact to be followed. On the other hand, I raise certain doubts about the good thing to push too hard on the subject. For example, I felt that there was a very good tip from a cause. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson before the development of purchases and insurance benefits. Do they think we won't talk about it in the fall? I'm afraid we will. It's not exactly a synonym but it's the premise and the reasoning support that's set out there. My conclusion is that in view of the fact that Congress should be taken seriously, the government should withdraw this and simply let it lie. I guess we're not going to agree to a government law on government finance. I hope no one has the grill in their head. [[The president calls.]] Then we should use this as a frame of reference for a discussion, and it is good and useful to take a discussion on the terms of the money, but as a guide, this is useless.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u30	Mr. President. What I'm worried about is that there are reasons for the figures displayed in the table on the first page of the Senate resolution proposal, such as those that have to rely on compensation should not develop in the rhythm of pay development. It is simply assumed on page 18. 65 on schedule. The annual increase of 2% of government workers is expected, but only 1% of those who have to rely on compensation are expected literally to be cut apart by these groups. We may now take the discussion and protest it, but the question is, Where does the coin get picked up to close this gap? Will the welfare services be cut down? How should we respond to the figures given for expenses and income? Then, too, it appears on page 18. 35 very clearly that if the salary of a government employee exceeds 2% per year in this schedule, it will be cut off. In addition, a cut-off of 1% is expected to be 5.5 billion. I'm asking why. A senator whether he doesn't believe that there's a sharp cut-off policy and too many billion in cuts on the welfare services of the community after they have had to go through it and such during the last term after the economic collapse. How can you tell? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u31	V.E.G. President. I see this document as a mixture of plans and threats, including threats to public employees, many of whom have been on strike for two months. Is it not during the tenth week that the strikes have lasted? I feel disrespected by putting matters into practice in this way. This is where the parties are trying to reach a conclusion. No one plays the game of being unemployed during this long time of work. It has been discovered that the people are really serious, that they do not accept their terms, and then they have to assume in government budgets that the results will be different. If we were speaking far into the future, surely the terms of the budget are usually bound to prices, and humans do not go beyond that, but this is just happening in these days. It makes you feel abnormal to put in such a document and I simply share worry. This document was approved by a senator without much further discussion about its contents. If the idea is then to stick to this frame, it's a serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A count of Jónasson's son before the speech. I want to be that way. Harðardóttir I'm one of those who've wanted to see long-term decisions at the council, i.e. to establish grounds for the council, to discuss, to take a stand on matters, and to discuss the basics, as this is exactly how commercial growth is expected and what tax system will be. How do we make up for the social factors in our system, including social security, benefits, and so forth? I feel that the administrative part has been talking a little disrespectful about this government budget that I think is a good step, including already at the highest level. A minister says, "It's just a plan, when you're in on it. This is where they give the premiums. I'm saying this in particular because only what was written in the committee's opinion more than part of it at the same time. Legal committees in the budget bill - of course, they knew that it had been installed there. We're talking about health and education that's headed for it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. paritaprevir Guðlaugur, son of Þór, the god of Þórðarson. As a result, we are to work on it, but it is mentioned in the committee's opinion from what point of view. It's a legal committee. I'd like to hear more about whether it was not a reason for sending the case back into a committee or, like, a waiver. A senator said, to the government. Another thing I'm worried about in this national budget is the common consumption, i.e. how much we're going to factor together to make arrangements between us using the system to be equal and to ensure that the welfare system is working properly. This is a targeted conclusion, and we are far below the North countries in terms of the consumption and infrastructure of the community in relation to this strategy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u33	V.E.G. President. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannah, son of Hannesson, if we are going to take this seriously. He rightly says: It is vital that we try to make a schedule for the coming time. I'm fully satisfied with it, although I don't want to pass on the demands that are expected in the bill to legalize public financial matters, not at all. If we are going to try to unite in some general frame, the precept is that it took place in a very thorough and well discussed way. If the majority of the people are to have this case, I ask about the discussion that has been conducted or has not been carried out in the administrative part. This is political emphasis that can make a difference if a person is going to bite in the accompanying box and the basis for his building. I have a feeling that this discussion simply did not take place. Then it's just one of those cops we get in the hands and it's a little bit of a bag, but if you're gonna give it meaning and it's gone through the council without a question, it's just gotten harmful. I reiterate my suggestion that this matter be simply retracted. It's not a hundred in danger. True, it's part of Congress law that they're supposed to put out some frame, but we're in a journey that's scary in my opinion if we add up all the bills I've referred to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u34	V.E.G. President. I share that opinion with you. Senator, I don't think there's much discussion about this or that: Don't worry about it, there's nothing to figure it out, we're going to change it, and it's up to you in terms of how you follow your policy, etc. I don't believe that we're going to be united in a political frame of budget, but I believe the debate is extremely important. Of course, when you express your opinion about changes in the tax system or if they like it, etc. People there speak of simplicity. I've never understood that once men have the most advanced computer systems, they always have to simplify something so they can handle it. I want to come to everything else. Hv. A senator mentioned in his speech just how important it is for us to base on the facts, at least figures that were based on either solid prices or some proportion of, for example, land production. He then specified health issues because men have been playing there making numbers. Among other things, there was an interesting experience. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson, who believes that human donations have increased by about 10 billion. It turns out it's the same-priority effort, that's the contract for child-free dentistry, etc. There are other things in there, but this government has never set in motion. If we are going to accept the agreement made by the doctors that we are going to be in the highest order and are going to be as much on health care as in the North, we need to move from about 9% of land production to about 10%. There's an increase of 18◯19 billion. It is an example of what you want to see, that you have such goals, that it is not unusual for us to try to work out some percentage, i.e. of land production, because it's the standard for what we have available and what we might have in our community that we'll turn it into our basic educational and health system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u35	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - fearing son Hannesson of all his emphasis, especially on his appeal that we give this matter of Congress and others alike, the basis for a deep discussion on these matters and the context of the parts. There is a link between cutting down the hospital or the health system or keeping expenses there in big pay and a decrease in income tax. There are 16 billion there, about 20 billion that we needed, or referred to the amount of health care. There's a connection between these things. Do people want to pay taxes into their health system to finance it? Yeah. It is remarkable that when people have been asked if they want to finance the health system through taxes, pay into the system while we are free, available, and employed, or if we want to wait until we're sick and pay access to the user fees, they say: We want to pay taxes. This is a discussion that needs to be better reached into the conference hall, and we need to discuss this context. It is not enough to put forward, as the administrative body has made it a national interest bill and a plan for this by means of a more detailed report and all forms of indirect commitments and then run away and let us discuss this almost in the middle of nowhere. It's not working. [[The president calls.]] This needs to be a living, real discussion where each person listens to another person.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u36	Mr. President. We'll talk about a second round. Suggestion for the resolution of a national budget for 2016-52019. In the beginning, I want to say that I have some doubts, one on the one hand, about the strategy set here and how good it is as a plan, and one on the political ones that are called in the program. I'm going to go over it here. The purpose of such a strategy is to reassign the budget to the year, thus giving the General Assembly a better time for discussion and policy development on the main aspects of the budget. When it comes to making donations, the budget will already be discussed on these main points of the budget. This in itself is positive, but it must also be possible to rely on or at least feel that there is some support. The plan shows that despite the positive signs in all major areas of the budget, there are important uncertainty factors. It suggests that most of the results of collective agreements as well as the decommissioning of capital stores are, although, in fact, more than half of the size is considered. The legal committee noted that delinquency can, in fact, have a positive and negative effect on the debt status and the financial expenses of the state. In other words, there are huge uncertainties and perhaps even the highest. A government to some pity that this is a big deal, and so it may not be easy for a government to plan for it. I still think it should have done better here. In that case, the charges here are not rated for individual ministry or litigation classes. That exchange will not be revealed until by contributions from the budget in the fall, but it will be a little difficult to discern what the paper will mean by translating down delinquency to lawsuits. I'm going to go over a few of the issues I consider important in this discussion. Many of them are mentioned in the Committee's section of my history. The budget board. First, there is the contribution of the State Fund. As many as 8% of GDP between the years of the year, the contribution of the State Fund was positive, but during the financial collapse it cut down, as we all know. The provision bath from year to year 2013 was very good. Of course, a great and vital debt pool was stopped so that we could recover and out of the cow from the crisis. However, in 2013 the recovery rate is low, and in this program, slow growth is expected each year from year to year. The smaller part of it. The legal committee points out that it should be kept in mind that the estimated collection of Kingdom funds between 2016 and 2019 is aimed at the fact that there will be no impact on the bank's status. Its potential influence on debt or capital balance is not expected. At the same time, agreements are not expected to significantly affect the price change and growth rate. Of course, the person mentioned here hopes to be successful. It is of utmost importance to us that the effects on the Cronze's position will be remembered. However, I asked myself, " Would it not have been better to have a table for a living and even to assume that something can work badly and then have time to deal with it? ' The budget board, with permission of the President: ▪ Not much can be said to cause the state's post to become negative, and debt collections to start again. - That's a warning I think we need to pay attention to. Regarding the contribution of government funds, the minority also points out in its committee list that if there had not been a decrease in hunting charges, if there had been no wealth taxes, and if a large tax of energy would not have been lifted, the product of government funds would have been restitution and far better than the case. This is of utmost importance, i.e. where and how the state manages to earn money to care for the interiors of society. This is fundamental, as well as how you take your income. In the context of my section's article, he feels that rather than falling away from various forms of income, it is more likely to strengthen the side of income, just to allow space for subsidies and investments in infrastructure to be possible. It is clear that after years of the collapse, there is a great need for investment in society's interior. There is a great need for building up, whether we call on health care, transportation, the road system, or nursing homes for the elderly. Of course, that would be long enough. I think the public in Iceland is getting a little long after seeing a better place in the structure of society that we've come out of the collapse and that the state will continue to spend money on trusting in the infrastructure. In terms of the remuneration programme, there is an increase in the financial resources of public employees of 2% per year, i.e. that there will be no more than 2% annual increase in the average population over inflation. It is said that if a collective agreement causes further increases, it will be achieved with what is called the appropriate countermeasures to reduce pay costs, such as contracting to the staff, to workforce and the like. Like a smaller part of a snooze. The legal committee says this in human language means that if collective agreements give more than a 2% increase in power of money, it will be cut down in the government. The minority also points out that the medical system and education systems alone are more likely to be affected. The plan estimates that the improvement in social security is only increased by 1% over inflation over 2016 in 2020. I think it's a big concern that this is a suggestion. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, in an unprecedented question period earlier today, said that the improvement in the interests of the state's funds should take place in public interest, but I can't see from this financial program that disability or other pensioners are considered public, as it is assumed that their financial growth will be less than that of others. I don't think that's an increase. V.E.G. Governments work these days and weeks to introduce the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. I just want to remind you that decent terms are part of that covenant. The protocol also includes simplifying the income tax system in that two lower tax steps will be combined to one. In the minority opinion, you can see that these changes are not explained further or that they will affect individual income groups. It is critical that this strategy is as vague as it really is. It also points out that according to this synonym, there appears to be no plan on how investments should be conducted. It is almost Colombian, or perhaps rather cryptological, that it is noted that this is where the government's policy, which involves new and uninformed tasks, does not really know who they are and therefore may be said that policy is not in itself. I believe there are a number of concerns in this strategy that concern health or health matters. The minority points out that from reading the national budget, no other conclusion can be drawn that it is not possible to start a new hospital until the first year 2020. I don't think that's exactly what we all do or at least most of us here as well as the public were hoping would happen sooner. In addition, the proposal suggests that demographic development and built-in structural growth are guided by only 3% of actuality in pension and S-marked medicinal products which, in view of the smaller part, do not exist to take new S-labelled medicinal products during the season of the programme, where the cost of their uptake would be greater than that of this schedule. I think this is one of the advantages of living in Iceland in an ideally successful community, that despite dealing with chronic health problems, the quality of life has been quite good. If new drugs are to be slowed down, the standard of living for those using these medicines will be affected and, among other things, may be affected by those who become smaller and simply have the ability to participate in the community, not to mention the effects it has on the mental and physical well - being of these individuals and their families. To sum up what I've said, I don't think this is a good plan, since the uncertainty factors are just too many to build on the plan because they're unclear, and then I'm worried about the politics that the bill is publishing, including... What you can read on page 24 Thirty-eight on the bill itself, on a budget-exploited policy goal. It says that the aim for real growth is to be slower than the actual growth of GDP until 2019, with the permission of the president: This means that the proportion of primarys without irregular VLPs drops by 1%, or from 24.4% in 2015 to 23.4% in 2019,◯ In other words, this is the best standard for any real government business, so it means in human language that the amount of money spent on government management is to be summed up. I think that for a welfare community that wants to live up to this, it's simply too low, and that's why I think we should just create another and a better long-term plan for the state money where the welfare system weighs and gets a larger share of the whole cake.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u37	A respectable president. I believe that a four-year national budget is an enormously important document. This is the first time we ever talked about her here. We have some comments to her, wanting her to be more accurate, to divide more into frames, to lawsuits, and so forth, but I think that it may be overlooked because it is submitted for the first time and, of course, the framework of this plan or how it is submitted to make changes in the course of progress. It is always difficult to predict the future, when some wise man would say, and may well agree. Of course, it is difficult to plan four years in advance, and we must realize that conditions will always change in four - year schedules. Now, however, I feel that there are two main executives leading this program, the other part of the collective agreements, and the steps that were presented this morning to the decommission of the funds registers. They are wise to change Kingdom funds. I think it's a little bit of a primary audience, so I'd like to ask you a question. A senator will see if she can agree with me that a financial committee should take in this plan now and examine these adjusted criteria. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u38	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that this is new. It is not a great tradition for providing a financial program in this form. It must, therefore, be possible to develop and learn from experience now and see the next time this would have been done what would have been a good idea to do in some way differently. There are unusual situations upstairs, especially with regard to the currency capitals, the changes being made to the pioneers introduced this morning, not exactly routine, and, hopefully, we won't have to cope again soon. In view of this, I feel that there is plenty of reason to do so. The legal committee takes matters back to themselves, and now that the situation is under way, an assessment of the situation is made. I also find the collective agreements a good reason to take the case back into the committee, but remuneration is always changing, so that it may not be quite the same as Šbormal Size, if I allow myself to crash, not as unusual a situation in this regard. But because we can foresee extreme increases, e.g. in the lowest terms, it is also strong enough and important to reingest the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u39	A respectable president. This budget does not announce political news because it is, in my opinion, a continuation of what we have seen in the history of this government, an increase of spells on the less and the relief of those who have more. We've seen a decrease in hunting costs, that rich taxes are not extended, and now they want to be disturbed and uplifted by the electricity tax. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will agree with me in that this government budget does not welcome, does not offer an even greater equation in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u40	Mr. President. I can truly agree that this national budget does not bring political rejoicing. It does, however, have such advantages, so to speak, and even exposes the course as the highest. Governments are in place. As I said in my speech, I am deeply concerned that the percentage of GDP spent on the same time as cutting off the best available items is being drawn together. This involves increasing inexorableness, as the load spreads them in a unfair way, and the welfare system is weakened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u41	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech and a good overview of key factors, can be said, the report for this proposal. You're right next door. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir who showed up before that it is normal and must be taken seriously by this document. It is a continuation of an alliance over the political lines of bringing the government's affairs to a better standing than they had already collapsed and had been in the past for 10 to520 years. This is a step in the course of celebration, and we expect it to be possible to take it seriously. Whatever the reason for this and what it says, it was submitted April 1 this year, although not directly stated, much can be seen out of that policy of the government, though it is not to be taken out of the picture, even if it is not to be replaced by a system of spending that is not to be done until the fall. There's a big problem with this document that it doesn't follow. It can be seen as a dog, among which it can be seen. A senator rightly mentioned that there is no actual increase in public investment during the coming period. On the other hand, it is true. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson noted that private workers are expected to increase their investment, but they are not in the infrastructure that the Senator spoke about, in travel, transport, education, health services, etc. [[The president calls.]] It is worth considering what conditions will be like in 2019 in these articles if you are to take the matter seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u42	Mr. President. As I came into my speech, I worry about what was highest. A government is, in fact, ambitious, I'd like to say, when it comes to strengthening the infrastructure. To be honest, I have one of the greatest concerns about the medical system, for as long as the health system has been under extreme pressure, to form because large women who are involved in it and who are partners in BHM have been in a strike for nine weeks without any expansion in the contract, we also read in the media about preparing a private core of health care. To be honest with you, if the government is even going to cut down, at least No additional benefits, but at the same time privates are coming to the weather and entering this field in increasing numbers. I don't think that it will benefit the public at all and that, of course, will only further weaken the welfare community that has been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u43	President. Yes, this is an interesting and really urgent subject. Table on page 24. 7, which is presented as forecasting but, in reality, has a basis for understanding government policy, public expenses are expected not to rise. However, personal investments are expected to increase. What we see today these years after the collapse, and in reality after the right government, which lasted here decades before a collapse with minor exceptions, is that the main infrastructure we need is what the professional life needs in the country, is that it needs to be improved. More important, there is a turning point in society, e.g. an increase in elderly ones, requiring much more investment in infrastructures that are not seen in this long-term program established by the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u44	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. We can't see any place at the top of it. The government has any interest in strengthening the infrastructure. In my previous answer, I spoke about the health system and that it does not plan for increased funding for the next few years. There is another example, the road system, one of the things that have been a little discussed in transport planning. It is of utmost importance in our country, that we can get around here and maintain normal relationships, employment, and everything. It's based on us getting somewhere between adequate legal and safe roads. I'm sorry, but I feel that in quite a number of places, I lack all ambitions for the highest. A government or possibly a better politics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Steinunn speech for Árnadóttir's aged daughter. We're talking about a state budget, a Congress resolution as high as possible. For the first time, the secretary of finance was in harmony with the General Assembly. The existing strategy clearly shows the reversal that has taken place in terms of the terms of this government, where the debt collection was stopped and opposed created to form a basis for a payment of debt. Last year, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator's role in the State Fund is to match mood swings and to be on the move to cope with the tragedy. Hv. A senator came in on the turn of a crash and discussed the positive growth of a government fund in the years leading to collapse despite heavy tax growth. Happily, the wealth of the state was inaccessible, up to the level of debt, and thus on better opportunities to cope with that shock. This is now the state financial programme that we are offering not to reinvest a section of the debt-expensive reimburse other loans with more favorable interest rates. Cumulative interest rate from collapse is 580 billion per cent. So it is very important to achieve a reversal in order to promote a government fund in order to be better equipped to cope with future challenges and to cover interest payments that come in for payment each year. In view of what happened. I expect a senator to agree on the role of a trust fund, but I ask about the mind of the individual. Hence, a senator is to use the financial resources that result from selling the government's share in finance to pay off debt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u46	Mr. President. I don't completely agree with what. A senator of the nation's economic reversal of the highest economic situation. The government alone, but it began much sooner. Of course, he saw a clear spot in the former government, just to be maintained, but the recovery has increased, fortunately. I think we should be a little bit worried that in the plan we are expected to slow down this year's recovery. There's got to be something at the top. A government that we private members of Congress are to bear in mind and be concerned about. You're right. A senator says, and in fact, one of the things I didn't come into my speech is about the importance of paying off debts. That is of utmost importance in the future. As for the sale of the financial property of the state, I just have to admit that I'm not well enough at it to know just how well it would be possible to sell money against what the government can profit from sharing in these financial companies. So I don't trust myself here and now to say on or off what I would consider the most reasonable in that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is yes, and he thinks we're going to take it easy. A senator is in the foundation of agreement on the importance of promoting state funds and paying off debts as well as the sale of financial contributions from the State. The timing there is essential for sales and the value of the object and for many other factors involved. In the second answer, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator into stability. Hv. In accordance with growth in GDP, a senator introduced the cost development and growth in terms of GDP, that there is a relative decrease in cost interest compared to growth in land production. What does that count? For example, when it comes to maintaining stability, was a senator the most important thing? Is it not even more important that we put priorities in order to emphasize the priorities of the money than to allow the expenses to go along with the growth of land production?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u48	Mr. President. Of course, we need to think about the cost. In the years to come, I think we have a very special need to look at these matters in a somewhat new way because we are demographics changing as a nation, where the percentage of the elderly is increasing. That in itself must mean that we cannot use the same formula that has been used in recent years. Then I think it's even more important to think about how we raise money in a government fund. That's when I'm thinking of a maximum policy. The government has made a market for relief by making a sale of money for fishing costs and by dropping taxes on high - paying employees. [[The president calls.]] A similar view is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u49	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place on this subject. That's a lot of money. A national budget suggests that policy is being proposed for the next year in the way of income and expenses should develop. In view of this, I feel that it is an insurmountable holed document, a very large number of factors are put here, which, instead of leaving answers to fundamental questions, rather than to wake up. I would have wanted at least a more serious committee party to take it better and fill it a little better than it was done. Therefore, I direct people to read the Committee's opinion of my share of the legal committee that they were aware of. The members of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir offer because these are the key questions that arise when reading this national budget is coming forward and trying to approach them with some kind of reply that will make the matter worse in my opinion. I am very happy that men have finally submitted this national budget, although, of course, one would have wanted to see it done on the first and second, that it would also have been a more full form that we had got out of this financial program. But that's how it is, and I thank them again for the minor opinion that we have here because it makes me feel that I'm very comfortable with the basic opinions involved. To begin with, I would like to mention that I find it difficult to understand some of the points presented here, such as the way in which people envision their spending development. When a man reviews the table over this four year period for how to develop, the total cost between 2016 and 2017 should only be increased by 1.2%. However, the chapter on page contains a text. 35 on the budget in those years, 2016-52019, discussed the criteria behind this strategy. In this time period, inflation is expected to occur in a range of 2.53/4.7%. It is also assumed that a further 2% inflation will be paid for the financial gain of public workers, i.e. above, this 2.53/4.2.7%. It also discusses the increase in social security by 1% over inflation, as shown on page 12. 36 that most government business groups, administrative and surveillance agencies, etc. are generally expected to have 1% actual real-life potential. It does not constitute a 1.2% increase in expenses compared with all the increases mentioned here. It's supposed to be cut down somewhere. In this national budget, we need answers to the question of where to cut down. The figures here are making a considerable amount of cuts, but there is no record of where it should take place. I would've liked men to try to paint a rough picture of where to cut down for this so that the fee line could stand. Otherwise, I think it's better at home than it did, and I think we should take a financial plan when we put it here more seriously than we should. Well, maybe someone who's representing the greater part could explain this to me, but considering what this program says, it doesn't make sense, i.e. that there may be an increase in expenses. Anti-inflammatory effects are expected; however, growth is only 1.2% between these years. It is higher between the ages of two, but it does not seem to be as low as it really is, and also because it is assumed to be a 1% requirement of maintenance, but it still doesn't get into the obvious differences. I'd appreciate it if someone could answer me where this government is going to cut between 2016 and 2017. I also agree with the criticism shown by a smaller section of the financial committee, criticism that there is no clear policy of causes of acidification. It is also reflected in this criticism that I am stating that men should not tell us where to cut down. Then I don't know what we're really dealing with here. It's some kind of frame, but there's no point in it. Yet, there are some factors that we find that show that humans are not going to act or not. The smaller portion of it goes well in the minority of its members, such as in pensional commitments, shows that it is not clear according to this plan whether the goal is to pay them off or to finance them by borrowing them. These pension bonds are largely unfashionable. What also implies is that we are now experiencing a huge debate in a workforce that has gone on and on and on, and that applies especially to government employees who are truly left behind in the salary development of the past few years and who rightly claim to make adjustments in their terms. This is especially true of the great uniform classes of women. This figure assumes that there will only be a 2% increase in the year beyond the level of inflation of the premium of public employees. It can be assumed that this will be higher, and people are back in that they should cut down somewhere else. Where, then, is it best to do so? There are so many things here that help us see that there's supposed to be a cut, but we don't get to know where. It is only natural that we need to be concerned about major issues, such as the health system and the idea of a return to a higher level of charges. This is a sad situation because, at the same time as they proclaim in this considerable loss of government spending, people have given up money on wealth taxes and fishing costs, as was well considered here. The latest thing is, you're going to give up your income from an electric tax. I think this is wrong priorities, and we as officers are hurt this because we now feel that there's a huge and powerful reason to go into important structure of the policy of the welfare and education system, and we're also talking about transportation. Then we come to what I'm also concerned about, and we're even more concerned about. The smaller parts are fine about it in their committee program, that only about 1.2% of GDP is expected to go on investments according to this schedule. It's too low. This is illustrated in the committee's list of my section's investments, i.e. Also, rural society, it is absolutely clear that it is not enough to renew and sustain the infrastructure and other valuables that we have built up throughout the ages. If we are not able to renew and maintain it by means of these funds, we too will not be able to take on any new activity. As a result, we will see a dramatic decline in the infrastructure in the coming years if people intend to stick to this strategy. I believe there are men in the wrong direction. The money they've been giving off so far should have been kept up until the last two years. I assume that if voters were asked, they'd rather see these funds in the health system, the structure of the transport system, and the education system. Strong transport serves the best, most powerful health systems, the most powerful and accessible educational systems with low costs benefit the lowest income. The focus of this government has been to turn down the budget on the most successful, and we see the results of that in this national budget. A respectable president. Then I have to say, it grieves me and us that it's quite clear that the problem in the health system is also being pushed ahead of us. For more than a decade now, it has been said that there will be a time in the buildings and housing of the Land Hospital, and we have arrived at that time. There's mold, the house's leaking, and there's no way people can apply the latest tools and tools in a hospital because the building is not suitable. She's a child of her time. This is not expected to be an attack on this building in the coming years. It is overemphasized. It is expected to complete the construction of a medical hotel, complete the complete design of the treatment core, etc. In my opinion, it's not satisfactory. I don't think it's a good idea to go in such a slow process and push this hospital building ahead because we're in a critical period right now. How do people think they'll be here in five years? It'll be even worse then, and then it'll take time to build it up too. I am concerned about our health care system now as we see that because people have not been prepared to converse with nurses, radiologists, and others within the BHM, we are seeing reports of large groups within the medical system. With them is knowledge and experience, and I am afraid that we are now involved in a spiral, where we will see a very rapid decline in the whole health system. Our staff, on a global scale, does not have equipped equipment and facilities to do their best, and there is an unacceptable social situation like ours. I would suggest that we now try to achieve a solidarity over the transnational health system and find ways to build it up. I hope that people are ready for it on the part of the government, but that means we can't apply this budget for the next four years, but we're going to have to make significant changes in it. In recent years, men may have to look to a means of financing that they have been getting rid of. In terms of the social security, I also find it very tragic to see here not to anticipate similar social security increases as expected by public employees to gain financial gain. It's important now that we see most of the country's groups working on dressbacks, and then it's our duty to make sure that those who have to rely on income from the public through the social security system get comparable increases. We cannot leave these groups behind, and they are in no way expected in this program. I'm sorry, and there's the government on the game, showing what they're going to do about their next losses. Accordingly, she does not intend to include these groups in her country's pay development. I'm sorry, and I promise that for that, we all of us officers will fight here at the next loss, we will continue to fight that these groups will receive the increases they need if they are to be able to live in our society with some dignity. Then I'm also going to mention that there are things here that sting into the eyes. One of the reasons in the income section of this program is to sell on banks. This suggests that a 30% share in the Lands Bank will be sold, if I recall correctly, and then in the leading list of parts, it says that in the plan, the cumulative interest rate of the state fund from a bank fell at the 2015 price is about 580 billion dollars. Therefore, it is urgent to sell stocks in financial companies and other partners, as well as not reimburse a portion of the debt-finished deposit but to reimburse other financial loans with more favorable interest than is now being done. This too is not clear. What is this about other societies, what exactly are they talking about? It is assumed that these holding parts of the Lands Bank will be sold this year and the next. Is there any evidence that this can be achieved? There's no word here about selling banks this year. The basics under this budget are so weak. I must also mention that there is no relationship with reality in this program. I'm surprised that the advance team recently concluded at its party council against the Lands Bank sale should place just as much emphasis on the fact that it is now necessary to do so this year or the next year to make money in the state's budget. I don't disagree with our objective, we have to reduce the interest rate of the state's budget, but people have to have some practical plans for when and how men can sell possessions for it. It also requires careful identification of the property involved. There are many questions I would rather ask than answer these questions, and I would like to visit a few pages. Thirty-four, the tax policy. It says, by permission of the president: The evaluation of the value of the tax system will also be continued with the objective of moving the system into simpler and more modern values and strengthening it as a income source. Icelandic, i.e. Enrolled to the extent that the government groups have conducted their tax policy, this means that people are going to increase the tax tax rate more and likely make one tax step, reducing the higher level and increasing the lower level considerably. Here again, the difference between the policy of this government and the policy that we equal to it would like to follow, namely, that there are reductions or taxes on those with the highest income, while taxes are raised on those who spend most of their income paying for necessities. I must say, this is not good news to me. We match-ups will strongly protest this, as does other factors involving the addition of a penalty to those with the lowest income and middle income groups to facilitate tax declines and to reduce the burden on those with the highest income. This is it, and if you read this national budget, you can see the policy very well. A respectable president. I can't go over everything right now, but maybe I'll do it later. It is well stated in the minority opinion of the budget board of members of this government because there is no evidence to support the bills as the highest level. Ministers of society and housing have announced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u50	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir said that we should take the budget seriously, and I agree with it. At the same time, she posed a very important question, in my opinion, about where the highest place is. Government's gonna cut down. There has been little need for senators during the discussion to answer the questions of members of the Parliament, with the exception. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, who has had a strong answer. There's something we can do to try to read the future, so I'd like to ask why. A senator in line with what is being proclaimed in this program: Where do you think so? A senator will likely be cut down?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u51	A respectable president. On the basis of what is presented here, significant cuts are being proclaimed. When significant cuts take place, people must look into the largest budget teams, and I fear that they will be looking there at the welfare and education system. It has just been said that a person will make changes in the education system that will lead to lower costs. So I disagree, so we equals, too, have disagreed because we do not feel that it should be attended at this point. The figures of cutbacks between 2016 and 2017 tell us that we should be really concerned about this. This government has also undergone a major increase in health - care costs, and you obviously fear that it will continue to do so. There's more to it than that. If we're going to cut much down, we can't stop doing something about the welfare system, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u52	Madam President. I agree with that, and I couldn't agree with that. Senator, I'm just worried that we should cut down here in the welfare system. But just because I agree with that, too. A senator in which we should take this plan seriously, I would like to ask him why. A senator's point is that, as you can read, the less you feel. The budget is based on the lack of influence on the position of the crown, and it is expected to have no effect on the debt status or financial balance of the state fund. This proposal was submitted April 1st. but this morning a new prime launch was being introduced. Counts 'em out. A senator in view of this new position, however, where we see something on the cards and what may be expected, is not right. In view of this, does a judicial committee call the Synod resolution to them and reexamine them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u53	A respectable president. We're in the second round. As to the decree of the council, this is the final discussion. I thought it normal that the discussion would be interrupted, referred to the proposal back to the committee, and covered it there to review the impact of the action presented this morning, in order to also review the impact of newly developed agreements and other factors. I don't think it's good that we accept a government budget when we know that so many things in the environment have changed since it's been submitted and that it doesn't have much to do with reality. Many of the things are also tore up in my committee party, and I wanted more of the committee to have listened more carefully to what it says. Then there's what's going to happen. A senator also brings up the matter. I thought it was normal because it's a lot happier for people to start off with an agreed head-of-the-art budget that's in some way with what's really happening and it's predictable that will happen in the years to come. We have considerable information that we can draw from. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u54	Madam President. I can't resist a wish. A senator and me here and others in the House, congratulations by the day. I'm not referring to a plan for reimbursement of currency but to projects at Húsavík and in Southern Germany. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is not far away from the subject of this proposal. These great projects and activities certainly have positive financial benefits. Hv. The senator mentioned how to meet the cuts announced in this weakness proposal. How should one meet a minimum of one percent requirement at the Ministry if the pay rate of public employees is out of the question? And what if there are now 20 billion expenses and loss of income for the state in terms of collective agreements? It's a pretty loose end, and you wonder if it's not useless to accept this proposal now. Is it not advisable to just wait for a fall bill to suggest that a year meets the requirement to expand the box? [[The president calls.]] The big question is: Should the Council spend more time on this proposal that is already meaningless?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u55	A respectable president. Like what? I'm glad a senator's off to the north. It is a real cause for rejoicing, not just for that area, but for all the land, that it has set in motion such a powerful investment. We could use some. Many have found this to be true, and much work is behind them. Hv. A senator asks about the very core of the matter, and then you wonder about the purpose of such an arrangement. The purpose must be that it be used as a reference to the budget in the years to come. Given what we have in our hands, compared to the criticism from the lesser part of the section that touches it on all the available items, plus the factors mentioned here, i.e. I am completely aware that this document will not be referenceed in the coming years. It cannot be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u56	Madam President. Of course, the real issue should be to see for yourself, calling it back at the start of the case. This was the delay of the budget and the approval of the proposal, even though much has taken place since its arrival and more is in store. On Wednesday, we have a visit to the Federal Bank on the Day of Maturity. Most investigators calculate a 50-point increase in growth. It will immediately affect the government budget if it exceeds the interest level, at least A short time. Then, if the wonders and wonders of execution take place, or rather, between contracts that the state can make a significant decline in its commitments and that at less interest costs in the coming years, all of us will be happy to do so, and in turn, we will be happy to do so. It's kind of a flight around this case, and there's gotta be a very persistent question why the handlers of the case don't simply call the proposal back and admit that it's useless to take care of it the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u57	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. It is not only that some have occurred since the proposal was proposed and taken out of the committee but also, in the leading of the minority section, are made up of very detailed comments. It was quite clear that there was uncertainty. Based on this uncertainty, one person should have examined this subject further and should have answered at least the questions presented in the context of the memory section. This is not done, and today we are even farther away from reality with the changes that have occurred in the last days and are facing the loss to come. I also reviewed in my speech that I do not realize where people are going to cut down on what is being proclaimed. The increase in budgets of 1.2% between 2016 and 2017 does not match what is expressed in the text of the anti-inflammatory effect and an increase in income within certain categories, increases in financial resources in public employees and in public security. This would only help if a person is undergoing a very large cut - down operation, and nothing is discussed here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u58	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask took me off, but I'd better do it too, to congratulate us truly on the stage that is now starting with Bakka in Húsavík, which is just as much for the whole country as it is. I then use this opportunity to thank him for his contribution at his time when he sat in the government and did what had to be done to bring it forward. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir got the question where to cut down. It is best for me to use this opportunity, and to ask the senator, provided that men will cut down: where shall the senator cut down?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u59	A respectable president. I believe we've reached the bone. We have talked about a completely different course than the one that has been fired for the past two years, and it has led to the need for humans to start cutting down. Again, I'd like to say that we had to go very far to close 218 billion holes in our last terms. I wouldn't have given up my money on the wealth tax of over 10 billion. I wouldn't stop the electric tax. I wouldn't have dropped the hunting fees either. We as officers have spoken about this money at the government fund, we could engage in transport projects, we could go on improving the welfare system, and we could attack basic educational and health projects. For that direction, I've spoken, and I'm sorry that this government is running an operation here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u60	Madam President. I'll paraphrase the question, provided there is a need to save, where would the senator save? In the context of the memory of the object that I quickly glanced over, you can read in a certain way that it should be given quite a bit. All of us know the discussion of surgery, for it has truly been since collapse, and it had to be handled. Even though humans are equal, the debate over financial matters and financial matters in general still needs to be rational. We do not necessarily need to call a man to save or to adjust, but where would the senator put his priorities?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u61	A respectable president. The interests of the state's funds have greatly improved. Here, a considerable amount of space arose right in 2013 to place money in the most needed lawsuits. They decided to use that amount of space to bring money to those most of them by giving off income stocks, such as resource taxes, fishing costs, etc. Since we would never have used this means that we would be showing off the cards in what way we would have used this budget that was created in the state, and it is anticipated that it will be more because we will start paying off debt and have more tables for it because we are paying too much interest today. It is also anticipated that if economic forecasts go on, there will be even more space. We would have used this entirely differently than to reduce the amount of curses we have on them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for an excellent speech. She found a government budget that we're discussing here for the first time and was put in line with the Congress most for premeditation, I'd count it, and set in on state expenses, where we were going to save money. It is not taken in this national budget program that there are main lines and the economic exchange of government spending. Hv. A senator came across the importance of paying off debts and lowering interest loads, and that is what we are at the same time. A senator completely agreed. I'd like to ask a previous year how she feels about the plans to sell stock in financial companies, if that's not something that's wrong. A senator cheers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I didn't feel this all the time, but it's only natural for you to draw out the things that are most critical. What I find in the big picture is that the film is so broken and the foundation under it is as weak as it really is. With regard to bank sales taking part in Arion Bank as well as in Iceland Bank, and I haven't seen anything against the fact that we were going to sell these things in time. I'm not going to rule out that someday in the right setting, it's normal to sell a share at the Bank of Lands, but it must always make sure that the state has more share. At least that's my opinion today, but it's not in stone. Then I'd like to mention, though, that what I think in this program about bank sales is the timing, the time for people to do it this year and the next. [[The president calls.]] It's what it is. A senator that can really be true?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is clear. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees on the need to sell these things with the intention of removing the debt of the state. Timing is vital and impossible for us here to decide on. In the meantime, they can be given the highest value for things, so hopefully these institutions will make money so that we can continue to use them to pay off the debt of the state. The other part points to page 18. 3 in her opinion and suggest that from time to time, there will be a step further change in the budget and not only a economic change, but also a change to each Ministry. That's what we're doing. A senator agrees that it is necessary in the future. I don't have a special question for a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u65	A respectable president. You see, the timing is the absolute key as well as the situation, and I think that the state-of-the-art plan is to make a direct decision, and it's given in the Commission's list of parts, that they have to go about selling property shares in finance and other partners in an effort to reduce the debt of state funds. I'm afraid that when men walk so steeply and put in the plan that this is supposed to happen this year or because the next person doesn't see how it's done under the best possible circumstances. I don't think that the best possible situation is this year, and I guess it's not close enough that there's just too much uncertainty in the economy. While we receive as much money as we do, as from the Bank of the Lands, I think it is a mistake to plan on selling these assets. In this respect, I think there is another giant hole involved in this national financial program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u66	President. I think it is proper to draw the attention of the president and the United States to see that in discussions on this matter two or three times how difficult it is to discuss this strategy, which was submitted on April 1 after all the changes that have occurred on its terms, this morning, when there are a number of changes on account of this plan, far ahead of time, and are added to the uncertainty involved, and, of course, there must be some factors. I call attention to this because of the importance of this discussion for the first time at the council for a proposal presented in this subject and how important it is that it is important for humans to discuss it properly and to present their political views on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u67	President. I'll be very impressed with what I'm saying. Árnason Mörður is important that we now, for the first time, we discuss this national budget, even though it is not as perfect and as detailed as we would have chosen, it is important that we show respect for the discussion and the work. Therefore, I feel that those responsible for this work should be put forward and considered in their hand that it is best for the committee to call the matter in to them and especially after the great news that this morning may be possible, if everything goes the best way, that interest might be reduced. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the principal users of this proposal do not resist.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u68	A respectable president. I haven't seen here, at least. Not since I've been here, but not since I've been here. Fundament committee in the hall. It would be important for her officers to come here and review with us why we should not take the initiative back into the committee and review the transitions that have taken place both in the labour market and in the process of swelling and in the development of the committee. It changed everything, and it was now pierced. Now we're about to accept some government budget that's not in any way involved with any reality out there. I have to say, if we did, I'd be embarrassed before the council. We are willing to handle this matter in a way that we try to update it and bring it to reality. I think the committee leaders should come here and tell us how they feel about accepting a pact that obviously won't be followed because it doesn't. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u69	Madam President. It is only natural for members of Parliament to consider the value of a synonym, which is the way it is, the one we are discussing here. In case of a moment. Councilmen are going to propose to the chairman of the budget to remain unconvinced, what value is it when a council is approved to commit government and financial and economic ministers to comply with the figures and grounds in the Senate resolutions and we know that it will not be successful? Both the cost - making and the tax changes that are largely in the budget and then the emissions are not needed. This is a plan for 2019, and we clearly need to know the value of accepting a conquistador proposal that we know will not work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u70	A respectable president. I agree with what was said here last time. The only thing about taking the case back over the reasons is that I think it's very important. Although this is a strategy, it does not change that here is a policy factor that needs to be covered. Of course, the first time you're making such an effort, it's not over yet, it's late, it's starting in June, so it's obvious that you're going through a tighter pace in the way you're going. I think it would be wise for us to take the action, the suggestions presented here this morning, and the effects of them, but as well as the announcements of the government's entry into agreements. They changed the case as soon as I think the government groups must understand what they're about to accept. Although a plan is just a plan, not something that cannot be changed, here it is completely broken on what it is based. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u71	Madam President. I was beginning to wonder, like others, at where the leading legal committee was. Hv. paritaprevir In any case, Vigdís Hauksdóttir isn't here and I've taken in a replacement, and I was going to say that I didn't know where we were if it wasn't for trouble. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, who has been with us in this discussion by individual conscientiousness, but then, of course, he joined the hall. paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson, vice president of the budget board, a huge one, prayed for the word, and is well. However, I think it would have to be discussed primarily with the minister of finance itself, who is now at the moment of the motion whether he would want the Council to spend time discussing this matter in the light of all that is available today. It is clear that the basis for the proposal is largely sunk. This year, the government has already approved 2.65 billion for various expenditures. It's going to be a significant turnaround for the next year's budget because of government commitments to collective agreements and then it's all the rest that's been going on over the past few days, maybe interest resolution on Wednesday, etc. [[The president calls.]] I think it's kind of funny to continue the discussion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u72	Madam President. What is lacking in this discussion is expected to be paid off by a huge amount of interest - bearing debt from the income that will flow into a government fund over the next few years because of the tax stability. In fact, it is the joyous news of that day. There is, however, no requirement. A senator and the chairman of the legal committee will come and explain to us that she is abroad, but then she will be so caught up in the hunt that another genius from a budget board, er. paritaprevir The Gullful Þórðarson, who has come here almost like a rescue knight on a white horse, will undoubtedly use his second talk to explain this, and that will pay for the discussion. I say to my hat that I'm going to wait to insist that the matter be settled on the committee until it is established. The vice president of the budget has this information, but I expect him to have made a sound in order to explain this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u73	A respectable president. Of course, I'm no more here than anybody else talking about the President's conference board. This team has been abused in this way, but now it's all beginners at a council like this. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who has complained that there is no leading member of the committee. I've been at the council as people know, and I've been greeting some of you, sitting in the side room, and following the talks. I listened to a good answer from what I heard. paritaprevir A Bogi to Hafliðason, who I thought was just fine, and I brought some interesting, good questions. Senator. I don't know what to say. There's two ways to do this. [[Up front.]] On the one hand, people can only note who are at the Assembly Hall and see if they are. [[Up front.]] Well, up to now there has not been a requirement for members of the Assembly Hall. [[Up front.]] It is only natural for a person to observe the discussion. That's what I've done. I'm on the rosary, and I'm going to be an active part of this. [[The president calls.]] You don't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u74	President. Sadly, the problem failed. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson hopes that conditions would be clearer according to his speech. I think it's about the improvements in terms of government that started naturally and seriously after a collapse during the last term with the support of the entire body of Congress then and its extension support now. Should they end up making this important part of the reform work for the sake of the form, to be thrown to him, and approved to fill in form, or should this be a real part of these improvements in terms of government, which all the classes come to, and that the people in Iceland really want to be? That's what it's all about, and if the plan is to be serious, this must go back into the committee or to postpone it until autumn. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u75	A respectable president. I needed to be told twice as soon as I learned that even after the event of the day, the government's share would want to keep this matter on schedule and try to have it taken care of as it did. That is, at best, completely preposterous, on the basis of the national budget. You're right. paritaprevir Mörður the Árnason's half past. The budget is designed to shed light on what lies ahead in the government business. She's not just a punt, and I'm obviously worried about it if more of the money committees get involved with the rule-making thing so just out of form alone. How, then, will more of the legal committee handle the official financial bill as well as the law in time? Will it be a mere formality too? Will nothing really need a material meaning for the council's decisions there, either? It's totally absurd to accept a government budget that doesn't go through. It does not work out according to the criteria we know today and naturally that it will be called back, and its new publication will be introduced into the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u76	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think, instead of completing a discussion about this proposal, let alone agree with it, it would be normal for a financial committee to get that assignment and actually go on a project that should be started there, to go over the terms of the state's budget for declarations of collective agreements, not to mention a plan for the disposal of capital burglaries. It's only natural that in the discussion of the bills on emissions of capitalists that will contribute to this, we have a clearer picture of the impact on the state's budget. This arrangement is of no value to the council because it is the basis for all the smiles presented in it. As planned, the plan should be addressed. You can't suggest that you accept a conclusion that everyone knows is out of existence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u77	Madam President. Here's a debate over a proposal for a hearing on the terms of the holding of the budget, 2016,2019. I've been sitting in the councilroom for a while, and I've enjoyed it quite a while. There were not many in the hall when the discussion took place, and I want to draw the attention of the president that as soon as discussions of the President's meeting regime began to increase by more than half in the hall. [[Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!]] Yes, it was that way, in this room, more than half of the members of the council increased when discussions about the President's conference regime began, not when the plan was discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u78	What do you read about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u79	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Gudgle of Þórðarson came here a little skin year for asking where the officers of the Committee were. If he had heard what I said earlier, he would have heard that I wasn't calling for him just to have him in the hall something to dangle him. It was all right with me because he was sitting inside the dining hall and listening to the discussion there. However, I was asking him specific questions on this matter and wanting him to answer them. Does he really think that we will continue with this issue without being accepted into the committee, updated, and examined the obvious gaps in it, adding to the fact that the matter was taken out of the committee? Should not men at least try to update the matter? It is clear that this government can never follow it. It's not a theoretical possibility. So you wonder why we're doing this. Wants what? paritaprevir Gullful Þór Þórðarson, whom I know he wants to do well. The members of the board are saying that cases are accepted, although they are completely inaccessible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u80	Madam President. This case was not sent to the commission, I can't see it. There were no reviews, and they say no. This was discussed three times in the Committee itself, and part of the process was to decide that the matter would be taken out in one meeting. It was taken out at one meeting, and then there are three left, and in the beginning, it was only discussed. There was a meeting where professionals came, no. Two in which the matter was discussed. On the one hand, there was a government Accounting and, on the other, the Organization, which studied the case. That's all there was to it, that's all that was discussed, that wasn't sent to professionals, and so on. One factor is that there are certain uncertainty factors, including About the standing state guarantees of an apartment loan fund. Now there is a huge case that will be prepared for the Supreme Court at some point in the fall, not on whether the insurance is legal, but whether it is legal. If it isn't, 300 billion sodas from an apartment loan fund can enter a state fund of 13 billion dollars. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, If we are going to have a budget program that we will be able to take seriously, we need to get the opinion of these individuals as to what is likely to be the outcome. [[The president calls.]] It's just saying that we're not sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u81	A respectable president. The day's office is with the President of the Generals. The program is essential for all other Presidential conference directors. Therefore, it is not unusual to discuss the program under the program for the chairmanship of the president. I'd like to express my frustration with the adulation. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Thor Þórðarson's son in this discussion. I was going to prove I didn't think he'd come here when we're talking about this case with this kind of kid or I don't know what to call it. I'm very serious when I say that I find it disrespectful to discuss it when the circumstances have changed, as they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u82	Mr. President. The magnetic volume of this hall has increased rapidly. paritaprevir Since the Bogi of Hafliðason sat here, he does not need to be surprised if people come in here when there is a chance that he might speak again. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The other is proved to be that the events that took place today have changed. This suggestion simply does not work for that reality; it needs change. Its influence must be considered, and two members are available to explain it before the council, either at the highest level. Secretary of finance or the head of the budget board. You ask yourself, " I think you are. ' paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson that he is the vice president of the budget board? Isn't it his job to come here and explain this to us? In case of a moment. A senator cannot take the matter into a committee and examine it there. But I expect it to be. paritaprevir Gulliful Þór Þórðarson solves this case simply by putting himself on the rosary [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u83	I'm on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u84	... andexplainit..for the Reich of Congress. [[The point is, he's on the rosary.]] Then I'll challenge the highest. President, to pay for Congress, to let go. A vice president more in line. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u85	Madam President. Most of the cases are where you want to see a purpose in discussing them. This budget is a very good document to look ahead and to see what the government intends to do in society. You can't see the purpose of it if the premise has been changed since it was submitted first. There must be some point in itself and purpose in the end. My parents are smiling. I think it is normal for the vice president of the budget to consider the situation, take the case, and look into a committee, for there are, of course, major factors, such as the disposal of currency stores, collective contracts, where the government has played out large sums of money to help with collective agreements and other factors that result in a failure in this matter. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson should take his position as the chairman of a legal committee in the absence of the Chairman. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u86	Madam President. I think there is also a problem with the council and the government if this council proposal is accepted as unchanged because it includes the following: The General concluded that the government will comply with national financial policies prior to 2016 and 2020, according to the following overview of the proposed development and debt development, which will establish a government revenue and primary budgetisation for the 2016 budget and the next three years, based on the pre-sets established by the State budget. Why is the government bound if we have approved in this conference hall the criteria and the figures in the table? Can they choose? Is it the expense, or how is this to be, when we know that the underlying factors are so much changed even now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u87	V.E.G. President. We members of the Parliament are now studying the two prime cables submitted today as part of a budget plan for capital disposal. It's different, it's different, it's about changing financial law, but the other is about the bill for a stable tax law. It takes just a look at the information given to the financier to see that the impact of this on government funds and potential economic stability becomes considerable. It is proper to take the matter into consideration now and to give the legal committee an opportunity to find out more about it so that we can get a clear picture of it. We are familiar with the economic climate of the forward - looking class and the independent class of the past, and we do not want it to repeat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u88	Madam President. The conference at the Assembly Hall often involves discussing a subject on the program, followed by a conversation about the form of a conversation, of the meeting itself. That's normal. You will discuss the context of the part, whether there is any reason for this matter to be on the agenda, whether any conditions have changed, or conditions are different from when it was decided. It is the council's right to speak up at the end of the President's conference board, and the right to use. paritaprevir On average, Gudleful Þór Þórðarson sees over 20 times during the last term. I'm sure it was. It seems that the interest in this program has only diminished. A senator, now that he has become a respectable vice president of the budget board, remains that it is probably a matter of concern, there is nothing wrong with it, and we should stop having this facade that it is a bit unnatural to discuss the subject here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u89	Madam President. It is so natural that the matter is referred to already, as noted in the case of other members of Congress, the General shall conclude accordingly. The General concluded that governments are following government budget policies prior to 2016-52019 on the basis of the premium on which the budget is established, on the basis of this document. We all know that these criteria do not work out, so it's the most natural thing in the world that it's just included in the committee and we'll see how things develop after this correction project, etc. Let's have some visitors. There's nothing more natural than us getting visitors we didn't get, getting reviews we didn't get. This was not done, but there is nothing normal for good and responsible management when it comes to a financial programme. Is the Independence Party really going to have such a remnant when it comes to a national budget? She has a goal, by permission of the President: The aim of the State Policy is to promote economic stability and increase the economic production capacity of the economy as a result of continued improvement in the state management process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u90	President. I have to say, I think very much about the discussion being discussed here. In general, we are talking about our desire to ensure good and careful planning on the matter of Congress. Here we are, and I have not heard anyone contradicting, that the grounds have changed as far as this particular matter of Congress is concerned. Is there anyone who's going to contradict that? Gonna go for it. paritaprevir Hjálmar I going to have to argue with Bogi Hafliðason? Will Gudleful Þórðarson object? Is there anybody else here from the board? No, most of the time, there are few here from the board. Is it good for us to associate with the council with the laxness of our not feeling that things are as well prepared as possible? It's the highest kind of work. Governments and government groups want to promote? I didn't think so. Is there anyone who would object that this is a completely altered basis and an enormous impact on a wealth of money? If anyone wants to object, I'd like to hear it, but as long as that statement is in the air, the matter must be taken on the agenda and back into the committee. [[The president calls.]] But not what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u91	Madam President. I'd like to guess before I start saying anything. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Þórðarson to come in before me in a speech to address the viewpoints of the vice president of the legal committee, just so they know, but he did not accept it. He's on the rosary, but I guess he won't find out with his speech until tomorrow if he didn't want to take my place. But what I would like to do now as a subject of my second speech, since there may be more of them, is the policy on tax issues to be considered on page 6. The 34 and 35th budget, and if time is won, I want to talk only about the criteria and criteria of a budget. In terms of tax policy, to begin with, customs on various products are expected to be reviewed as a decomposition. It does not say any more, but it has been said that clothing and shoes, which are all good and blessed, but first of all, it is not outlined in the budget how this will affect the income of the state's budget. It is also not considered how this will affect the currency position if this increases the import of the product and is not designed to assess the effect of the reduction. Second, insurance bills will be dropped annually for the next four years. This is immediately out, such as so many others for this government budget because with the government's declaration of arrangements to pay for a collective agreement, the fees are canceled. At the last budget, the government, as the president of the United States, decided to enter an agreement on the low-energy burden of pensions and remove it. The declaration of a collective agreement is now stated that the government will continue to pay the high - energy price of pensions, but instead, they will not reduce their insurance fees. Thus, this requirement is passed on by the government budget. I would have found it more reasonable to lower the insurance fee, which uses all companies in the country and is a fee taken for every job, and to put it on the staff in the form of a pay raise rather than wait on a reduction in the insurance bill. Of course, it was seen that the government had to deal with the agreement of paying on the equal burden of pensions, but it's as if the two people surprised me. Third, a review of vehicle taxation and fuel is expected to reduce the number of accessories starting in 2016. It is then considered only at the end and said that it is done to create equals in taxation, environmental protection, and the simple tax system. I guess there's some money in the area where there's a drop in reserves, and I wonder if they're taking over the favors that have been paid by environmentally friendly cars, I don't know, that's not the answer to the budget. Of course, this is a matter of careful consideration and is not made up of which income will be donated. A review of the evaluation of the valuable tax system is then referred to in order to support it as a revenue tool and is expected, according to the plan, that the review of these factors results in changes in the law and regulations on the level of extra taxes on the next loss. There you must assume that some income will accompany it to a government fund because it is meant to strengthen the value of the tax system as a revenue tool, but it is not over what it is to be done. You're talking about one valuable tax system? What changes are we talking about? It wasn't listed, but there's a way to figure out what to do. It is then stated in this program, which is as inaccurate in this respect as I am going over here by permission of a president: In addition, preparation of the next step in the process starting in 2014 will continue to simplify and reduce income taxation by decreasing the range between the lowest tax steps with the final objective of adding them to one step. This procedure is thought to be an important factor in simplifying the tax system, improving its effectiveness, and providing additional resources for people. Of course, this is the policy of the government set out in the budget but is also one of the government's means of paying for collective agreements. I don't know how the conversation went, but it seems that there was a tax policy on the right of the board with the collective agreements. Of course, this change involves a group, and that group certainly deserves it, but other groups are left out when the tax system is being simplified. By permission of the President, the government's declaration of arrangements to pay for the preparation of collective agreements: The estimated amount of money spent in the state's budget due to the above decisions is about Ninety-nine-one-one-one thousand. when the changes are fully implemented In fact, there is again talk about the insurance bill because, as had been considered, it is not expected that there will be room for spending. The guarantee price is mentioned again when it comes to the equality of the disability funds in a statement from the highest degree. Government. The tax change is spoken of here as costing 93/411 billion dollars. but the State budget says that the combined effect of what I listed is 2 billion over the next year and gradually up to 6 billion in 2019. Of course, it is difficult for us to discern what happens when we earn money and what we do not. But there's a difference between these numbers, and it's probably due to a change in the value tax system from the vehicle attractions, one in the plus and the other in the minus, so there's probably a difference between these revenues. But, of course, I'm guessing, because it's not part of the budget. This budget was submitted on April 1, with a clear objective of simplifying the tax system by reducing the paces of the tax system. I'm assuming the government budget went through the highest. A government and that it was approved before it arrived at the council. I also assume that she was approved by both members of the government. That's why I was very surprised at the answers to the highest. Prime Minister when he was asked out in the simplicity of the income tax system in unsupervised inquiry on May 15 of the past, and on whether the tax policy of the Independence Party was to be negotiated with unions. Then he said that it was from time to time, it was certainly not the role of this government to simplify the tax system, on the contrary, that it was being considered a step-by-step proposal. I could hardly believe my ears when they were the highest. The prime minister said this and wondered if the government's budget has not been carefully passed before it was approved in the government. But it may be at the top. The prime minister had simply forgotten that the budget has just been used to simplify the tax system by reducing the paces. This is also a review of the spending criteria and premiums. I've noticed that it seems as though it were at least two hours ago. Prosecutors have failed to realize that by agreeing to the budget plan, they first agree that there will be a difference between pay development and the development of those who need to rely on compensation, because on page 20. The budget of 35 speaks of a 2% increase in sales per year with government employees, while only 1% increase in financial resources are reported for those who have to rely on compensation. It's against the 69th grade. social security legislation where improvements are expected to be accompanied by pay development. We were discussing the value of this program in a discussion about the President's conference board earlier. I think it's a tough question if you ask me. Senators have agreed to violate other laws by this resolution. What does that mean? At least it makes me think about why. Council members who intend to propose to the chairman of the Board of Funds to accept this synonym unchanged, despite the criteria in the program and then change the criteria that have come up. This is not just a matter of coverage and assessment of large oceanographs missing in the budget but also of the highest level of housing rights. Secretary of society and housing. In fact, it is stated that they are not in this program, they may be in some of the tax changes, and large amounts change the results. Surely, then, there is reason to consider whether a committee needs to be reinstated. I think it's the highest. Financial and economic ministers will review this case tomorrow, but today, of course, he's busy explaining the break-in, I suppose. There's something else I'm not sure that was. The members of the board of directors realized, i.e. that it is very clear on page 22. Thirty - five on the pay policy of the programme, that if the level of money paid by a government worker exceeds 2% per year will be cut down. It is a message presented in a state-of-the-art dispute so that they get it only in the whites of a financial program, which is intended to agree unchanged to propose to the chairman of a legal committee, to achieve their betterment in terms of the loss of jobs. Of course, this means operating in the welfare system, for the larger groups are the groups that support health care and other important services. This process is being announced by collective agreements, proclaimed as an annual cut-off of 5.5 billion each year, and then we do not know how to improve social security, since, of course, people do not accept that it will cut apart by groups, it will cost a few billion more and then it will be expected to make housing projections and tax changes. Of course, income may be replaced, especially if we succeed in paying off the State debt on a large scale, which would be in the form of a lower interest. Of course, there are only speculations, and we do not see it in the budget how it feels to think that this document, although it contains much information, is very flawed. As I noted earlier, I have the highest tax policy information. Governments listed in the government budget, and it's good to weigh that information. Then other political groups can adapt it to their tax policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. We know that the economy began to be replaced in 2010 and that a positive balance was reached in 2013. This financial program proclaims a gradual recovery, some even quietness, and I would like to hear only from a former financial minister how we can be disciplined in government matters. How does he feel about this Kingdom plan as well as the possibility of future investments? It is said that they may be 1.2% of GDP. Is it sufficient to maintain a physical structure in the welfare system and in the interiors of society, the combination as is needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u93	Madam President. First, I would like to point out that on page 5. 18 The State budget is a very good picture with columns showing the contribution of the State Fund from 2005 to 2019. It has tall, high, plus columns, just before a crash, and then it goes deep below the minus. The results achieved during the last term are also seen in the fact that 216 billion dollars were closed. a hole that really is amazing. This picture illustrates how good it was that the right government did, so it is a natural disappointment as to how it works and how it works. In terms of government discipline, all we can do is watch our last budget bill. There was also a picture showing that there was no discipline before a crash. We received discipline during the last term, but we need to do more in order to become like the neighboring nations we want to compare with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. With the collective agreements and the tax policy of this government, I'd like to hear the attitude of this government. A senator to one. The right man's tax policy was a change in collective agreements, and it certainly affects the way this document is coming out, and each tax policy will lead us in the future. How do these primary costs, which are just investments in society's infrastructure, to transport programs, and to the compensations that we see in the groups that are trying to negotiate, and to vote for the elderly and the desperate? Is this really going to work together unless there's only a 2% increase in money that everyone has to accept?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u95	Madam President. I'll never be able to answer these questions in a minute, but I choose to talk about the tax policy. We officers would have wanted the income balance role of the tax system to have been strengthened rather than weakened, as the changes made by the right control. The intermediate group will benefit from the change made, but it would have been very useful to meet that group by maintaining the pace - change tax system. This could have extended the space between and move so that the exact same group would have been rewarded through the changes in income tax, but the equation would have stood and gained strength so that those with the highest salary pay would pay a fair share in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u96	A respectable president. Thank you for speaking anyway. A senator and would like to reflect on what has been discussed here that perhaps this plan is actually quite meaningless, so I speak mildly. I don't fully understand whether to take this as an initial attempt to make a financial plan, so I have to be very understanding that it's all a little hairy and maybe not detailed, or whether I should insist that there's a challenge here and that it's a good, thorough plan. In view of the fact that all factors are more or less smiling, is it possible for the senator to accept them back into a committee or simply demand to get a new detailed and careful plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u97	Madam President. There are a number of uncertaintys in the current budget, and it is discovered that something has happened in the two months since the plan was submitted so that there would be good reason for stopping the existing holes in the program. The plan is more like a policy plan with a budget bill. Then you can look up the budget and see how the policy is developed in numbers so that it lacks so much that it can be a solid support for discussion and approved for the government to follow up on making a financial bill. Actually, we would need a new plan that would be better worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u98	A respectable president. Actually, when we receive a new budget, we will receive a comparable document in the fall. Then there'll be some kind of updated version of this here. I wondered, " Is it the committee that's supposed to take it? Or should the Ministry of finance simply ask for a new updated plan in view of everything that has happened? ' Like what? There's a lot of doubt about it, there's the S-drugs and a lot more, and then there's on top of now income tax schemes and other things. It is also a question of whether emissions are not having any effect on the future now that humans have already put it on a course and whether this may result in reducing their interest costs faster than we thought they would.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u99	Madam President. I think there's every reason to take the case into the committee again, call it the highest. The secretary of finance to review with him how to remedy this strategy. I can't believe that more of the budget committee and the Supreme Court. The Secretary of Economics and Economics is, in effect, saying that such a piece of paper as it is now, will be accepted at the council with all these big questions running out. What should be our goal? What's being approved? Why is the government restricted when we know all these important uncertainties? Since there is hardly any number on the bill left, there is every reason to bring it in. I'm just not a trick at Congress to know who it is, if I can ask for it, and that it will be done. Mrs. President will have to explain to me later on how we can do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u100	Madam President. First, I'd like to draw it up, and I hope that people don't think I'm upset about it, after all about the President's meeting board earlier, there were more in the audience than under this matter we're discussing right now. I want to draw attention to it, and I hope it doesn't get taken up badly. On the other hand, I would like to use this opportunity to ask an ex - secretary of finance, Oddný Harðardóttir G.. I am freshly reminded of the last time I was in jail as the deputy body member of the council hearing called Acute community action because this is an investment in the future that it is clear that there is a great need for investments after a difficult year, etc., the existing need for a wide range of health care facilities, nursing homes, transportation and infrastructure services, so to mention, and I'd like to ask the senator if there's any cost assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u101	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's decline has been made. For a while, when the President's conference board was discussed, three were off. Generals in the hall, but now it's a real problem. Since only one member is left, the number of them has fallen, as is the case in the case of government opposition. Much investment is not expected, but we know that it is needed for investment, including investment. to build timbers in tourism. We know about applications up to 2 billion in the tourist industry fund. There could be something based on that strategy, but unfortunately, an investment index provided in this budget will not even be supported by subscriptions, so it will go on the inside. That's a serious thing and something we need to go over better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u102	Madam President. If the senator wants to play ball, there were 12 members of the U.S. government stand here at the end of a meeting with President, but now there are six. But it is true that I stand here alone--I know how to count, Mörður. þm. I'm going to use this opportunity again to ask the senator. [[Up front.]] There's no cost assessment in my opinion, and I'm going to use this opportunity, too, because I'm coming from the local government, saying I think the government could learn a lot from community management. Now, for a few years, my rural society has had to make a three - year plan, and I personally have participated in it, and they are making very regular changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u103	Madam President. Hv. A senator misses a financial plan under the smaller numbers of the section. What do you think? A senator, then, about the lack of cost estimates under numbers in the entire budget? But it's got the highest. Financial and economic ministers are filled with employees to cooperate and more than we need. Councilmen in my section of the budget. However, the cost of building hospitals, for example, has been convincingly identified. This is not expected in this national budget. There's a table above the bound agreement, but it's not said that it's going to the hospital, so I probably don't go to the treatment core until after 2020. I think that's very bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u104	President. This suggestion may be suggested that when you are adjourned, you see a certain political perspective on the State of the Extensions and the Independence Party out of it. One of them is that government wages do not increase more than 2%. It is a political prospect that can be faced with another political outlook, and it is not a matter of success. There might be a clearer frame around it. I don't think this should be the future, I don't think it's an independent political goal to increase pay, to increase financial resources, and to invest in society by, for example, nurses and hospital staff have a higher salary and last a better pay, and to make us more useful. It is only a minute, so it is only right to be content for a while, then a continuation later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u105	Madam President. I'd like to agree with an angry senator when he points out that political emphasis is quite clear in the document. Although financial support is not strong, the Polish lines are quite strong. It seems to me that when the tax changes were taken, the Independence Party won the prize, but that the forwarding party did, unless it was possible. Congress officials advance and the highest. Ministers, as if I studied in my speech earlier, have just not put themselves in the tax laws well enough. I felt that it was very clear on May 15 at the time of the Supreme Court. On the contrary, the prime minister totally denied that the tax system should be simplified.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u106	President. I appreciate that answer. The question to what? A senator and a former financier is, how do you understand the threat, or what it is now being said, in case it is now that the government's salary of over 2% is represented by the government that makes this claim is expected to be a bargain? Some are the government and government officials who negotiate, but the threat is that the increase beyond this, by permission of the President, would have to be done with the appropriate means of countermanding. Yes, we can say that. Of course, it has to be met with appropriate counter measures, such as contracting in the number of employees or on the job and the like, so that one party threatens the other person with measures that come down to the third party, if so, i.e. People in the country, those who have to use education, health services, and other aspects of welfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-08-124.u107	Madam President. This is a very clear message not only to those in need of the Kingdom service but also to those who maintain that service. If we looked at the health system, it was cut down before collapse. For example, the Landspians entered the collapse with 3 billion angles. Then we had to cut down on the health system. This could not be avoided during the last terms, but we had begun to give back. Of course, what we had done was to squeeze, put more effort on the staff, but we also said that we were going to give in so that it was a temporary situation. However, this has not been temporary. The budget says: "If you get even more money for the pressures you've been put on, we're going to put you under extra stress.
