ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Deputy Directorate of the Independence Party for 1st. Smoke. n., Illugi Gunnarsson, can't attend a conference next week. So today, at the World Council, the first deputy of the Independence Party is taking up residence in the district of India, the Ingibjörg of Óðinsdóttir. In the past, Ingibjörg of Odin's Óðinsdóttir has taken up residence at the General Assembly, and she is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u2	The president wants to report that a letter has been received from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a request for this request. 1210 on the civilised budget, from Birgitta Jónsdóttir. The President has also received a letter from the Department of Employment and Development that asks for every request to provide a written answer to a request for this request. $1,200, of arrangements for fund-to-do, from the Svandís's Svavarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u3	The president wants to announce that in a letter dated May 6, the president has requested this, according to the 8th count of 1 mg. 13th par. Parliaments, to the Commission and Control Committee that they are covering a report on the National Reconsistencies on the Marine Committee and the Commission on the import and export of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u4	To answer, Budget and Economic Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, and Marine and Agriculture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u5	A respectable president. The situation in the workplace has become very serious, and we all gain more anxiety from it day to day. We heard this weekend a rumor about the legal process of a strike, which is, of course, a ridiculous answer when the workforce is upset. There is widespread dissatisfaction with the division of the population and profit from common resources, and we simply need to adopt our administrations that enable us to import the Arctic welfare rather than look for people to move out. So I realize that after a thorough discussion over this at the council over the last few weeks that this matter has become very difficult for the government. I'm going to say for my part that I have no particular interest in continuing to beat it with iron or making it even harder for the government. I think it's getting important that we get together and try to support one another in reaching a good conclusion in this difficult situation. It is very important to look at them for three main factors, first of all. It must be restored, social housing must be built, tenants must be built, and tenants equal to those who live in their own housing. There are smudges of suggestions about how to do this, and the government has to act. Second, we need tax measures in order to balance our options. It's right in front of us. Third, we need a national campaign for competitive employment. We need to open our country and make good companies possible to grow and pay competitively. That's why I want to ask the highest. Budget and Economic Minister: Is he not willing to lie down in years and make it difficult to lay the groundwork for a solution that can help deal with the difficult issues in the current labour market? Is it not time to play games on the part of the government in this regard? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can guarantee our support in the Conspiracy with solutions to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u6	A respectable president. I welcome the positive tone I hear here for the first time for a pretty long time about bringing hands together to solve these matters. I mention, for example, that when we were losing taxes two years ago, it was always calculated as pizza slices and said it doesn't matter. But we are, of course, continuing to make changes, including the following: on the tax carts to support the continued cost of growth in the national labour sector, whether in public or in public markets. The situation at the moment is this: We have no direct access to the work community and ASI. There is no fixed requirement for certain activities between parties. I know of the classes mentioned here, such as the housing, and we've discussed raising rent payments. Department of Social Affairs has undergone this discussion. We've been discussing changes in the tax system, they're still on the agenda. But while these parties do not have common emphasis on discussions with the State, it is difficult to arise and take the initiative for some solution. The problem, for example, is that the employee movement has no common emphasis. These include either the increase in the lowest salary, or the salary status of education, or the need to reduce overtime and move to a day's work hours, or something else. For solutions based on the way of the Kingdom, people must agree on some basic emphasis. There is no need for the government to listen to demands, and we have had many meetings, and we continue to hold such meetings apart from having direct discussions with those who are now in public strike operations. It sure is. It's like a rough one. A senator noted, a reason to be deeply concerned about the type of wrongdoing involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u7	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before, we in the United States, and I think I can speak for all the government opposition, are ready to perform this project with the government, but I feel that they need some other government input, but a description like the Supreme One. A minister gave it to you in this case like an observer. Of course, he is involved in solving it. If he is concerned that the labor movement and the labor organization will break into pieces, he will be able to set up suggestions that can draw everyone to the table. They lie in the litigation categories I used, and especially in the housing. That is no new truth. We've been over this for years. It takes fundamental changes, especially in the housing. They'll cost money. And the highest. The secretary of finance is now in his hands. I reiterate the encouragement to him. It will not stand in the opposition to government in presenting reasonable solutions. All I'm worried about is that the government doesn't have the opportunity to get it up to get it done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u8	Mr. President. It is clear to everyone that unions come on their own terms to the negotiation table at this time. And they don't have any direct discussion with the state in any case, they're having business talks. Their entire organization has not been authorized to conduct their talks. It is simply not right that all these groups should have the basic need to provide for housing. In this regard, we need to use the tax system rather to equalize it. Let me draw out a few facts about the tax system. The government has no income tax until wages reach 240, no income. [[Up front.]] There's nothing to contribute to the income tax until there's pay. Second of all. The first five tenants will return no income to the State if interest rates and child - making are taken into account. Nobody takes. We already have a system, one on the other, income tax system and, on the other, a reform system, specifically targeted at those in the five lower income strengths, up to the fifth of the ten. [[The president calls.]] If we're going a lot further than this, we're calling for more perimeter taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u9	A respectable president. I want to keep talking about the chicken business. Everyone sees how serious the situation is, and I disagree completely because the government does not have rich responsibilities to prevent such conditions from forming in a labour market. I think there's a surrogacy for a government when a country, a prosperous society like us, is in place that it's almost a global strike in this country, a crisis of employment markets. It is a special solution, a specific question of how to manage a country so that it can go into this ditch. One thing that has been maintained during the discussion is trust, and I listened to an interview with one of the candidates of the employee movement for a weekend when he said that one reason why this was happening was because there was no trust in the government or the government, that there had been a promise of fraud, that contracts had been betrayed, and therefore it is not possible to use the power of the government to solve these issues. One example that has been mentioned in this is the government's income video worm for Christmas, where changes were made, completely unprecedented, of the unemployment insurance system without consulting the employee movement. The changes in the pension system were made without consulting the employee movement and so on. Many examples can be attributed only to the bill on a variety of changes and all kinds of styles in dealing with the work market from what we have seen. This was taken up in this interview. I'd like to ask the highest question. Financial Minister: Does this lack of communication cost much? Are we not looking at the cost right now? [[The president calls.]] The government could have prevented this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u10	Mr. President. With regard to these two specific matters, which are referred to as a witness to the lack of communication, I'm just saying, "We have offered a talk on these matters. " We asked for a conversation about them. All that was rejected. On the contrary, they refused to have a conversation about changes in unemployment rates or a new arrangement regarding the involvement of the state in equal terms the disability burden of pension funds. It was not that the willingness to communicate on our part was simply not possible to get men to the table to talk to each other. With the government's responsibility for the situation, I'm just going to say in general that there are more than one responsible. I will not claim that the government, the individual ministers according to the circumstances, the one standing here, has no responsibility. Of course, that is not the case. However, there is something wrong with the labor movement being in a noncombatant war with the government, no matter who it is in the government. This was a perfect period of 2009 to 2013, with one continuous resolution in the labour market. The stability thing lived for only a few months, then it was all up and up the whole time. If we look over the stage, what is it that really matters to create a calm and basis for the making of collective agreements? It's important that inflation is low. Is she low? Yes, it is lower than it has been for decades. It is important that a person sees that he has the power to buy and that he sees that he has money. Last year and more, the level of money was increasing. Is it predicted that he will grow? Yes, it is predicted to grow by about 3% and every year. The way things are done is about what they do about what they do. Is there a lot of unemployment in Iceland? No, Europe's minimum unemployment is predicted in Iceland. These are just a few examples of some of the principles that you would have generally intended to make a difference so that you could get together in a job market. They're all there. Therefore, I say, we have in our hand to maintain this success, to maintain stability, to continue to save valuable things, to create jobs, but all of us must come together to do so. [[The president calls.]] They can't rest entirely in their arms on the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u11	A respectable president. No, it's not supposed to rest in the hands of the government, and I think it rests in the hands of all of us in this room. I'd like to say on behalf of Bear's future that we are very willing to do so, and I think it's long time to come into cooperation with the government on how we're going to sort things out in the labour market, for example, it's long time in real life that, for example. The officers now sit down and review these matters, reviewing what the government can do. My thoughts earlier were about a point that I find very serious. There is much talk about little trust in the community. When employees of the employee movement say that they have actually decribated the state as part of a workforce releaser, I find it very serious. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance and reiterate my question: How does he feel about these views? Will he be involved in a solid government for the public? And there are ways of doing things like, e.g. in the income bill, did this trust go down? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How, and that is a key question, should we build trust? Maybe we should do it together?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u12	Mr. President. Yes, there is an independent problem where there is little trust in the community, it is both for the employee and for the professional drivers as I please. We don't have to ask ourselves twice whether we have value for Generalis, depending on individual politicians, etc. We must work that confidence back one step at a time. What I'm pointing out is that we have absolutely unique circumstances to continue this journey in the direction of improved biographers. That is not the basis for this tremendous conflict on the grounds of which it is laid. This is also not the basic requirement for elevations of 50 to 65%, such as individual people came to the table at this time. There is a need for calmness and a greater sense of reason. Total emphasis needs to be more solidarity. If people were just talking about raising the lowest wage, it would all be much simpler, wouldn't it? But it's just not like that. There are certain demands that men come to the table completely divided. Some stress housing, as mentioned earlier, others stress tax issues, third wishes that education is paid for, and the fourth group wants a minimum wage of 300. Well, the fifth would like them to be 400. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've also heard that minimum wage should be 600 of you. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u13	A respectable president. I also plan to deal with the discretion and political standing as they see. The fact is, and the explanation may be expressed in reply to the highest degree. Financial and economic ministers, that the government loses its support and confidence from month to month. The prime minister obviously has a major image problem that is supported by surveys and reflected in the community talk. The problem is very complex, but most important, it is reflected in the conflict between words and actions, that the government groups do not agree on one case after another, and the task management of this government is not. No one seems to have a perspective. The Ministers are isolated from their affairs, and things will either be removed here at the council or they won't pass through because of the opposition of government opposition and the community. In the Declaration of Government Orders, it says, by permission of the President: In recent years the government also plans to eliminate the political uncertainty that has been too prominent in Icelandic society. The workforce and development of work markets will be expanded to a wide range of agreements with the labour market. It's almost like there's some kind of joke going on here. The labour market is in a historical situation. More serious strikes and larger strikes than for decades and the responsibility of the government in a civil campaign with government officials is irrefutable. What is needed in order for the government to discern the seriousness of the situation? And what happens then, a respectable president? The amazing advantage is that people are still increasing the inequities in society by decompositioning their fictitious tax systems or at least reducing their tax steps. Is there really a need to infiltrate the collective ideas of liberals in order to evict the tax system? Is that true? Is that the case? The situation in Icelandic society is very serious, and if all outside circumstances were so fantastic as the highest. Minister will reiterate here in his answers, so why is everything in Iceland a mess?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u14	Mr. President. In fact, I believe that the government has done quite well in some of the fundamental issues of achieving only peace in the community on these factors. May I mention the Constitution, which was in constant agitation, the fishing system, it was treated by the left management board that a new bill of fundamental changes was introduced every year, but it was never met to be completed because it was ultimately not agreed. [[Up front.]] I'm just gonna mention this as two obvious examples of a case that can't be inconsistency. The left government got four years, she didn't do anything in either of those cases that landed. Regarding what the government can do to create a better position here for the preparation of collective agreements - yes, tax systems are considered. We need to reduce taxes that were raised in recent years. It's important, for example, for middle pickers. It's important to reduce the peripheral effects of the tax system. We've got too much perimeter taxes in the system. They go by the middlers over 50%. This means that more than any dollars you add to your salary will be lost in taxes or lost compensation. I think it's too much. Some peers in this house may think it's just appropriate, it might be 60 or 70%, but it's just too far. How is it, if appearances are so clear, that there is so much conflict? There are reasons why the matter cannot be summed up. But I'm going to bring one theory here. I believe that the pros in this country have managed too much to reflect on the responsibility to do better with those in the lowest pay category in the state. There is nothing natural about it, with the reform system we have and the income tax system as it is today, where the state does not see a dollar of pay up to 240,000, that it remains that it is the government's problem to improve the share of these people. [[The president calls.]] It must be at some point when professional drivers take up paying decent pay from those in the lowest income groups. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It can't be just a government problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u15	A respectable president. It is clear that the government is completely and without any hesitation of responsibility for the situation. Likely, this is because simply she cannot handle the situation. First, she is responsible for her being up, acting surprised. The government can't even celebrate the reign's birthday without being locked up in its panels on what. There is nothing else in this situation, a respectable president, but to create a parapolitic field in an attempt to achieve peace and balance in the community. It's happened. Councilmen who have asked the Minister before me. I also state that the left movement is ready to arrive at this level in an attempt to solve the serious situation in Iceland. What's going on? Budget and economic secretary on that idea?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u16	Mr. President. If it were so that in recent years the income - rich group would have been completely left entirely behind in the commercial gains, then perhaps it would be the basis for this speech, and someone would have told them that the government had no ability and had given up on that assignment. The fact is, though, that the buying power of less - paying failures has been growing faster than others. That's what happens because we've been cutting back. This is because we have dropped the taxes at the lowest level and increased the target levels above 300,000 - people went to the international tax level at 1000,000 K. that's why we changed. We also reduced the interstitial taxation level, since many people who are far below the average average are paying taxes, bringing 5 billion of them to employees. We were doing the same thing at the end of the year when we reduced spells. This has been among the things we have been doing to increase our financial resources. Then, may I mention the effort we have now made to extend justice to those who suffered from inflation and who had prices for housing? [[The president calls.]] 80 billion have gone into what has led to domestic debt being restored to a position comparable to that in 2004 as a proportion of GDP. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are measures to help people get better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u17	Mr. President. V.E.G. A financial minister said just before we needed a solidarity on the subject. He also said that there was no basis for this dissatisfaction in the labour market. He did not seem to understand what causes this dissatisfaction, what is the real problem. In addition, he says that in recent years and decades the situation has often taken up in a work - market conflict. So it seems that there is some sort of systematic problem that one does not know who is. The Declaration of the Government Propulsion Class and Independence Class states: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. And he also says: In recent years the government also plans to eliminate the political uncertainty that has been too prominent in Icelandic society. The workforce and development of work markets will be expanded to a wide range of agreements with the labour market. This is clearly a call for policy-making and long-term consultation. That's obviously what we need. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, one of the generals, what they have been doing regarding long-term policy development to create peace in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u18	Mr. President. I can't remember any better than we've been sitting together, me and what. A senator, at a meeting, at a meeting point on increasing prosperity, where these issues were particularly on the program. I can't remember better than we've been sitting next to him. It was a two - hour consideration of how we could change the workforce's focus and structure to achieve a better long - term perspective and to change the focus. My opinion is that we have reached certain ends of this arrangement. We need to start building on a larger framework and on the employee side, be prepared to give the lead a clear commission, but do not divide to the bargain table. This includes being willing to look for longer in the economy, such as by creating economic schemes, and in common to determine the scope of the economy for it, at the next labour agreement, to go up to the pay raise. What freedom is really there? What can we do to promote such activities in the country where produce is greater and that as many as possible can have jobs there? What emphasis must be made on education so that more graduates are needed for jobs, etc.? That's all we're talking about. We sat together, me and what. A senator, just to discuss this, and that's not long ago. In many cases, as the root cause of the dispute today, the government has been making preparations in the divided business of the State that people have been throwing under the influence of all kinds of income stocks. Then I'm going to point this out. The government is now taking 38 billion of the fact that the population and banks pay taxes that were previously paying 1 billion taxes. This has enabled us otherwise to complete our debt and close the budget. Other taxes that have declined primarily on the people of the country, either on the lower income steps or on the intermediate steps, the wealth tax is often mentioned, but they also paid many who had no superintendents, since they were not based on income. [[The president calls.]] The total operation of the State on income taxes, on tax matters, has resulted in the increase of the taxpaying of the state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There have been no taxes thrown to row.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u19	Mr. President. That's right, this was a very good meeting at a meeting on a more economic level, where it was being handled exactly and how it works in the North countries, why they're doing so much better than us to keep the peace and to make long-term dating. It also makes it very clear, in the Iceland report Mckinsey, that long-term dating is not available in Iceland. It's way too much shooting, way too little teamwork. They specifically mention Denmark as a country in which long - term dating is a success. But exactly there, a third of the Parliament can refer to a national law that prepares the policy to be settled. The majority cannot force things through, cannot force things through the council. So it must be more extensive consultations and agreements on long-term policy dating that will succeed there. In other parts of the North countries, for example, there are minority governments, which also mean more solidarity. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. The secretary of finance is not prepared to work more fully on this matter - and how does this issue apply to a legal matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u20	Mr. President. What I didn't come to this point was that the interest of the labour market, and perhaps rather the employee side, has been too limited to work on the basic change in this field, to bring up a new workforce. It's always said: We have to go through this round first, so let's change the focus, so let's change the arrangement. But okay. If that's what it takes, to set a bargain one more time before we start doing it, it may just have to be that way, but there's still a stage, and it's just gonna have to keep hammering this iron. In the North countries - yes, there are in some cases with quite a different kind of work, as mentioned here, because there are minority governments there. Yes, Danir has this law on national regulations, but he has never used it, or I think for once, and that is because they assume that if it is applied, he will know how to take the bite of humans later. [[Up front.]] In fact, it wasn't true here in Iceland in another language, which in some respects is comparable, they didn't believe that it would ever be used because others might later use it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Sadly, though, that was not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u21	V.E.G. President. I've been thinking about asking a question for the highest level. Industrial and commercial minister on the natural pass so-called, but to recall it a little bit, the highest possible. Finally, when the government had been sitting for a year and a half, or December 9th, a minister proposes a natural pass. The mountain, in effect, was iodinated with iodine, and a small mouse was born, but sadly it was still dead. When the bill appeared, everyone opposed it, especially the tourism. Then came the case on February 4 and February 20, and on February 20, the issue ran out of reports and came many reviews and most of the negatives. The stone was then off when the head of the professional trade committee, anyway. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, in effect, issued a perfect death certificate on the natural pass in interviews on this subject. For one thing, because there was a huge disagreement about the bill as it appears, there would be no way to win it or to take it through the committee. It is then referred to as other means, such as coming fees, spending of inns, payments of parking lots, etc. A respectable president. As I say, I feel that time has been extremely ill of the highest. A minister to get this matter going and to port because of 1st. The representatives of each group could be understood that there was a great deal of agreement to provide a price for tourists to use in building up tourist areas, which are urgent. That's why I say, there's been a death certificate published on the bill at the highest. Minister to authority, as I said to 1. By the time we reach the end of the day, almost no one is recommending it. So I ask the highest. Minister: What will the minister do about this matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What will its suggestions and its government be about its continuation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u22	A respectable president. The senator's description of this fine language was extremely dramatic. I almost completely disagree with this description and the appointment of the senator. From then on, the natural pass came to be on a professional committee. It's the fact of the matter, and I'm sorry, of course, because I had and believe in this way of earning money, but it didn't come together, and that's the fact. Hv. One senator said that he felt that there was some other way to reach a decision. He mentioned coming fees, incubating fees, parking fees. I got it. I got it. A senator to read the reviews of the case because if there is anything that came up, it was that men were not suggesting the only way that general agreements were involved. Sadly, it has been the fact of this subject for all too long, so for example, it was unsolved. A senator had been in charge for many years - unsolved because it is difficult to achieve solidarity in this matter. What we're working on right now is the most important thing in all of this, the subject will not leave us. The State must accept responsibility in places owned and in charge of the State. That's what we're gonna do. In the meantime, or since this matter began, there have been some changes in the value of the tax system, as the senator knows, including subdividing, and taking additional services for the tourism service into... which will provide further income that will be used to provide a stream of tourism infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u23	V.E.G. President. It is really not surprising that the highest. A minister comes in here to talk about the matter coming up somewhere other than himself. Here it was clear to the highest. A minister will give in no uncertain terms in this matter. Give up, she's given up on the case. Is it rebellious? Yeah, part. Is that offensive to the bedside balance set in the last term, 100 bucks, giving a total of 265 million? every year? Yes, I think so. There's more to it than this. The market also has a message on what we will do in 2016, 2017. Now in 2016, it seems to me that the election period of this government expires without a secretary's ability to sue through the council and establish what was very at the General Hall among all members of Congress, but that is not a recommendation. Ministers have chosen evil health. [[The president calls.]] She chose the worst, the worst, and she stuck to it because of paradoxing instead of making room fees and raising them to 400 bucks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That would be the total amount she was going to achieve with the undefined, poorly developed natural passes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u24	A respectable president. This is not about my prejudice. As I pointed out earlier, no matter how often the matter took place, the fact is that there was no solid agreement about one way in this matter. A senator claims it isn't right. I encourage him again to read the reviews.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u25	A professional health committee could not finish the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u26	A professional health - care committee could not take a natural pass bill and turn it into a bill for reimbursement or a host fee because it is in the field of another committee first, second secretary, and therefore it is not deemed possible by Congress. In terms of parking expenses, if the senator is a big amateur of them, I'll tell him that the relevant places have full authority to charge for parking. [[The president calls.]] There's a deposit in all the national parks of the country. However, it is a service fee and will likely be used for the services of these parking areas, not to ensure infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] But as for the responsibility, we will, of course, shoulder it and secure the infrastructure. It was... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u27	A respectable president. The export plan seems to be contrary to consumer interests. For example, some companies have purchased 90% of all tollcota with a poultry meat, which must have been both competitive and potentially lead to violations of competitiveness. This is also shown in a report by the European Parliament on the opening of markets and construction in Icelandic employment, by permission of a dignified president: 'The arrangement and implementing the distribution of tollovata reduces the potential for new and smaller rivals to make themselves available.' This reduces competition and thus reduces the benefit of consumers. Foreign agricultural products are often less expensive than those produced on land and free markets, and consumers will be able to choose between domestic products or abroad, taking into account prices and quality. And I repeat, taking into account prices and good things. I'm as sure of it as I am of many others that the Icelanders would rather choose domestic products for their good. However, the current programme prevents this choice, for those planning to import agricultural products must pay high price for import wastes and have found that the prices of this saying have increased considerably over the past few years. Thus, in some cases the price of agrienvironmental products will be ignored. Therefore, I say, this system has obviously walked to the skin, and it is best seen in the best way that the federal court concludes that the sale of agricultural and marine eviction ministers over the years has been charged with the import of farms and is contrary to the constitution. The Court believes that the commission is tax, in the sense of 40th and 77th. The constitution. In other words, the Contestance Commission has published a report on government guidance, which in many cases has failed to consider the recommendations of the Contestance Board, and it has to do with customs, markets, and prices that are still in effect and high. I'm not in the interest of talking about mascots, they're about 2 billion a year, but the other tolls on non-preservatories are also 2 billion a year. That's why I want to ask the highest. Agricultural minister two questions. The first one reads: Has it been considered to change or disappear from the invitation charge for tollovata due to the import of farms? Has it been considered to change the amount of stocks and prices that have been placed on imported foods?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the opportunity to take this discussion here in the Hall of Congress. Regarding the first question about whether to change or disappear from an tender fee, the answer is as per 65. g. Law on production, prices and sale of farms, No. 99/1193, there are two methods of distribution of tollotes. One way is to let lots control distribution or look for sources for import. In fact, both routes have been on this land, following both pros and cons. Tollovate, however, has the increased cost of consumers, which is expected to be in a higher price than the price of salacan, and the benefits of taxpayers have also been noted that the way of extending large numbers of people a better opportunity to obtain goodbye than small companies such as that. A senator mentioned. When lots are interpreted, it has been suggested that there is a great insecurity for who is receiving the quota. In this way, small persons could get large quotas and possibly sell to larger companies for profit, and this has actually been the case. On March 17, 2015, three judges died in the city of Reykjavík. Iceland's policy required reimbursement of its alleged overpayers due to import of agricultural products. The total financial value of the three journals was over 500 million. K. Judges in the three cases were consistent. The United States was acquitted by the demands of plaintiffs. However, according to a local court, the tax paid by immigrants to the Icelandic State for tollovata is a tax paying in the sense of 40 C.E. and 77th pars. Icelandic republic Constitutions, No. 33/144. Then we will consider the choice of a minister given in Article 65. layer on manufacture, prices and sale of livestock. The sentence says: It has been decided by the secretary whether or not tax should be imposed by law, between two physical techniques, i.e. whether a coin should be selected or tender. The Court then concluded that the lawgiver, in a case given to the minister too extensive a taxation power, is in opposition to the earlier regulations of the Constitution. However, it may be reasonable for the Icelandic State to respond to the judgment of the district to eliminate the uncertainty that has come up with tollovate distribution. It is bad that there is uncertainty about their distribution and whether the price of government funds is caused by this intervention. That's what happens to the state funds, and it cost over 345 million. K. in 2014. In view of the above, deportation from 3 mg is considered to be the case. 65. g. The words of the law allowed lots to take over. A second question asked by the leader was whether it was being taken into consideration to change the amount of stocks or the prices laid on imported foods. The answer is that changing prices or amplitude has not been considered on its own. Such changes would be made through two-way contracts with other countries. It should be noted, however, that these customs were determined by law in 1995, thus detracting from that time the coercion of a dollar's head.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u29	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear what you're asking me. paritaprevir Ragnhey, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, on this matter, and I must say, I find answers to the highest degree. Agricultural minister is rather demeaning by reference to the whole inquiry. There are a number of judicial cases that have fallen to the value of the procedure that has been carried out in the so - called tollovates, i.e. It has been done by the people that a minister is responsible for the distribution of tollots. This is accomplished in opposition to 77th. The constitution, like the highest. A minister came in a little bit in his answer. I think it's strange the way he's preaching that there's a 3rd-mg drop-off to be considered. 65. g. The possibility of a coin toss, because I think the judging is just about that it's not the problem. However, I would like to mention that the ideologies behind this system, the ideologies itself, are defective, utterly defective. The work of one class in the country will not be protected in the way this is done by cutting off the job freedoms of others, immigrants, at the expense of consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u30	A respectable president. I want a brief comment in the discussions about this inquiry to say that it would be a great improvement to all of us if a transparent and simple system of how we use the products we have on farm production and the marketing of agricultural products. At the same time, I want to give the highest point. Agricultural minister should see how we will use the instruments in the future, especially in view of the state of meat market under the shadow of the current strike, how we will use the instruments that are at least indiscriminate and we can control, in order to manage this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u31	A respectable president. I think this is the fourth or fifth time I am in this speaker's office to discuss this very matter at the highest level. Minister, i.e. invitations for tollrotes. And I'm not really any closer. Sounds like the highest. Minister that dropping lots is somehow not good, and he wants more than anything, but if they don't come in the box, consumers actually save that amount, so I don't think it's a good argument. We've also discussed here that the stakeholders don't agree on which route they are able, and then I ask: Have these stakeholders all met in one room with the highest priority. Minister and talk things over? I'm almost sure it's not. I think there's a way to figure this out, e.g. A way in which a part of the quatane may depend on the size of the companies and the rest of them divided by lots or... find some way in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u32	Mr. President. A recent report published by Iceland's Business Council on the Costs of Toll Protection on Food will lead to consumers. In view of all households, customs would be returned ten billion dollars to consumers. This year, in the form of a lower price. There's about 80 of you. K. to every home in the country. What does this mean in terms of government support, this protection, this protection, for agriculture? It returns about 60% of what it costs consumers. It's such a bad tax recovery, it's such an overexploitable way to support the agriculture; it's so costlyly costly to consumers without getting along well with the farm. If this were to be done in another way, the value of support would be directly in the form of agricultural farming, up to this 6 billion; if it could be achieved by a much more efficient tax system, such as this government's policy is to be done with a merit tax so that everyone could make a profit. The consumers would have lower prices, lower food prices, and more agricultural resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry is not easy to understand. Minister. Is it really so that when courts judge the less expensive way for consumers to do so, the highest possible conclusion is given. The minister of removing the laws of cheaper means for consumers, i.e. A coin toss. At least there's a strange creature in my mind. I must ask the highest. Minister: After the district judgment has fallen, even if the case is taken up to the Supreme Court, is it not the monopoly to show respect for the Constitution to use in lots until the Supreme Court has passed its judgment? I'd also like to ask, " How long has it been since a coin's been used and whether it was applied to a far smaller extent than the auction route? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u34	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the answers, but I have to admit that I'm actually standing here in a bit in the middle of nowhere considering my previous questions because I couldn't tell it in the answers to the highest. Ministers that this court case should be considered on the sale and in what way it would be returned, since the judge believes it is a tax in the sense of law, and the minister was given too much authority, if we can say so. So I just want to ask you again: Is it only where the Minister of Agriculture, and then the Ministry, to remove it by lot, but to keep the rest, but that is the factor that was condemned illegal? I pray to the highest degree. Minister to proceed further. V.E.G. At the same time, a minister said that magmas were in centenarians and that they had been cut down considerably since they were placed in 1995. But at the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because amplitude and prices are put on to protect domestic foods produced in this country, but in the case of a product not produced on the land, it still carries equal amounts and prices, so I ask the highest level. Minister: Is that possible? Is there a law that has been set on amplitude and prices to protect domestic production, that in the case of non-existent products and not produced in Iceland, it should still be used both amplitude and prices?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. Congress members participate in this discussion. There's a lot of problems in this customs environment, that's right. How desirable and desirable it would be that we could simplify it and make it clearer to everyone. For example, it has been said that there is a more expensive route and a less expensive route. The way that customs are spoken of - as I entered them - this amount will come to be in the state's budget, and it will likely be put by those who bring it into the product. What if another way had gone? What will the profit of consumers be? Of course, consumers are the ones who usually benefit from receiving tax returns, as mentioned earlier, so I agree that it might be convenient. In many ways the judgment is nice, but in some respects it is vague. For one thing, it is abnormal, and it is a violation of a constitution, a minister's choice. Therefore, it is the response of the Ministry that came to a matter of removing that choice, but as also shown in my case, the state was acquitted by all the demands of a plaintiff, working the case. This was also shown in the case of the day. Foreman, it is normal for agricultural products to be generally less expensive. Of course, that's not absolute. Lactic products that have been dependent on public prices are likely to form considerably less expensive in this country than in all similar countries, even considerably, even twice as cheap as in many countries. It was also noted that Iceland's people generally prefer Icelandic goods to their price and quality. I guess you're right. However, Sweden joined the European Union and believed this, while agriculture in the United States is falling. [[The president calls.]] The quality and security that we will make sure that they are firm must be stressed. It's just that the weight usually talks when people go shopping for food.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u36	A respectable president. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for obtaining data and answering this afternoon my inquiry about the state of the Intersex children, which was recently distributed. I'll get to my questions in a moment, but I'd like to start with a short list of what Intersex is. It may not be fully clear, but I believe that to change the attitudes, habits, and decision - making of the children here born to intersex, we should first increase our understanding of the subject and understanding of the consequences of a thoughtless intervention can have on the lives of these individuals. Intersex is a term that covers a wide range of inborn physical symptoms, or the variability between us standard male and female concepts. Intersex subjects are born with symptoms that are not entirely male or female, which are a combination of male and female or neither male or female. The Intersex Converter, so to speak, is quite common but not very obvious, as was mentioned earlier. The worst common statistics are one in every 2,000 births, or about 0.05 percent, but the more likely number is about 1.7%, which means it's as likely that someone is an Intersex as being born red hair, there's a similar statistical point of view. Intersex individuals, like all other people, can have health problems. In the case of individual analyses, medical assistance may be required from birth, but in some cases, the intersex variability is not a medical issue. A medical kit usually aims to allow an intersex body to adapt to our traditional ideas about the male and female body. I have a record that even a newborn child is put under the knife in order to eliminate any abnormality that still exists in some people's minds, those who still count in 2015 in incredible paradoxity, and I would like to allow myself to say simply that the human family does not exist to be a town other than either man or woman. A respectable president. In view of this discussion, I believe it is necessary to ask the highest question. Healthcare Minister: 1st How is it decided if there is any reason to operate on an intersex child? Who will come to that decision? 2. What do parents' information about intersex and medical treatments do? 3. What kind of advice and instruction do parents receive from the Intersex children at the time of diagnosis, and who cares for them? 4. How many people have been offered an abortion based on the presence of a fetus over the intersex variability? [[The president calls.]] 5. How many operations per year are performed in children to describe the age-adjusted (wage) as it is called?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u37	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has pointed to me five questions involving the Intersex children. In my answers below, I rely mostly on information from the Land Hospital - College Hospital. The term is very extensive and therefore will be followed by responses to children of varicella who undergo a very large number of diagnostic analyses according to the international disease classification system. When it is asked how it is possible to perform an intersex operation and who is involved in the decision-making process, it is to answer that when a child of a barren sex is born, a neonatal doctor and a nurse who first comes to call an endocrinologist of children and when appropriate for a child's surgeon to make the first examination or observation and then decide what investigation is needed and then discuss with the family of the newborn child the situation. Early in the process, depending on the wishes of parents, psychologist, geneticist, and other health groups are called when needed. No decisions are made until an accurate analysis is made and all decisions are the joint conclusions of the individuals listed here, and the child's rights and parents are, of course, fully respected. Also asks why. Senator on how to inform parents about intersex and medical treatment. That's what those people I mentioned before, i.e. Experts, nurses, psychologists, geneticists, and other health groups provide oral information in which your child's position is discussed and which treatment options are available. They also refer to material online, such as theoretical websites, professional magazines, but also to free society websites, such as groups of patients and partners. The latter can often impart to parents from their own experience in similar situations. There is also a question of advice and instruction from the parents of the Intersex children who are able to obtain a diagnosis and who will care for it. It was actually shown in my answer to a question No. 2 that these are primarily oral data, and the subsequent advice is advice from professionals and where this will be provided with information from independent active organisations, who have and are able to impart it. The extent and nature of the information and advice provided depends on the needs of your child's parents and family. Then they ask why. Fourthly, a senator of how many women were offered an abortion based on the presence of an fetus over the intersex variability. It is not known that this has been done in Iceland, for this information is not screened or sought for intersex variation, so there is no known knowledge at birth. However, the embryo's ultrasound scan is in the order of 18,◯20. a week of pregnancy can usually be seen on the basis of foetal sex although sex analysis is not the purpose of this ultrasound examination. Not all parents want to know about the unborn child's sex but about 70% of parents want to know about the sex. In exceptional cases, it is difficult to assess a fetus's gender in these ultrasound examinations and is expressed by parents, but parents are never offered abortion for that reason. Finally, the question arises. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir how many operations a year are performed in children to correct sex, as it is called. These events are very rare. In Iceland, in the last ten years, three children with genital disorder have been born. In addition, one child has been adopted to the country. These four children have been treated at the National Hospital of University Hospital, but when surgical intervention is required for the mismatch of these children's genitals, there are always a series of types of surgical procedures scheduled for the development of the child. Therefore, the number of actions being carried out does not provide a correct picture of the number of cases, but they are very few, as I said at the beginning of my case. I hope this has, in all principle, answered questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u38	V.E.G. President. I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir We are very Björt with Ólafsdóttir for taking up the interests of the Intersex people. The fact is that the subject has not been in the public discussion. I'm here to call attention both to health ministers as well as to our representative of the European Council that the Council of Europe or the European Parliament is currently reporting on the rights of the Intersex people and to the actions that the state must take in order for those people to live with full human rights. I would also like to call to the attention of members of Congress that Malta has established the world's most advanced legislation in order to protect the rights and welfare of the Intersex people as well as the transministers and that I encourage members of Congress to study them with legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u39	A respectable president. Thank you so much for bringing this up. I expect a matter to be held here in due course, and I expect this council to stand up for that matter, because it's not okay with what it is now. It thus seems to be viewed as a problem for social reasons, not for medical reasons in the traditional sense. This is the opinion of others of those who are born with a sex problem, which is not the opposite sex. I've met quite a few of the unbridled sexes, and none of them approves of performing operations on children in order to make them normal in the sense of society. It is not a disease to be a different medical intervention for making normal people in the sense of society unjust.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you for bringing this up here and the highest. Minister for his word. I want to draw the attention of the United States Congress that the '78 Conspiracies and the queer movement in Iceland have led many of us to wake up in this discussion. Among the things listed here have been making a bill for sexual rights that rests on the very legislation mentioned here and is probably the most powerful in the world, which is the legislation in Malta. This includes ensuring that surgery or medical or other procedures are prohibited until the child's informed consent can be obtained, which will be discussed in the relevant articles of the bill. I'm going to request a transfer from all categories with this case, and I think it would be a great deal for us. We've been on the lead with respect to queer legislation, more often than not, and there we are to take a very safe and clear step forward. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u41	Madam President. The Intersex movement in Iceland and around the world calls for human rights accepted by law, human rights for involuntary individuals who are Intersex and for self-deserved persons. As we have seen. paritaprevir Hrafn Gunnarsson's shrine pointed out that none of the unbridled sexes are in favor, as indicated by the Intersex declarations, the performing surgical procedures on involuntary persons, and the assigning of the child to a sex with such a democracy, they are opposed, and this must be legally guaranteed. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir mentioned she's started a bill and, of course, we support it, and we hope that the update of the legal rights of the Intersex people will be made as soon as possible. We should be able to overlook who does this first and then has such a pain in the spirit of the council. We need to unite in bringing this into law and to update it. On the rights of the intersex unit by the doctor. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are all kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u42	A respectable president. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, as well as for the fine discussion. Parliamentaries have been involved. I must say, however, that the answers from a minister aren't enough at all. He has explained some specific process that apparently will begin at the Land Hospital when this situation appears, but the process is not obvious at all, and it is not an acceptable conclusion that in some cases, and perhaps in most cases, children are placed under the knife without being asked. There is no better way to attack self - sufficiency than to place an unspoken child under the knife. Research shows that people who have been sexually corrected, as they call so unfortunate, suffer. Many suffer for it all their life, and it may take half their life to correct the mistakes or to try to correct the mistakes that have been made. It's totally unacceptable to grab people's lives like this without even putting them under it. You can't do that in these days, it doesn't work out. Although abortion is not known, it was noted in the reply of a minister that four children, as he called it, had been treated in the past ten years. I believe we have to legalize, and agree with what other senators have said, that we cannot intervene in people's lives like this. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to be completely forbidden.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-103.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A senator for discussing this matter, as well as thanking for the discussion that has taken place. It is quite clear that there are a number of very new approaches in a discussion of intersex individuals and perhaps a number of ways that the system may fail to cope with the problems involved. I can, in many ways, agree with what has been said about not being desirable to intervene in the way that has been done, but we must likewise acknowledge that it is the right parent to handle his child's affairs and we must deal with how to approach parents if they arise. The answers I called for in this discussion are coming from a Land Hospital ◯ A university hospital where our experts in this field have worked and the system may well be there, and the process is not fully equipped to meet all the wishes that exist in that area. So I expect and hope that this discussion can lead us to take some further step forward in that regard, for it is absolutely correct. paritaprevir The way Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson used it was very simple and clear: Being different is not a disease, and we should not associate with such individuals with that attitude.
