ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u1	There have been two letters from the State Department asking for every request in order to give written answers to inquiries. 660, about torture, from Birgitta Jónsdóttir, and on a threshing floor. 796, on collection boxes and lottery machines, from my son Algmund Jónasson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to a good summary of a framework that has been compiled by the General Information Service and distributed to all members of the Parliament. A review of the development of a Framework Programme and how it is conducted in terms of the activation and management of the project is a good introduction to the discussion of the recent decision of more parts of the work programme where politicians can guide the recruitment initiatives that await professional management and suggest that the Allied agree to transfer them to a draft party. This is despite the fact that the project management has said that it takes more and more time for them to rely on them to suggest the inclusion of the activation initiatives. Those who support this decision are protected from criticism by the greater part of the employment committee by saying that by an approved synonym on a frame plan during the last term, an agreement has been terminated. None of them, however, requested that the one listed here be prepared from references to the Council's decree, which had been 12 weeks in the narrative. We, i.e. I'm a industrial minister and a good man. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, passed through the third hundred envelopes and suggested only, and natural, that the data presented there, and the project management had not discussed before her examination. While many would want to influence our decision, the fact that a minister is not bound by the results of a project government was out of the question for us than to work the case in a professional and transparent way. Therefore, we did not accept it when pressured to move activation options between the two categories arranged by framem, colony class, and reservation. The spirit of the Law on Framework was our guide, but it damage to a frame plan which is now being proposed by most of the employment authorities. The environmental minister is certainly not in the spirit of their law. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u3	A respectable president. It's time for the rest of the country's salary reforms. We now see in this spring, last yesterday at the Personnel Department, put together the requirements for participation in the biographer that have occurred here in recent years. There is good reason that there has truly been enough money, both to reduce the taxes on the wealthiest people in the country, to reduce the taxes on the export in the country, to increase substantial wages, not only on physicians in some exceptional agreements but also on the general labour market pay by managers and middle managers far beyond what others have received. So it is possible that if the government or executives of the economy are going to call for a national offense in the country that is to be paid only by the low-payers, there are people in the general population who are to shoulder the loads and who are to look up for all other interests of their own cakes, who gain taxation and pay outreaching far beyond those on the payroll. No, a respectable president. If any national agreement is to exist, everyone must participate. The people in that land will then have to receive a rich share of the life - giving benefits that have taken place in the past few years. It hasn't got it yet. After that, this spring will be called.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u4	Mr. President. I would also like to discuss the struggle of low-payers in the country. The Work Programme has proposed a 40% rise in the next three years to those who have the lowest salary value. I'm sure someone's in too much trouble. But what does that mean? After three years, this group may be about 240 of you. K. paid for by taxes. Could we live in here? I don't think so. But this is what they're talking about. Of course, it's not unusual for a professional organization to cry out to the wolf, the wolf, that it can't walk, to get out of the way, to get out of the way, and to lie on the side. And Iceland's secret bank agrees with that by saying that pay can only be increased by 3.5% between years. But is there not some group left to form a solidarity to pull out of this tire that is unacceptable and that is not decent to offer? During the day on television, a professor at Harvard University in the United States spoke about inequities in Europe, who said that in 1980 there was an increase in in in in inequities. What were the causes? It was government policy and the labor movement became sick. That's exactly the same thing that's been happening here for the past few years. This dramatic decline is growing in the United States, and it is because of government policy that the labor movement has not been strong enough to protect the welfare system for which it itself was fighting and that our forefathers were fighting. So I am very happy that the labor movement in the country now builds these requirements and intends to fight for the better in the country with the people who have to stand next to us and are going to fight for the better supply of the group we have left behind for far too long. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u5	A respectable president. On October 20, 2012, six questions were asked. The third involved the church ship of the State, and the question was as follows, with the permission of a president: ▪ Do you know that in a new constitution there will be regulations for a national church in Iceland? 57.1% of those taking sides said yes, i.e. More than that. A respectable president. Although I personally feel it is unnecessary to have special regulations for a state church in a constitution, it is important for me to consider the national will to be respected. A law on a local church in Iceland might even help to promote the modern - day church ship of the State. Therefore, I believe it would be appropriate for me to establish a Constitution of the National Church in Iceland to be as follows: The Church shall never be a law, but the State shall support and protect freedom of worship in Iceland. I have already begun the preparation of its bill and gratefully accept, support, and help from other senators to promote it in the field of the council. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u6	A respectable president. The second privatization of banks was made without any discussion at the General Assembly and without any changes in the working environment of banks and other financial companies or financial legislation following the collapse. It should be noted that a personal bank was considered until a collapse or until the State took him over and became a bank of the state. Then, the last government decided to present the creditors of Congress and Glitnis immediately the new banks founded on the bankrupt banks I mentioned. Most of the Lands Bank at that time was and is still owned by the State, and most seriously, the decision to take over from the SEC and to enter the Ministry of finance was taken without any professional judgement, prices, or invitations. It is important in some way that these data will be reviewed, and it will be made public in a manner that reveals the worth of these assets in the transfer from fallen banks to the new banks, and it clearly identifies those responsible for their prices and the basis for this. A respectable president. This matter has been very much discussed in these last days, and there are many differences in viewpoints about it. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason, president of the Conspiracy, made a remarkable statement on the Wave of last night, thinking that it was foolish to look at this matter further. So I ask why. Senator: Is this presented as political interest care, or is it deliberate to keep information from people in order not to cope with the situation, or to admit that this is a changed conclusion on the case that could have a major impact on the future of an Icelandic nation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u7	A respectable president. It is minimal if a person quotes the words of other senators as being correct. I made it clear yesterday that if they wanted to study this case, I'd be sure. On the other hand, if a crime is suspected, it is not Generalis to do so. Rather, we have a justice system in the country, police, and State prosecutor, and it is reasonable for them to investigate the law. I don't keep information from anyone, so I don't take any information I can keep from anyone. Party dog. A senator is in the government, and he can do what he wants with the information he has access to through his seat in the Council of Control. V.E.G. Last night, a minister of finance made it clear that he could not see that the charges of law - defying should be reasoned with me so that I would naturally agree with them. A senator directed his case to the highest. Secretary of finance in this regard. He's taking all the information on these matters, sitting on them at the Ministry of finance. I have made comments about the use of criminal accusations without any material support for political purposes, and it seems to me that this case is taking place. It is fundamental that Iceland is a law that ensures requirements in every case the property of the swellings they require. In any case, the state has no right to take property from the swellingers, and it deprives its rights to its property and its property in an airhouse. So it is with all the swollen areas of the country, whether there are banks or other swelling camps. The demandrs have prepared and essential to the law of emergency, the essentials set up by the government in the fall of 2008, the essentials introduced by the former bank manager in a financial and tax committee during the emergency law, was that evidence would be paid for the property taken out of the weeds. [[The president calls.]] And that has been the promise of the Icelandic government from the beginning, since Geir H. Haarde, the Árni of Mathiesen, og Davíð Odddsson signed the first declaration to the World Bank of Pays, that credit would be paid for the property. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u8	V.E.G. President. Like any other dog. Today, members of Congress are concerned with my contract, but last night the Work Programme Convention introduced its requirements in connection with an upcoming labour agreement. This requirement requires a substantial increase in the lowest salary. The requirements of the Work Programme are logical and reasonable, since they are based on the assumption that Icelandic employees can live on a day's work but do not have to slave for themselves into an endless extra job or more than one full - time job. No matter how professional drivers react, this is the way the labour market will change. This is especially true in the demands of employees. Therefore, it is normal to expect that a significant increase in the lowest pay will occur during the next loss and in the previous few years. This trend, of course, affects us members of the Parliament, where we are at the hands of a fund of financial resources. The state is the largest employer in the country and is also the largest buyer of employment and services. So a long timely adjustment of the rated low-payers should be one of the reasons here at the council. Sadly, a government government has put more emphasis on weakening the government's income institutions than on strengthening them and providing changes that are more likely to benefit them than are poorer. It is clear that this will have to be done in the upcoming budget, and it will immediately be expected that a healthy increase in the lowest wage will occur in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u9	A respectable president. I was going to talk about the collective agreements and the increase in pay from the highest companies owned by the pension fund, but I'd only like to enter the case that was being discussed earlier. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason, president of the United States. I was not there when I spoke. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir spoke of wrongdoing, but the charges that have been under discussion these past few days are, of course, very serious. If it is true that political decisions have been made that contributed to the fact that the demands have been made for 300 to400 billion, that their position has been reinforced, then it must be our debate for all of us to be examined, that they are examined. I know the Board of Directors and Control is looking into this matter. When it comes to this conclusion, there must be something that the entire body of Congress should be able to unite, that if there is any doubt that something in this has been in such a way that it must be examined, it must be the will of all the people here to look into the matter and examine them in a way that is reasonable to eliminate any uncertainty that there was just the right thing to do. I must say, it grieves me to listen to the chairman of the United States, huh? paritaprevir The Árni, Páll Árnason, come up here with twists, and part of the group spends that the Conspiracy will be ready to take a proper look at this matter. [[Up front.]] It is perfectly normal that this issue should be investigated for the least reason - then the question will be answered. Also, a senator is handling the matter correctly. þm. Vigdís Hawkdottir. [[Up front.]] This is especially important in view of these accusations that this is being investigated. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[It's a nice thing...]] [[We've got a lot of turbulence.]] [[I'm in the middle of the Conspiracy.]] A lot of turbulence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u10	V.E.G. President. Sadly, the sexual difference in pay is a fact in our society, and despite major changes in recent years and decades, the Icelandic labour market is very sexual. Although statistics show that the so - called typical women's jobs in all parts of the North countries, they are prominently the least in this country. All changes are very slow. So I want to draw attention to positive initiatives. V.E.G. The Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir, who is both the associate minister of the Northlands and the Minister of Equal Opportunities, states in an article in the News newspaper: ▪ In the norse equality work, the main theme has been to balance the status and rights of women and men of the employment market. It has been shown to be equal to pay and how to crack traditional employment exchanges. Everyone who has observed equality in this country knows what the workforce has been partial in Iceland. This has also been true in other parts of the North. However, it has set up a wide range of programs, including all kinds of prognosis, for men to be included in the traditional women's classes, such as in the preschool and caring and vice versa. This has been successful because it has been done in a progressive way. Sadly, though, we have not done so. I would therefore especially like to welcome the fact that one of the major non-inferiority projects listed by the Minister and to be strengthened by the European Commission's budget of equality is exactly a project designed to reduce sexual academic and professional selection. This will be done at the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture. So I say at last, at last, a respectable president. Today, there is to be a progressive effort to break up the sexual market. That's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u11	A respectable president. I'm going to focus on the specialized medical diagnosis of children in society when there are times when there could be a simpler way. I've been thinking about these matters for a long time, but this discussion was given in the morning newspaper of January 15 of last year, where Evald Sæmundsenur, a field director of a study at the State Analysis and Advisorship, woke me up for further thought. In recent years, the knowledge of preschool staff on a variety of developmental and academic abnormalities has advanced. At the same time, knowledge has increased with how students can be helped to attend school and school. At the same time, professional knowledge and the skills of the school service staff have increased and there is the ability to detect abnormalities and give advice to personnel. This should ensure that, to a lesser extent, the system needs to be searched after services, but at the same time, waiting lists will be extended to the most specialized medical analysis, such as the State's National Analysis and Advisory Centre and BUGL. I allow myself to doubt that all those on the list are really needed. Rather, the need is in part based on the financial support of rural society and, to some extent, part of the community is assigned to school on the basis of specialized medical diagnosis. Happily, in most elementary and nursery schools there is work to deal with the needs of children regardless of whether the formal diagnosis of a psychiatrist or a doctor is available. So I would like to challenge health authorities, educational authorities, and rural society to come together and review such procedures, for there I believe it is possible to simplify things along with improving the work of parents, schools, rural areas, and the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u12	A respectable president. A year and a day ago, the Women's Society became the Ring of 110 years ago. On that day, the Ring women decided to present the County Children's Hospital 110 million. K. Yesterday, it was remembered what had been done at a commercial buy to the Children's Hospital. The Ring's Children's Hospital has enjoyed the goodness of the Ring's Women in the past few years and decades and is worthy of mention. The woman's ring is a channel for fine works. The princes of the Ring give the Ring money, apartments, funds to make arrangements for the Children's Hospital of the Ring. With these gifts, the hospital is well - equipped to care for its clients, Icelandic children. I would like to use this opportunity to thank what is well done. I thank you for the help of Icelandic children, born and unborn. I say thank you, and I also say, "My lovely ladies, the ring ladies, thank you." [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u13	A respectable president. I would like to discuss only the School Hall that is conducted at the General Assembly for high school seniors. There students play role games and get an opportunity to identify with members of the Parliament and participate in conferences and committee meetings and the idea of giving students insight into how things are enjoyed at the Council and how political decisions are made. This is very important, and I was very interested when I first met the School Assembly. However, I had never heard of the School Hall, and I have two children who have gone through elementary school in Akureyri, so I inquired only of what schools were attending the School of the Schools. Since 2007, 70 basic schools have visited the School Hall, 17 of which are outside the capital area, of which there are six in the vicinity, in the South, or in the West. No school from East Fjords has ever visited the School Hall, two from the North, and two from the West, coming on one trip. I don't really feel acceptable that this important information is not available to students except in the local and local capital areas. Can the Assembly pass through the country? I don't know. The Norwegian Parliament offers schools a tourist scholarship if they want to come and visit the council. Is a way of inviting high school students, e.g. in the first grade, visiting the School Hall? In high school, we are often taking vacation trips to Reykjavík. I want to roll it up here. I don't know exactly where to direct these questions, maybe to the highest. But I hope that there will be a way of bringing this into mind, how we will make sure that children in the whole country can get acquainted with this commandment. I don't think it's acceptable, and there should be more to think about than I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u14	For this reason, the president wants to say something. A senator, he thinks so. A senator moved here very interestingly. It would be easy for the council to see how children outside the capital area can be helped to enjoy the services that the School Assembly truly offers. Therefore, the president will take these matters to a meeting of the presiding committee to look for ways to correct matters. A senator rightly pointed to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u15	V.E.G. President. It's been a great lesson, and it's been nice to have the opportunity to work in this historic house in this little room, which is so big for us Icelanders and me. A general body member's work is very important, and he has observed from the distance as an amateur for a long time in politics has been delighted to have the opportunity to adapt himself to this work. This important work, which many people have learned to talk down and despise, I would like to make up for it. Consider the following job advertisements, and consider whether our best and most qualified people are likely to apply: Advertising is an important job that includes making laws, affecting society in length and prey, an opportunity to influence the quality of the people, the environment, education, and health needs to be mentioned. Large, targeted decisions that are not all likely to exist in the present season must be made. Worktime is irregular, not specifically paid for night, night, or weekend work, it is likely that a large percentage of the people in the country will criticize you in the media and on community media, usually indiscriminately, for just being on a conflicting political opinion. The performance and benefit of objective measures will not be measured or measured. No actual renewal for the job is carried out in the workplace. After four years, the voters of your party will determine whether or not you will be re-elected, first at a re-election and then in elections, without actually any objective assessment of the effectiveness of a job. The U.S.R. has the confidence of 10 percent of the population. The cafeteria is very good. [[Up front.]] For this job a fixed salary will be paid 651,446 k. In comparison, a regular average wage in Iceland is 436 yous. K. Compared to the countries we usually compare with, the basic salaries in Iceland are small and not directly related to the importance of the work. On average, the basic salary of the general body in controlled countries is two to three times higher than the average wage. Is it certain that these terms will attract the fittest, the most ambitious, and the best possible control of the nation's vessel? My assessment is that there is a danger of this work, if it cannot be responded, only for those already strong, fiery idealists, or those who have no choice of a different and better job. [[The president calls.]] So I say, for the work to be a real alternative, we need to think about our work environment and reimburse the general members of the council. [[The president calls.]] I would like to have some objective discussions on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u16	A respectable president. The police arms debate continued here yesterday. After that discussion, I think a little bit of thought and ask, " What is it that the senators don't understand? ' Or is the police being drawn into political discussions? This has been an enormous discussion of the subject since October. The Parliamentary Committees have been filled with information on the subject, full of information has been published in public areas, but it is still claimed to be changing arms or arms abuse by the police. It's been in the way, all the rules have been in the way for a few months. The police have had hundreds of firearms for tens of years that have been distributed in many parts of the country. It has a fixed policy on their access, and the basis of their rules has often been reported recently. Yet, it is claimed that this is being changed, and the police are using weapons every day and so on. What's going on is that the police are doing their job, the security role involved in ensuring the safety of the citizens by being prepared for that unexpected. All of this has been about that following professional risk assessment and risk analysis and other decisions on how to train and equipment should be made. I ask many of those who have participated in this discussion whether this was the thought, the change in policy, when 50 firearms from the Norwegian army came in 2011. [[Set up in the National Guard.]] To the U.S. National Guard, who operates law enforcement at sea. Was it the same? Let's be clear, too, that this is all about improving the safety of the citizens and those who are in security, and this is not something to be suspicious of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u17	President. I have to say, in general, there is no more security in the presence of guns. But there's something I'm not gonna talk about right now. I just wanted to review a discussion that has taken place on the evidence that Víglundur Þorsteinsson has sent to us members of the council and has been in the community discussion. For some reason, it has been decided to make this a political case, but it is right to consider that the matter is being discussed by a administrative and surveillance committee. There it was. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson are being brought to care for the job, and the case is actually being investigated on the II Parliament's professional committee. So I find it quite amazing to take it to the traditional political quarries, mainly the forward party trying to do. You should be right. I must also say, my dear members, that I find it most boring when people are being brought up by some strange motive. I was just sitting here, listening to what I heard. paritaprevir The apostle Páll Árnason said that he was in favor of being examined, and then a senator from the advance party claims that the senator was saying something completely different. And if it's critical, it's all of a sudden because we feel uncomfortable putting up with it. I don't understand this nonsense. I don't understand why we have to act like we're in high school. Can't we start acting like people? I'm asking you, at least. The situation sucks enough on some committees. That's all I'm gonna say. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u18	A respectable president. It's better than there are many words to know that there is one of the most urgent jobs in Iceland's economy to clear a currency head. Their cost is huge. Business evaluations lost their currency in 80 billion per year due to the currency ransacks. We see that financial companies find it difficult to finance abroad, and as a result, larger companies are enjoying a better choice, an increase in circumstances between smaller companies and big ones, and many other negative consequences are due to currency. To be effective on this important project, the picture needs to work out, and it needs to put the interests of Icelandic and Icelandic homes and companies at the same time. It is not enough to focus on the swelling farms and their needs or other factors; there must be no steps to get some out unless you can be sure that you can meet the needs of individuals, pension funds, and businesses in the immediate and long term. We cannot put an Icelandic job life in chains to the future in order to serve foreign managers. In recent years, we have seen that the government is full of talk about executions, but it's going to happen in a very small way. Prominents of prime minister and financial minister have now been so extensive and magnificent that it has actually become a special literature. It is enough to say that right after the government received it, the prime minister told him that he had a clear plan for execution that would be presented in September that same year. On October 15, 2013, the minister of finance claimed that the ban was short. In January 2014, the prime minister said that the government had a short time to remove the oceans and on June 7 last year, the minister of finance - and it may now be possible to join him in it - that it takes political courage to eliminate the problem. He hasn't been offered much, apparently. In time, we had a prior government program on tables that was clear, and we have been working on and secure a contract against foreign demands by placing the swelling workers' possessions under their heads in March 2012. Then the forwarding party stayed, and the Independence Party voted back. And that is the deal we now need to make use of. At the end of that election period, we had proposed ideas of the solution of the seagulls, which expected the state and pension funds to take over the holding of banks and that space up to 300 billion, was estimated then, would be created. But ever since, nothing has happened. The current effectiveness programme expected that when national and national gangs joined together, they would come to an eco-efficiency system. This has now happened, but it doesn't interfere with the outing tax or its implementation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is involved in this? Then the big question is, What is the goal? Is the main goal of removing favors, or has the government become inactive and paralyzed because it has become the prisoner of the prime minister's repeated declarations of the enormous amount of money he was going to create by delinquency? Is it not necessary for the government to decide whether the goal is to eliminate a currency or to earn money for the state? What is the position of the minister of finance in this regard? What is his priority? Is it not a headache to rid the oceans, to find a way to do so, and can't we meet together for that primary purpose? Of course, we would like to create all the space possible, but the primary objective must be to ensure the success of decommissionation. Finally, the secret that has been over the project is a lot of thought. The World Cash Fund, in its recent assessment, says that full transparency is very important and that the survival of a plan for decommissionation is assured. It is a source of concern and suspicion, this veil of mystery and the huge circle that has been placed on the institutions of this subject, as well as on new and new committees that seem to be evidence of controversy in the government's future. Is the minister of finance willing to take the next steps in an open process here and discuss with us openly, building a parapolitic solidarity on this important matter of national interest? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u19	Mr. President. This is set in motion one of the largest economic projects the government does, if not the largest. It is important that we discuss this matter in the correct context of things. First of all, a mere discussion of the time it takes to amputate, I've said several times: In itself, there is no legal or economic concern, requiring that the oceans be certain for a long time. There are only certain things that have to happen. The pressure on the crown needs to be relieved, due to abduction of the fallen bank population, because of the dean of the country's population, and because of the reimbursement of funds in the country, before it is done. For our shares in the government, it doesn't have to take a certain number of years. It's just that it hasn't been born that way. This is primarily because the worn - out market has not reached its completion and has failed to have reasonable expectations of how it can happen so that it can be given free will from currency. It's delayed the process. That is why I have often said in a public discussion about this: This may take a relatively short time if expectations can be adjusted. It hasn't happened. Yet, some positive things have happened in the past year or six months. I'd like to mention that we have charted this underlying problem far better than we had done up to that time. We've been helped by foreign counselors, especially over the last six months. I appreciate it so much that it was very helpful. Now, the last time we're uplifting the organization of this work, the Governing Body is coming closer to work and closer to work and putting people in the nursing business. But it is my opinion that we may have put too much power into the past, to preserve the seas, to ensure that we are following the laws and regulations on how to enforce the seas. At some point, we may have become accustomed to it and to becoming experts in the maintenance of oceans. Too small a power went to map the power of the seawaters. Another thing I could mention is that up ahead is the last invitation by the Federal Bank, which marks a turning point in the African part of the country. Meetings with demands held at the end of the last year also gave our experts insight into what expectations there are. All of this helps us to shape a comprehensive program because it is true that we need a comprehensive plan that will address all the causes of this situation. I don't want to think of us as being confronted with a choice to either control or to earn a lot of money from the past, i.e. that we have suffered when we cannot find a way to decommission them, that is, to make a lot of money, that's not the job. It's much more about stability. The economic stability that has developed here in recent years, and we're not changing the seas and stability, but just protecting the stability at the same time that the oceans are disappearing. This will happen in steps, but I've, as I've said before, believe that a big step soon can be taken on the basis of the work in the Council of Control. There have never been more people in full - time service to develop the solutions we will need to be tested in the months ahead than today. I want to make it clear in this discussion that I have always supported good consultations between groups since I was in a position of government. This may have been the main reason why we opposed the case at the time referred to here that the government was completely in the dark and could not understand why the oceans were being tightened. We were opposed to tightening our heads at a time when we thought we should have relieved them, one reason is that the government's opposition was completely in the dark. [[Up front.]] It shall be said here that I support continued consultation on the political grounds that have a valid basis for it. Even though a small hiccup has recently arrived at that work, my mind is moved to maintain it and to ensure the utmost solidarity of the steps that will take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u20	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to exchange words on this huge case. I want to use this opportunity and to reiterate what I've said in the past in discussions about these matters, that as soon as the project is large, it's very important that we achieve a solidarity over the steps that need to be taken. This need to include that delinquency does not cause general failure for the public in the country. I think there must be one of the goals in this work. Although it is true that the oceans may be removed in some step, it is important to keep the overall picture under control, and so it is very important that we maintain a solid hold of the methodology selected, regardless of what it may become. This has also been the subject of forced contracts, and this has also been a talk about eviction taxes, which I have always been able to be the way in which this case needs to be handled. But part of our ability to face this issue is that the people of the country and the General of the United States are fully informed because we may find ourselves in a situation where we have to make decisions with shame in our own eyes, and it is urgent that we can meet up with them. Of course, there is hope that we will make up all the conflicting statements made that have been made and have been made, including the question marks. The adverb, who announced at the beginning of this government cooperation that a new program of execution would be implemented. It was to be introduced in September 2013, not September 2014. It was noted earlier that there was now a total plan. I understand the problem as if we're still working under the old strategy set up in 2011, unless it is in such a way that no plans are being worked. I think it's important to have confirmation that we're working under the strategy adopted in 2011, and the new plan did not really seem to have seen the day, even though there have been many statements made about something else. I welcome the highest words. A minister for the continuation of parapolitic partnerships, but he will follow through in my second act.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u21	A respectable president. I must admit that I have become a bit confused by various declarations of delinquency, that measures of delinquency will be introduced before or after a weekend, this has become such a recurring theme in the discussion of the oceans. You've become a little long - eyesed by simply seeing what your plans are. If man does not have his plans, then repeated statements that he is coming should be stopped. On the other hand, I find a lot of emphasis. The secretary of finance in the debate on execution was very good. I can agree with that. I have felt very important that this is clearly in my mind. The secretary of finance that we are about to decommission, we are not about to try to make money, the task is to eliminate capital transport and establish a free market economy, free capital transport in Iceland. At the same time, we will maintain stability, and we must create this process in such a way that we will gain confidence in the Icelandic economy. All of this needs to be clear. This is not a process in which we are going to try to use the opportunity to strike on foreign demands or to answer for what the Icelandic nation needed to pass over in the collapse, or to get 300 billion somehow in the Secret Bank, which we can spend at the same time in politics. It's not a process about it. Regarding the idea that we will make a lot of money in this, I encourage people to ask themselves: Will it stand in front of foreign courts to become the obvious object of the learning here? What is the difference between removing 300 billion from these funds that are not in the economy right now and simply printing this money and putting it into the economy with obvious economic consequences? So I'm glad to have the highest goals in mind. Secretary of the budget is clear. [[The president calls.]] I think there's more harmony between the highest. Secretary of finance and the minorities of Congress, but between the secretary of finance and the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years for starting this discussion. In fact, I'm happy and think it's very important that we have the opportunity to bring out the most important factors in this urgent assignment in this nation's great and important interest issues. Yes, the aims are clear; to establish a free flow of capital but at the same time to maintain stability. This, of course, would include the arrangement that is so important and that I can feel the part of it. Senators are here to support harmony. But I haven't, as it turned out before. venerator, experienced any ring at this job, of course, there are a lot of people who have the case and many things that need to be done together. The minister of finance went very well in his talk. On the contrary, I have experienced that the government has worked in an orderly way to solve this work by means of the administration of the most skilled experts and advisers, locals and foreigns, and so forth have been organized professional steps ever since. In November 2013, the prime minister appointed a group of counselors to be released. Like I said, it went to the highest. The secretary of finance in his talk carefully over this process and the integration of the work and the consultation with members of Congress, which I agree with, is very important in the next steps taken. But so far, government leaders have carefully spoken, and the government has taken decisive and decisive steps toward delinquency, which is the most important thing for the entire nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u23	Mr. President. I think it's the best. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister is playing this very well. He's doing it professionally, he's doing it out of carefulness. He's not getting stuck in that we should just do it somehow. No. This will only be done if it is within the framework of the rest. paritaprevir According to Árnason the Baptizer, success in coping, yet, as at the highest. Secretary of the budget is calling, within the framework of stability. This stability means that only a certain amount of money can be taken out of the country. If you can't jump through that circle, it won't be finished. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is very tight in this place, it's a negotiation process, indirectly a negotiation process, it's a game of poker that's going on. Of course, the demands are for the most part to be taken out of the country, but the secretary of finance has made a permanent effort, only within the framework of stability, that is very important. Then, too, we have to look for 60 billion to be elected into the campaign hall of the Future Party, which is to be taken out of this swelling farm through taxes. This will be done in the next three years. Of course, it creates a problem with this process. If you're going to finish this business, you have to somehow get that money in so that you can share it with the people of the country. Of course, it causes a measure of discomfort in the whole process. If that's true, as a matter of course. paritaprevir The annual report by Páll Árnason says that this cost 80 billion a year in lost currency is the total loss of 80 billion. How is the process greatly delayed by the campaign campaign campaign campaign program? That's something we should look to if 80 billion a year are being lost in currency income. These promises cost, and this clearly affects the deduction process, but it's very good at it. The secretary of finance is on a professional project to map the whole process and the contract status and state state position regarding not being legalized, etc. and make sure that this head will be removed only within the framework of stability. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u24	A respectable president. I have to say, just as it is, I was a little surprised to hear the highest. According to a minister, the opposition was in darkness during the last term, on March 12, 2012, when it was decided to drop the swellings below the head. There are, of course, no space sciences. Everything was meant to be within the sea that affected the outflow of capital here and their deduction. The groups now made up of the government have not shown this by their actions so that they take this case in a special way, and this is part of their history, i.e. They have not trusted in their efforts to put up swelling under the head. The independent party preferred it directly, and the forwardness was passed, so humans cannot handle it that much. The biggest thing I find difficult to do here is that huge funds and possessions will change in all of this process, including banks, holding banks, and I feel that we need to discuss how it will be done. That's why it's important. paritaprevir In his speech earlier, Páll Árnason said that the process is as beneficial as possible because we Icelanders have a bitter experience when political groups come up with personal banking, selling property, or having something to do with such big possessions. We have a complete knock to show the consequences of this. Hence, it is important that we have everything on the table of these things, and we must begin to discuss how we see it happen. Finally, I'd like to mention that we also need to discuss what happens then, and I miss the discussion on the part of the highest level. Secretary of finance. It's supposed to be off, but what money policy are you going to run? All that has been demonstrated in this regard is the idea of shutting down the euro route. Nothing else has been shown to us, but you can't take it unless you know what you're going to do next. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u25	A respectable president. For over 1,100 years of living in this country, we have enjoyed the free flow of funding, likely for 1,015 years. For 60 years, we lived in the head of currency and then again for the seven years since collapse. The currency rights now involved are due only to stability. The swellings of the fallen banks contain, strangely some, the Icelandic state merely a small party, only as a claimant. Therefore, this situation is very difficult, that the Icelandic state does not get involved in it in such a way that it will lead to a lawsuit and it will continue to be a snare. The swellings are special. Chapter 2 is a so - called snowpant, which is the product of growth trading in 2008. It stands in the United States. But once again, I say, in order to maintain stability in gangs, and thereby, changing prices, must be extremely careful. It must be agreed with the remuneration requirements of property, particularly in the domestic part, in order to allow this to be done on the demands of foreign property, which are, in fact, the only valuables in these areas. The properties of the swollen population can never be viewed as some kind of taxation factor. I'm inclined to believe that it's dangerous to expect an exfil tax to be different from it's going to be a long litigation. This issue, however, needs to be carefully stepped to the ground, and the transparency must be readily available. [[The president calls.]] At times, people have to hold hands, not show their cards. [[The president calls.]] That's what they're trying to do to preserve stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u26	A respectable president. Earlier, it was the highest. Minister to work on a whole plan. We may find answers to what schedule is then being worked out today. Just a year ago, that was true of the highest level. The secretary of finance to work was hard to develop a plan on how to get to the next location in the process and actually said so the highest. The prime minister of February 2014, because this has been discussed at the highest level. Ministers spoke with caution, that there would be a plan, but it would not be published, and it would be kept more secret. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether to agree with that statement. The prime minister of February 2014, but he also wants to reiterate, because there has been an active group in which representatives of the government stand and government parties have served together, that I feel that if they are going to work some plan to take part, they will all be involved, that this is not just the project of the government that will be presented in any way. Otherwise, not all of us can be responsible for that plan. The plan is the responsibility of the government if it's made entirely by it. It was also seen by the highest. Councilmen in the past that they had run into the thread or something like that in the group's work, and certainly it's true. No meeting has been received in this transboundary group since early December. Meanwhile, reports of media developments, such as the order of yet another committee that has a project related to financial decommissionation have been submitted to offer some kind of possession exchange to pay the street of emergency agreements, and I think it is very important that I clean up whether this agreement is continued, whether it is serious, and whether it is intended here to be involved in the modeling of this new plan, which has been in almost the entire term, as it has been established. It's almost certain that either one of us will be involved, and then it's a serious agreement, otherwise the government is just responsible for this case. I think that's the most successful thing in view of the size of the case and the interests that are so great for everyone that we're doing this together. [[The president calls.]] That's the way it goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u27	A respectable president. I prefer to believe that the highest. Secretary of finance was well aware of the importance of the formation of this massive political controversy. She just has to be there. Consider an example. If the decision is made to put on an outlet tax that leads to a conclusion that we want to lighten the pressure of this process by becoming an eviction tax, we must have a very strong political bone in it. Exploitation tax has to be equal to everyone. Not only will he be put on the demands, he'll be put on the pension fund as well as anyone who has to remove money from the economy. There must be a parapolitic agreement that it is okay because otherwise this tax will be a sore bone here in loss and years. I doubt, and I agree with those who have held it up, that it turns out that such a tax will be a means of earning money for a government fund. I'm not sure that we would stand before the courts as a legal reason for this tax, that we're going to try to make money on all of this. There are many temptations here in this room and elsewhere, trying to make a lot of money on the eviction tax or other means of execution. Such temptations need to be avoided, and this presents a clear example of political solidarity and conversation. I mention the only way in which this has been mentioned, the way of decommissioning, and it's obvious that it requires political solidarity, and I'm impressed. Minister to focus on creating it. Of course, we need to look at the bigger picture and in the long run. It's not just about done. In fact, I'm beginning to think that the construction of the farms is kind of the easiest thing to do. Then there is the need for investment by Icelanders, local people, abroad, for decades, for the pension fund, for others, and we need to ask ourselves: " Do we have a currency in this country that will withstand the pressure of the decades? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u28	A respectable president. The signature of this discussion is a currency head. A verbal vendetta is a whale. paritaprevir A Árni Páll Árnason, former economic and commercial minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. Their government and their minister were unable to complete their task of removing the capital heads, although they may not have lacked the will to do the work. Why would it have taken so long? Hv. A candidate has called for consultation on the part of the current government, yet he has personally been on the Committee to Reconservation in which members of all councils sit. In the decommissionment committee, we have received introductions on progress and the preparatory work being carried out there. We've been given to ask national and foreign experts and counselors who are working to prepare for the next step in decommissionation. Unfortunately, the national interests and demands do not always go together. Of course, demands that most people have bought into this position want to maximise their profits, but since national currency is final size, no one can respond to their demands unless he reduces the standard of living in the country for years to come. I've heard of members of the Parliament here that there's no way that there's no way. It is important to remember that the demands of the fallen bank are high, not on government funds. These fallen banks are Icelandic cables that are closed up within a capital crisis like everyone else in this country. The demanding goats have wished to take their money outside the seas before anyone else in this country. There is only enough currency in the country to satisfy it, and the payoff of the coming years will be sufficient unless demands are made by the demands. The government's challenge is to solve capital capital problems and to protect the equality in that process as well as not to be at national expense and to live in the country. Here, it is vital that we do well. And as the builders say, saying twice is the most important thing, because one can only be told.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u29	President. I'd like to start by celebrating what's been said in the grandest case. The secretary of finance on increasing information flows and cooperation on what we will do after the removal of the oceans. I think it's as important as I hope that the cooperation that has been offered here includes it too. It is long time for us as the Generals, special members of Parliament, to start thinking about the future for longer than the next four years. It is unbearable to see that good work is merely brought up because the right people did not come through that work. I'd like to encourage the highest. Secretary of finance to have the basis for cooperation on these matters at the council. I think it's very important in the long term for everyone. Of course, we're here at the General for all the Americans, not just for our districts, our divisions, or our neighborhood. This is a huge deal. As we have seen, it is important that we work with total interest in the future. I have no doubt that this is the ultimate goal. Secretary of finance. But it is also very important that in this process, what can be called supervised does not occur. He insists that the person taking the group thinks he's the only one who can solve it. Here, it's important that we do what we had to do when we had to handle Icesave in court, that we all work hard together. It will have far better results for the future of our country and for all of us here. Then, hopefully, we'll sleep very well at night if we succeed in doing this in the proper way without going out here... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. First, for word's sake. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, I'd like to say there's no need to have anything to do with me or the last government before our march into decommission. The strategy that was implemented in my 2011 economic Ministry is the same as the one that has been working for nearly two years in the history of this government. She hasn't turned one letter hook into that plan. That, of course, is a great declaration of confidence in the proposed procedure. I'm celebrating the declaration. A minister of consultations I believe is essential to a solution. He said that the fragments couldn't have come up with a solution, that's what had taken over. We cannot accept that. We must agree that they will not accept the speed they set for this work or that it will set the schedule, but consultations must include serious agreements. That's what he knows from his last term, and he's fine with it. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir here referred to the consultation on Icesave in the conduct of the defense. They succeeded because they did not arrive at the cooked kerosene. All representatives of the government were allowed to participate in the molding of the stand. It is not a consultation to make meetings and introduce decisions that have already been made. That is why it is fundamental if we want a general political agreement on this project that we meet together to shape our stand. I would also like to emphasize the importance of transparency and general guidelines in this subject. In accordance with the nature of the case, in view of the way these classes exercised the authority they could gain from the personalization of banks at their time, when the pavilions were given key economic facilities, there is suspicion in the community. It is only natural to meet her by doing this as openly as possible and to reduce fear of partyed vultures over which now is, and perhaps there is not necessarily anything better than foreign vultures. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u31	Mr. President. It's been all a nice talk, but it may have been over the years after the collapse to say that I don't think that it was just the government possession that was in a certain darkness, all of us in a certain darkness. For example, we did not realize how much pressure was put on the Icelandic crown right after the oceans. [[Up front.]] Initially, it was assumed that we were primarily dealing with the defamatory machine of several hundred billion. It was the snowbolt we discussed, which was the main reason the case was set out in the first place. Then over a period of time, you realize that within the country, there are unfunded commitments needed to deal with and that the currency, as you look at the stock market, will not be enough to pay out the requirements of the demands. This has changed everything. So, what plan is being worked out? Of course, we're working on the strategy set up right after the crash, but we've had to make adjustments and adapt as the situation has clarified. I'd like to emphasize that the work I'm referring to being done in the management system is primarily expert work. This is not some political activity in which people wonder what political methodology is most beneficial. We're trying to map the problem with the help of experts, e.g. by identifying exactly how the credit balance looks, how it is predicted for the next year, what legal factors must be included, when all choices are taken on the table, from those who have been mentioned here, such as the tax, and into the bankruptcy route. The map line has been charted, especially because it may be the one who is already written in the law. We know what the law says, but we need to know exactly what it is. All these advantages have been examined. So it's mainly professional work that is being done in the management system, and there was a lot of effort to explain the picture so that we are faced with options that have been fully investigated. [[The president calls.]] I hope that in the political framework of consultation they can be introduced on the basis of this work over the next few weeks and months. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u32	V.E.G. President. I've come up here to correct the words that happened to me in an interview last night. paritaprevir "Oddný G. Harðardóttir" I said that songing on the back of the back of the truck would be for an investigation at ESA. That's not true. I got it all together. What we're looking at at at at the ESA is an electrical contract for the Backside, not because of the backwaters. It was all agreed on by ESA in March of last year. In view of the importance of this discussion, I think it is important to be correct, so I want to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u33	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the Interior for coming here and correcting his case since yesterday. I think it's a good example for a minister to do that, and I'm sure I could do it more often and have happened. I'm only going through this bill to legalize the European Commission's legislation, with subsequent changes, on planning schemes and institutions. We were discussing it last week, and a number of things came out. As mentioned, I am pleased to see that at the outset, the changes that the bill involves before specific aspects of its contents and laws begin to be discussed. It is good to quickly discern what this is all about and then to be seen in much more cases. I think those who put together and write bills could imitate it. I'd like to start by talking about 1st bit. There is a requirement taken that a minister can determine the location of an institution under which he is or she will not be recommended in any other manner of law. It is presented here that the law may have accidentally failed when the Law was reviewed in 2011. I'm not sure. In fact, I have more faith that people in general did not feel the need to keep the law inside, but they do not. At least there has been no reason for the last government to add it back or correct, as it seems to be suggested. I feel like I'm giving a minister a lot of information. He is spoken of as a common source of authority to determine the location of the institutions that are under his direction. While it is stated that the Council can, of course, legally conclude that institutions should be located in a designated location, it is still that the secretary can do the same, accomplish this as well. It further states in this article that it may be desirable to establish general standards of change due to the establishment of the staff's positions and rights and to determine if such criteria should be published. This is what I feel very open, whether it's desirable or possibly it is. I think that there must always be the rights and responsibilities of the workers in these changes and that the Regulation should, in effect, be put together with this legislation so that it is absolutely clear. There has been some discussion in this context regarding the transfer of a particular agency to Akureyri. I have nothing to say in itself but that I believe that the authority to transfer entire institutions to or from them can be very costly for the State and not necessarily based on professional opinion but really is, as shown in the past, only to the minister's decision. Away from all that has been discussed, whether in the case of professionalism, humanism, or so forth, there is a danger that it can happen again as it has once happened, and now it does. So I don't feel that such a warrant should be in this law. I think that it should always be committed to the Council to take up institutions and transport them. It's a lot of cost that comes with this particular example, but as I say, I'm not going to discuss that institution, Iceland's Fish Office and its transport. I think he's showing and proving that there's a frame around something that's been done. I feel that carrying out the transport in this way brings some bad reputation to the country. I'm not following a certain Ministerhood, either, to draw in more authority, as if this bill were a sign. So I finished this with Fish Room, I also made it clear that the Eyll, the Eyjafjörður Union, and the Þingar Countys, had an excellent report on the issues that were relevant to them. to transport Fish Room over a period of five years. It would have been better for success, as well as better for people's attitude toward public transport. We know that public employment has taken a considerable measure. During the time that both the last government and the current government have been working, public jobs in the country have declined and one of these types has been dropped to some point where the problem is not solved. I think we're supposed to think of these matters in a bigger context and look ahead. I can give you a number of examples of this. We went to the Work Office, Marine Research Institute, a credit agent in Akureyri who worked very well and worked hard and well for those matters that were there, but for some reason the country needs to bleed at the time of cutting down. If we can say so, we can prevent the very first decision at all, as it were, from cutting down their branches. I think there's another way we can affect it. It can also be said that the annual work that has been done in the country is much in health care and a lot of work done by women. We need to look at things in a much larger context than they do here. I don't like the idea of a minister having almost one to say. I'd like to talk about two articles together, since it refers to a minister's need or is only under obligation to report important issues at a government meeting when two or more ministers present together at such meetings with members of the management system or outside. Hence, the law does not include meetings where ministers alone represent the government, even though they are the most frequent. It is said that the interests of the government are not in getting information about all meetings but only about important meetings. So it is the minister's decision to decide what is important to his colleagues and not to others. There is also the obligation of the Minister to present important administrative matters in the government, but as I say, it is up to a minister what he believes is important to him. This is something special, because in the 4th. it is suggested that, in the context of the Ministry and the registration of information and what to record and what to not, instead of the obligatory obligation to register formal relations, be obliged to document important communications in the meeting. Once again, the evaluation of what is important is thought - provoking. The Enlightenment Act is quoted to sharpen the obligation of other governments to provide important information, and, of course, it is under way to give a witness in the government. In the 10th. Turns the article to the Management Board itself, which says that they should record all their interactions with people outside the administration and that they should record oral information, communication with meetings or conversations, they should have the same significance as written information. I find that strange in view of what is specifically mentioned in comments on Article 4. There is a witness to the then president of the General and Education Committee at Council of 139, which says that it is reasonable that ministers and departments can communicate on the march or on the phone and the like without having it recorded. I think it's quite normal, but I think it's unnatural that all such contact with parties outside the board should be recorded. Why is this not the same when it is spoken of in the form of transparency? Notes on 6. Talks about the internal organization of the advisers, and it seems to me that it is best for me to reduce the number of so - called administrative institutions and to create operations within the Ministry or some government agency. I'm on a universal educational and educational committee and they're creating such an institution called the National Institute of Education by uniting the Research Institute and Study Assessment Institute. These are different institutions and not necessarily unity. It is united with the institutions and made them a administrative unit that has not been controlled, but is expected to be professional, which I find in this article. Projects are said to have moved from councilors to the institutions of the past few years, and committees have increased. I can totally agree that the decision-making committees can be reduced and only through it. I sit in a group on consumers business, and much of it is discussed in decision - making institutions. I can accept that they can be reduced and no doubt some administrative agency. I'm not gonna make anything out of it. However, I am concerned with the tendency to withdraw everything into the Ministry and ponder over this length in many cases and what I feel is suggested here, that people believe that it is possible to create within the Ministry, despite having it within the door. It also speaks of a shaped legislation of the rights for which administrative committees are entitled. It is said that there are committees in the Board of Directors, and I would like to know which institutions to watch. The same report on 6th. The issue of whether to make such a move is quoted again by this committee of directors where the state's strengths and weaknesses are being identified. When can we see that conclusion? Will it be returned in any way, or is it for the Ministry or Council? Are changes to be expected as a result? Presumably, the committee is not merely at work to be at work, to give the minister some ideas. I see my time here is getting shorter and I'm just getting started. The management of the cases in the Agency, and then I'm talking about the length of arm I mentioned earlier, what I don't think sounds right, is that there should be special operations within the Ministry, and it's here considered sufficient to meet the views that have been left by a ruling committee at this distance. It is also said that even a special administrative committee can be established. I'd like to hear from the highest. A minister when he closes this issue, whether he sees in the vision of a special administrative court, replaces some ruling committees, and who he would prefer to replace. A respectable president. I have to give a second speech, for I have to follow the decision of the Allied Research Committee, I have rules and many other things. I have to do this in my first speech and ask that I be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u34	V.E.G. President. Over the past few years, there has been a certain leak of activity to the capital area by the government in the name of economics, unity, etc. The clay has become so stable and long lasting that we see it as normal. The Senator discussed the transfer of a Fish Room to Akureyri and said that some form of professional assessment of the transfer of the institutions had to be made. So I'd like to ask the senator how to make a professional assessment of the transport of the institutions from the capital area to the country or vice versa. As the senator also mentioned, a Watchtower Study is being conducted in a Southwestern district in the city of Reykjavík. It's based on no particular professional opinion. But I'd like to ask the senator: "What can... [[Up front.]] It's not the same thing. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, this is from Reykjavík, from the City Bank in Kopavog, where the National Research Centre is. What can a professional assessment of the transport of the institutions be based on?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u35	A respectable president. Yeah, I took this example earlier, and I agree. A senator that this leak of duty to the capital area is intolerable, we can agree on that. For example, regarding professional considerations, we saw in the Fisk Office that it is just a tough, smart decision made by a minister who seems to have consulted with others as to what it means. Are we dead? Of course I know we'd all like to stay where we're and reluctant to move around and all that. But they need to be joined by people who know about the party, have experience or something like that, they don't necessarily need to be staff to the institution, not at all. But like a dog. A senator mentioned earlier regarding the two organizations that are being merged, may be run between, and may not have to move, even though they are going up to the Apostolia, but they can certainly disturb something, they have also been seen, and objections have treated it. Therefore, I would say that if this were to happen to the Generals, I would say that a bill would be submitted by the Minister on behalf of a certain agency would move somewhere, it would be sent to a discussion here, there would be a review to the local authorities who might have something to say about the cause of the institution. It's not the staff themselves, it's the Agency's business, who's involved? Moving may be a good conclusion, and it usually takes something to move. That may be what I mean by that when I'm talking about professional food instead of a single decision made by some minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u36	V.E.G. President. The level of education of the Icelanders has increased, transport too, and together with a technical revolution, I think, everywhere in Iceland, capable of accepting institutions here and there. What I meant with my question: How do we measure professionally whether Fishing Room is to be in Akureyri, Hafnarfjörður, Cape, or anywhere else? Is there a professional evaluation that tells you where an institution in Iceland is supposed to be? I don't think it's like that. We take this leak for granted to the capital area, and we view it as a normal structure in the capital area. That's why I want to ask the senator again, because I don't feel that she answers the question, "Can we somehow build a professional assessment of where an institution should be, regardless of where it is when someone is going to look at it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u37	A respectable president. I agree that education has increased in some places but because we were dealing with education, so I'm going to get into everything else, where education is at the lowest or in the country. There have, of course, been improved in many places and in all of that. The settlement is very well prepared in most parts of the country, I don't make it small, and I haven't said anything about whether I'm in favor or opposed to the particular establishments that were taking place here, because I don't think it's just about that particular institution. I think it's about a Minister, whoever he is every time, he can decide to transfer an institution somewhere. As I said before, and I find it very convincing to have people in contact with a particular institution, having to do with her everyday cooperation or monthly cooperation or how it's done at this time, they are not the employees of the Agency - we can keep the people who, of course, would like to be in their place where it is, most of whom I expect -- that then we will get the expected reviews of a very many people who are relevant to the institution. I think that could lead to our forming a professional opinion, senators, and others who came to that decision. And there would be great and conflicting views on that matter. It would be evident that, whatever the Agency may be, it would be difficult to move someone else rather than sit on it. We remember when the field service was performed on Aranesp. There's headquarters in the country, it's not like it hasn't happened before, it's just been good and it's not been a problem. But it doesn't change that I think we're supposed to be careful with the administrations around it, and I don't think this is the way to get control of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech. I wanted to ask her further about what is involved in the transport of the Fish Room, which was here a little for last year's discussion, but I understand that it has been postponed or cut off, or whatever the case may be. I'd like to ask you what. A senator made this statement simply because she is a member of the district council, whether the matter was discussed with members of the Northern Eastern Cathedral during the preparatory phase and before it was announced as the official decision of the government. In what way was the discussion of this issue in the northern part of the community? Then I'd like to ask about the bill that lies here a year ago after these ideas came along. Are these the changes necessary to make plans, such as the transport of Fishing Room? Was not the transfer permitted to validate laws when the declarations that have now been made, which have been suspended, or postponed, or whatever the case now stands for the government? Like many other factors, it is on a blunder. Finally, I'd like to ask about this 3 billion. K., if I recall the sum correctly, which the advance party declared should pay anyone willing to move north. Because of what? A senator sits on a budget committee, on which sources do they provide financial resources? What discussion was given on the budget board, i.e. On the basis of relevant financial sources, etc. and the preparation for that decision and declaration?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u39	A respectable president. This matter was not discussed in the council of the Northeast Council, and in itself I feel no reason to do so. It's not just our business, it's about a lot more people. It surprises me, and I hadn't heard that the transfer had been postponed or that I had decided not to let it happen. I would have liked to go this way because I'm a Fishing Room quite able to live in Akureyri. There's nothing about it. I testify again that the Council of EI made a careful report, one of which turned to Fish Room, and it was ordered to be moved over a five - year period. However, it is the methodology that I criticize, that is what I criticize in this bill. I discussed earlier that I did not feel that it was a professional thing to do in such a way. No, I think it's exactly what they're trying to do here, to scratch the tray, that the transfer wasn't domestic by the current law, and that's why they're building a frame around the case. In terms of the budgets, as we talked a great deal about in the budget, money was being cut out from here to there, moving between sides, and even developing joints to meet the 205 billion people. K. 215 million. K. expenses involved in transporting Fish Room. So there was nothing specific, just a announcement from the government that this is how she approved the case. In fact, the expense reports were just moving between the various sectors, and then there was something in Fishing Room, too, to cover the cost. I'll say it like another dog. A senator earlier, there was nothing to bribe people to move to Akureyri... [[The president calls.]] So I thought it would take the discussion down rather than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. It is all too surprising, then, that the government is making a statement about a large decision like this, not just that it makes its employees as hard as it was, but that the case was so ill - prepared that they did not understand the lack of legal rights to do what they declared and that they had not even made arrangements to have available the funds that they had since then needed to finance the relics they tried to follow with some assurances that were left behind. For this reason, I just wanted to emphasize that this is an excellent reminder of why we need to be disciplined and put in the frames in which the Council operates because there are, unfortunately, too many releases and so many cases too badly prepared. I wanted my second answer on the inside. A senator according to what has been called upon to register the relations of a minister, whether it is of utmost importance to attach these regulations firmly down, especially in the light of the opinion we received from the Council's agent for the weekend, and showed a lack of contact with a minister of his foundation manager who, unfortunately, does not appear to exist on record. The subject of conversation is not available at the highest level. However, a minister to his submate who was in the case of investigating the minister, there is no overview of the telephone between them, when they went in between, when they were conducted, how long they were, how many were, and so on. Is it not yet another reminder that there is reason to tighten the frame of...? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u41	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator regarding the export of the stocks into the country, that they should be in this way, and that the frame has not been clear enough. Now questions have been received from what source. paritaprevir The Björn by Valur Gíslason that no institutions will be exported to land in all our councils, does not exist, so I don't know if this is to be an isolated case for this government. Of course, one might ask, " Why do I have to do this?'But maybe this particular organization should be moved alone. I also realize this and agree with what has been said about public work stopping too short in the country. They are often cut off first, as I said in my speech earlier, rather than trying to prevent them, as if a decision on financial contributions to the Labour Office or Matis or whatever it is now that leads to the deeming of monopolis or two persons at some point. The number of jobs in this capital area is much lower. I don't mean to say anything because it's cut down here too. But this is a wealthy garden, at least much more than in many parts of the country at the time of work. With the code of ethics, I came into it earlier. I find it very dangerous that ministers need less communication, and they record almost just what they think is proper, not two-man talk or something like that. This was evident right now. I agree with what. Senator, I'm beginning to conclude that we should increase the employee registration in terms of this rather than the other. However, it is emphasized that communication is recorded, not within the communities, but in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u42	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, a bill to the highest level. Prime Minister contributes. Maybe it's best to start by saying what I'm not gonna talk about. I'm not going to do a special piece of 4. The bill that deals with the registration of communication, and I'm not going to do a special discussion on 8 st. which deals with ethics, but the U.S. Marshal's agent introduced both these factors as well as the role of assistants in his opinion due to the communication between the former secretary of state and the former sheriff of the capital area. He has been asked to do so, and his meeting with a board of administration and monitoring committee showed that these matters will be specifically reviewed. I know that the committee intends to do so, for this is going to be a case to the management and monitoring committee, of course she will review these matters in that light. There are three things I would like to discuss today. That's 1st. ......................................................................................................................... That's 6. That's at least the meaning of this bill, and then the b-part ten. ..about uninterrupted personnel transfers. So we start with a 1. which is now the main event, with prime minister requesting that the council give the government's counsellers the authority to determine the establishment under which they are hearing, unless the law is otherwise recommended. Of course, everyone knows that this is a shot of improvement under the Supreme Decision. Agricultural and marine leader, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson of Joni, who was planning to transfer Fish Room with man and mouse from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri without applying for that particular legal authority. And instead of applying for legal advice for Fish Labs, the law is merely to be changed in its entirety, thereby providing a desire for ministers in order to transport organizations freely. There was once permission to transfer agencies freely, but in the court of the Supreme Court in what is called the Land survey, the Supreme Court concluded that a minister was not authorized to move an institution without a legal warrant. The Supreme Court thus interpreted the law and judged it as the Council that should determine the location of the institutions. Would not a direct order from the Council in the form of law there be assumed to be their home in Reykjavík, the end of the country's capital city. This was changed to the court, but with a review of the law, which worked on the best rules and traditions of the administrations, and the warrant was canceled, it became back in the hands of the Generals to determine the location of the institutions. Does not the International Assembly directly agree that they should be in the capital. I see no reason to change this. Organizations are like other things, they vary, but they differ. Some are very formal, but others have different purposes depending on different times, and various viewpoints can determine where to put institutions. It is only natural that we continue to do so, so big decisions are made by members of the council who are elected by voters rather than in smoke - filled back rooms. Of course, this case has come to pass in the case of Fish Room, but I have to say that northwestern committee suggestions also raise a lot of suspicion in this context. I feel that the prime minister should reveal the suggestions if he has developed this bill, so we know what's in the cards. We've been able to read in the news that the Ministers of the Independence Party were not pleased, and we've been told that these are referred to as Richard and the Marine Department. Whether there's anything more involved, I don't know, but to reduce suspicion on this bill, I suggest that the prime minister submit the suggestions. However, it should be noted that the law had been changed in accordance with the highest will. Prime Ministers and if the Ministers of Independence had been pleased with the suggestions made by the northwest committee, they could have done so and could have determined between how they wanted to organize institutions into different rural areas. I don't think it's a method of thinking people today, and I trust that this law will not be a law. Then we'll get to 6. There the prime minister wishes that we give him permission to set up specific tasks, institutions that operate as part of the Ministry. A certain official directs such operations in the sense of law on the rights and duties of the officers of the state under the management of the Ministry. Then you start to look at comments in the article. Then, Volume 7 of the report by the World Council of Research, which includes the need to strengthen the Ministry and to be educated. Because of their weakness and ill - equipped to cope with more and more complex administrative projects. This will be solved by the government's making up special agencies within the council. I would like to point out that the last government following this report went to a great deal of work and new laws on the Council of Government include: The results of that work. It was up to strengthen the Ministry to the extent possible in terms of economic circumstances. As they grew older, they tried to strengthen them to the best of their ability. I find it unscrupulous, Mr. President, to come here and quote a report from the NTSB and say that this amazing law is in its spirit, when the government does something very different about us. What has the government done? She's actually replaced her budget. Well, the Ministry is now not only having two ministers, which could be normal in some circumstances, but a vast number of cases under which many professionals have waited for years to be united in one Ministry, in fact, have been replaced. It's still known as the Ministry of Health and Professional Residents, but there's a new ministry within these larger units, so it's totally in opposition to the ideas of strengthening and strengthening the Council of Government. This is actually weakening it to put more advisers in place and, in the spirit of a recall, to abandon the course of the former government. But it's not enough, and now I'm going to step on something very serious. In 2014 the budget was presented with a financial bill. They included more and less reinvestments for all government institutions, as is said to be different and in various ways, but all the main agencies of the advisers were organized. This is totally normal when the EICs are required to take their share. What happened, though, between discussions? There was an additional cutoff at 5%. It's impossible to hear anything, Mr. President. It was a worthwhile decision, and what was it for? This was to give the management department a clear message that if the funding authority didn't like something, it would not hesitate to use the criminal punishment of the budget. There was a message to the government that people would be sticking to the mat. In case of need, the funds would be unashamed. If this is to be cut down at the Iceland Commission, which is completely normal under various circumstances, it is to be done in a financial bill rather than in the middle of a discussion. What happened after Iceland's Council of Management was reduced by 1/20 without any support? Of course they did. Many people were laid off in the administrations without knowing why this was done in this way, and of course they weakened the administration. I want to express strongly opposition to these changes, but I also want to express support for those things if men and women want to strengthen the administrative departments that are normal and must be done with more money in the current budget but not by creating some mymines inside the councils to put some new rulers over. I'm going to finish my case in just the personnel business, because this is a violation of government law and, as a result, they're being changed. According to the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, there is a law that I don't know whether it was a novel in the current law, I haven't learned it, that it is permitted to transfer employees between untimely recruitments, as it were, have been hired by the advertisements. There's a right to transfer them between recruitment agreements between both Ministers for the transfer and the employee himself. This was to improve the potential of people in the administrations to continue working, to gain more experience, and to hold on to the human resources that had been trained, since it takes time to become a good official, and to be a valuable man - made man. But I didn't realize that with this change, it should go so far, I was just realizing it. Now it is stated that it is not only allowed to transfer workers between recruitment but also between the government, to accept the transfer, and to the employee himself. So if there is now a release by the Ministry, the minister may decide and the employee working at some government authority that he is going to do that job without advertising. If I have time to give another speech, I'll go over exactly what BHM has to say about this sort of monkey and snake game, but I think it's clear that I don't support the bill, and I hope that much of the motion will be released and the ones that will be used will be corrected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We've discussed quite a few things about which a minister is given the bill by law. I agree with what. A senator, I hope that it will not be realized that any institutions, whatever they may be, and whatever the minister may wish to carry them. I'd like to ask why. A senator would believe that it would change anything if these laws were to be put together on how to handle such changes, preparations, and what is involved in the work, professional activities of the institution, and all of that. Would it have any bearing on this warrant for a Minister in case of a completely crevice rule and presented here at the same time? As I say, I'm inclined to believe that it's not good to validate the establishment of the institutions or their headquarters, but it's just being discussed here. As I spoke in my talk earlier, we could talk about and get the opinion of more people who have these subjects to do. So I ask. A senator, if she thinks it would change anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u44	Mr. President. The short answer is: No. I believe that institutions should be established because governments are important social units. They have a role. These institutions must be ruled, and it is minimally necessary to determine their location at the General Assembly. I think there's a lot of institutions in the capital area, because this is the heart of the administration. Because of their close knowledge and knowledge, they are here. Then we have institutions in other places, and there may be good reasons for having institutions elsewhere. But when you're looking solely for the basis for guidance, I suggest that it be started to cancel the existing institutions, have important functions in their community, and play an important role. Because it often wants to go to some community talk, which is shocking because we should be in a community talk on other grounds, I'm very opposed to it, I'd like to point out that the percentage of public activity is mostly in the capital area and the northern West. This ratio has declined between 2007 and 2011 but has increased in various other areas of the country. It's about how the institutions function and how they serve their community in the best way they do it. That's where we're supposed to have the main focus. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u45	A respectable president. As I said before, I think it is possible to keep my arms around the administrations without any institution having a valid location. But I agree, and I said earlier, that I find it normal to move some basic services, which play a significant role, as it were. A senator said so through the Council. Then we have a variety of other administrative institutions, which I don't think may necessarily need to get a legal location and can have the nature of the case anywhere. It may have to be some kind of flexibility. I think the lead must be very clear. If it is not available, it must go through the process we have discussed, and the council will come to it. I agree with what. A senator to see if there's anything wrong with this. The ministers of all halls have responded. paritaprevir Björn Valur, son of Gíslason, as I noted earlier, that there would be no standing to transport any organizations. In view of what happened. A senator's comment on the northwest committee is not quite correct, since prime minister seemed to have been in trouble but was not a minister of financial matters. I'd like to get to the rest, and it's about ethics, registration and information. Does the Senator agree that it should be comparable between the Ministry's staff, as if we have now received results from an agent, on the registration of conversations, and in other matters that seem to be to be reduced in this bill, which is to register all communications, on the other hand, with people in town? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u46	V.E.G. President. At first, only on the rules of moving the institutions. I'm going to declare again that I strongly believe that the lawgiver should have that authority. As noted earlier, the Supreme Court's definition of a locality was not stated in the law of the city of Reykjavík as its capital. The Lawgiver can also legally state that the Agency's location is not legally determined but should be taken into account by ◯. We can also choose to give them the authority, but it is not good for decisions that may be of great interest to be taken, and no one knows exactly why. When there is reason to move an institution, there needs to be some logical support. We are now on the welfare committee united with the agencies for disabled people. There is absolutely a lack of proper logical support and credible programmes on how the Agency should function, a very important organisation. It's not the problem, it's the main element of the Agency itself. Of course, we need to know why organizations are being brought or united. That need to be for good reasons. In terms of the code of ethics, it is naturally very important in the administration that communication between employees in a particular case is recorded and done. It should be that way in the legal records of the advisers. The same applies to phone calls related to decision-making or to decision-making in individual cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u47	A respectable president. The issue presented here is a matter of debate, which is well seen in the fact that a large number of members of the Parliament want to address this issue. It is not new. When the European Commission was adopted in 2011, there was a discussion that reminded me of less than ten days, if I recall correctly in September, in which members of the Parliament were very upset about a number of things relating to Iceland's Management Board. This is a matter of concern and importance to many. I like a lot of things on the bill and think about it, and I testify that there is a sincere willingness to improve the law of Iceland's Council of Management and to try out the experience of stopping into some gaps that the experience has revealed. On the other hand, there are articles in the bill that are completely fragmented on this face somehow. No matter what you think, this bill is very short of argument, why it should be possible to create some kind of government agency or work unit within the council, it is a good argument and was part of the 2011 debate, why it should be possible to have greater flexibility in the Council of Government and to move to employees, and it is explained. But that's 1st. It's like she's been thrown into the bill: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. This article is a very negative subject on the bill. The argument is very twisted. It's said that this was exonerated from the 2011 law and that this should be put back in. In other words, it looks like silver, but I would say that it was more logical by not keeping it in the law that this law was precisely removed from the law after three discussions at council in 2011. The removal of something in the law is rather argumentative because it should not be in the law. If we're going to go back to the law, I don't know exactly where we're gonna end up. I think this is a very strange argument for the 1st statement. ... shouldbe there. Of course, it must be supported by some physical reasoning. Why is this important? Why does a minister have to decide where an institution should be? How's that good for Iceland? How is that good for the Board of Directors? How does every standard of professional government benefit? What Is the Reason? Is this just because of the highest? Seafood and agricultural ministers and the highest. At a meeting, the prime minister expressed their desire to move Fish Room and realized that they did not have the legal authority to do so? Is that why? Is that a significant reason? Of course, that cannot be the case. The warning bells immediately began to ring this case before Christmas, when news was received that the bill was en route with this general authority to transfer organizations. I asked the highest. Prime Minister in question time before Christmas would it really be necessary to bring such open permission to minister into the council and confirm it and, if so, would it not be sure that there would be some legal obligation for the minister's authority, if a minister could decide that the institutions in the law were also needed to look to various aspects of his decision, e.g. The rights of employees. That is obvious, employees have made commitments and contracts to work in a particular place. How do you cope with changes in the entire working environment of the workers they have been experiencing? What's the strategy? How is this decision compatible with the overall plans to build up jobs in the country if this is part of it? ? What is the professional benefit in this particular field of service? A fishing room is a clear example. Certain professional structure within this institution is compromised by a very irresponsible transfer to Akureyri. The independence of the strains is a must. I asked the highest. Prime Minister whether there were no such regulations on the condition of the source. The answers were very vague. The prime minister could hear the importance of having such conditions and such things in mind, looking to them, yes, having them behind their ear, writing them on the back of an envelope, or placing yellow tickets on a wall when making such a decision. But that is not enough. It's got to be all legalized. There has to be some career. There must be a financial requirement for moving to an institution. If we are to move laws in order to provide counsellors with open sources, why don't we go further, Ministers decide where roads should lie, where schools should be employed, what would be taught in schools? Why don't the Ministers just decide the budget? Why are we carrying it into the council? Why don't we just keep going, why don't the Ministers decide the tax percentage? Is that not just some technical issue in most areas? What is the fundamental reason why a minister should suddenly decide where institutions are completely located from all conditions that might have to be proposed for such decisions? And what is the best way to discuss such a matter? Isn't that at the Council? For good reason, this open code was canceled from the law in 2011. This is because there had been a comprehensive report on a minister of violence against the General Assembly. It was considered wise to give greater authority to the Council. BHM has, among other things, come the view that the Council discussed such decisions. For example, you could write into the law. I'd like to direct it to the Committee that they write conditions, write into this bill, and the proposed laws of some career that must lay the basis for such a decision. I don't necessarily think that law must always be passed in every case where the agency should operate, but the application of the Agency, which requires careful attention to all the opinions and rights of people and families - homes - so I use that word, it's tamed - has to be written in. It might be imagined that it was put into the law that when a minister wants to move to the institutions--there may be very good reasons for that, it can be a very good idea, and sometimes it has been, I want to keep it completely in place; for example, it may be a very good idea that the Fishing Room is in Akureyri, but it must be carried in another way, do it professionally, and take care of employees' rights rights. For example, if we want to validate a career like that, men can enter the law that a minister should submit a Synod decree for the transfer of an institution and it should be taken into account a-b-c-d-e-part in his argument for the transfer. Wouldn't that be something? What would be wrong with that? Would it not be for obvious and objective reasons that the minister would have limited authority and should be considered here? One thought - provoking question in this question is: Is the right of the minister to determine the establishment of the institutions greater than the right of an employee to know where to work in the near future? What right does the minister of this have? I think this is an amazingly high I own this, I'm allowed to think about power, incredibly aggressive approach to power. This is written on an idea of the right minister to decide some things. What right does he have? We should not, for example, be bound to the fact that he ever told us about his purposes. It is not even required in this bill that the minister argues. In this regard, he is given perfect bacteria. Just as it's a good idea to move jobs to a country where it might be, such a law is a complete pattern and a variation from everything we're doing about legalization in this country and has been doing. I can't believe it's going through like this. Let's make a comparison here. I say this article must have been thrown into this bill without much discussion, just as it would have been in the future to move into organizations without much discussion. The introduction of the article in this bill illustrates how the government in the future will probably be more and less without discussion and logical support. But let's check out Unit 1 0. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. It is considered, without the publication of a job vacancy for an application, to decide that, in time, an employee will be moving for a fixed time or permanently between governments... This law is about flexibility in the operation of the Council. I like it. I would say that it would take more authority to move employees, but I'll read a little further: ...the end is due to the approval of the management director for the transfers and the employee himself. This is difficult and understandable. The employee has taken a job, had it done on a contract, and, of course, no one can just move it into without asking it. He has to agree. The director has to agree, too. He may have arranged for this fine employee to work. It's a matter of business. I think it makes sense. It is bound to certain conditions how to transfer employees from institutions. Hence, the bill is so amazing that when it comes to transporting entire institutions from part of the country, there is no need to ask questions. There is no need to ask the council. You don't have to ask the employees. The director doesn't need to be asked. That doesn't have to be reasoned. There is no need to show that it is a good, professional, save money, or a better service. The minister can only do this when he wants to. I think it's a rather serious thing to bring an article like this into the council and think it's an acceptable idea of a minister's authority, that it's acceptable to offer such an article, and that it doesn't even support it. What can this mean? Why was it written that a minister's power had to be silenced and that a more balanced relationship between the council and the Commission in the wake of the collapse? That was one of the lessons men drew from those years before a collapse. You want transparency. They want justice. You want to reduce bullying in this society. Humans do not want to create conditions for corruption and various forms of oppression. What's an open warrant like this about moving an institution into? In Icelandic society, we have seen how some institutions have been laid down only by word of Minister because the institutions have not followed the board of directors. It's happened in Iceland. I believe we don't want that kind of community. We do not want a community where a minister can threaten that if an institution is not set and its employees are just to be brought into the ocean without support. This is a matter to me, to fight violence and to abuse power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech earlier. I agree completely with most of the things that were mentioned in it, and maybe least the last. It's not only about the ability of men to decide to put down or to move organizations, the institutions that humans are doing, as we have seen in history, but also about the fact that men cannot go into failure with organizations in a scandalous bitch. I also find this to be serious because we need to rely on specific stability and professionality. I agree with what happened. A senator earlier said that it may well be that the Fishing Room has the best place in the north, we don't know anything about it, we've never been shown anything to tell us nothing but the Minister's words. I'd also like to mention in this context that there is no total vision. What if people have the policy of not increasing government jobs in the country? Then it will not be possible to watch just one agency and move it while working the other way around. That's where I'd like to mention, and what. paritaprevir For Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, this was mentioned in his talk here before the weekend, the things we were not able to bring, i.e. that exactly the same day, three special jobs were taken from Akureyri, Akureyri Airport, to town because Istavia changed her arrangements to fly north. It is not a matter of opinion that a human being is doing this in any way or in a professional way. That's why I agree with that. Senator that we have to somehow try to put the leak in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u49	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees on this. It touches many important questions and viewpoints. I only brought it into my speech that this issue is not about whether we want to take jobs abroad or not. In fact, some agencies are being transferred from the country to Reykjavík. It's not really about that question, it's just how it's done. It is extremely important to examine the overall picture, which is the total figure. It has been pointed out with Akureyri that at the same time, a Fishing Room went - yes, there were three jobs at Istavia, but it was also work at the Marine Research Institute and Matis, which were leaving at the same time. Would it not be wise to examine the overall picture of all of this? A fine report on the transport of a Fish Room to Akureyri has been made suggesting that this be done over a long period of time. Akureyri is a fishing town, and it is a powerful fishing department at the University of Akureyri. There are very obvious reasons why the Fish Room will be there at some point in the future and that workers will be used, for example, to get the Agency there. This is where people just decided and made a statement about it at some meeting - oral a statement, did not even consult with the Agency itself and its employees - that they wanted to transfer the Agency to Akureyri. This is part of a regional policy that has been determined in the back pocket of the forward category. This is by no means acceptable. I think it sucks. I think it's very wise to try to spread jobs around the country. It's ridiculous that we're going to put that important project under the hat on such a miserable open warrant where a minister can decide this and completely without logical support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u50	A respectable president. But what's positive about this discussion is that we're beginning to discuss other ways of trying to increase the number of government jobs across the country, so you're now trying to look at the bright sides of the flubes that I think are characteristic of these ideas about the transport of the Fishing Room. I find it interesting to consider whether the Management Board should increasingly adopt a procedure, such as the Agency has adopted. The EEA has a work post in several locations around the country, and when advertised by staff, it is stated that it can control the work station it operates, no matter what the work is. I thought it was something that we should look into for the public system in its entirety, thus molding a whole - scale policy of goals that humans can work on instead of working on, i.e. to take these jobs, bring them here, while the work is leaking from the same place in the other direction without discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u51	A respectable president. There are many fine examples of how countries have been able to expand and maintain their jobs. For example, the tax manager has done remarkable work on this project, had specialized work stations in many parts of the country, on Aquilin, in the Western Islands, over here, and there, doing a very professional job, and at peace with all employees. It's great to hear the governor describe the process all along, how it was done, and the results are good service to all the people and jobs throughout the country. It's quite possible. I would like to direct it to the management and monitoring committee, in its discussion on the bill, that she would write into this article which view should be fundamental, how to meet the employee's rights. Now, in the bill, it is said in the report, in comments to the article, that a financial minister may be allowed if he might want to post something on paper on these points. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that is not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u52	President. What's a little strange about this whole process is that the first decision was to move the Fish Room, and then this bill is submitted, and it's natural, after getting the General to agree with it. The bill contains things that I find very unlikely that the members of the greater part will agree with, and I just don't believe in them, and I would feel weird if, for example, if that were true. The independent party would. What do you think? A senator should bring legal changes into the General following, after the actual damage is done? Would have been normal to park, e.g. The bill forwards first and then see if there's any basis for transporting Fish Labs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u53	A respectable president. Of course, it is an amazing practice and to discover it after a declaration that a Fishing Room should be brought to Akureyri that there is no legal basis for it, naturally, is simply a major offense. The decision to move the Fish Room in this way - it must always be done, to do this - has been highly criticized and extensively criticized by the BHM and others and the staff of Fish Rooms. It remains that it is only the director of the agency who is planning to move north. There is evidence that knowledge will be lost. The transfer costs money. Other government jobs are reducing at the same time in Akureyri, raising questions about the picture and the overall policy. Will the service be better? It's not guaranteed. All these views, not to mention just the obvious, the rights of employees and their families, of being able to resolve certain issues in their dealings with the State, are so clearly broken in this process, by making a decision. It is also incredible how to learn more from the criticism and try to heed it rather than just give it up, say a bill on a bill, assuming that future decisions on transport can be taken exactly, without logical support, without consultation, without any professional views. Of course, that is ridiculous and not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u54	All that's been shown in response to what's happened. A senator just gives you a reason to stop and be very worried if this law becomes legal. How would it be for the number of employees working in institutions of the capital area to know that it is really only under the whims of a minister to see if the institution will be moved to Kopasker, Akureyri, or Gríney? You don't quite understand what's behind it. I want to know what's wrong. A senator understands better than I do, I don't understand what's going on because I think it's so illogical and unprofessional.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u55	A respectable president. I think the debate over this bill, that it has come in here and how controversial it is, is about reasoning about authority, how we view authority, who should be the source of power, and who should be the limitations of power. I asked you a question yesterday to the highest level. Secretary of State to issue an ambassador's order where I advertised that there would be some professional demand for ambassador's order, that we no longer allow the obligatoryness of ordering ambassadors, so to speak, must be applied for the position. Other northern nations make some sort of professional demands, and they are listed, and they are there, and they obey the order of ambassadors. I felt like me and the highest. When we were talking about this, a minister could not understand each other. I felt a beam of his answers that he felt all right with just a minister, he somehow didn't realize the criticism of the arrangement, that it is, of course, the source of corruption and biting, and everything. An ambassador's order has been criticized. [[The president calls.]] The same thing that can happen here as it's happening here. It's like the highest. A government does not have the circumstances it creates by doing this, the sort of vegetation of corruption, oppression, and domination that it produces by having such an open law in law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u56	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son for a good speech. There are two things I would like to get clearly out. In 1st. The bill has the authority to transfer institutions to its own interests, and the senator speaks of the need for rules on how to do so. I would like to ask, "Does the senator think he has a need for that? " If it's in the hands of the legislature, it's much safer to go through food every once in a while. I wondered, " Is there a need to change the law? ' Is there something that calls it? Second, I wanted to ask you what. Senator to Unit 10. According to the European Commission today, people can be transferred from job to job, they want to do so themselves, and if both managers agree, the manager of the current employee and the employee is in charge of the ministry to which the employee is transferred. This was to enhance flexibility in the Council of Government, allow people to grow to a job and be able to carry out new assignments but not to lose their human resources. But this article goes so much further. According to her, it's like this, and I understand it in such a way that even the ministry's ads are being passed. So if it happened. A senator would soon be a minister, and he wanted an employee, some Ministry Subcommittee, into his department, even in a high position, then he could do so. It's going downhill with a prince of staff law. Isn't this too much to think of as the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u57	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions. First of all: Is this one needed? par.? Really, no. I totally agree, it doesn't need anything. As it is in the Council of Government now, only a special suggestion would be made to the council if men wanted to transfer organizations. That's really what I'm asking for. Because you're trying to be a solution and to think of positive, upbuilding suggestions to the government and the Commission that will discuss the matter, I made it my suggestion to change, for example. This article, as well as writing into it the requirements for transporting organizations and making ministers an obligation to submit it as an arrangement for Congress. That's two discussions. So there's a compromise in what I'm suggesting, but the red thread is naturally that I criticize that there should be an open arbitrary warrant in such a big and important matter. I hope the Committee and Congress will see that it is not working. About the "B" team, 10. and the transport of workers then I have a strong tendency to view Iceland's Management Board as one of the workplaces, and I know that there were steps during the last term with the Board of Directors to try to look at it that way, to be honest, a bit of opposition at the Assembly Hall then, and that flexibility is in place of moving employees. It also means a measure of progress within the board of directors. If they do well, they can expect to be taken into a more responsible position. I think it is a valid perspective, which is reflected in the bill on the criticism that the law on public employees' rights and the situation is not advertised, of course, that there will be an opening of places elsewhere when the employee is being transferred. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the one that's advertised. I think that's a valid view.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u58	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the clear answer, and I am glad that we agree on Article 1. I just hope we don't have to vote for any compromise. I think we should just have it the way it is in the law right now. About the "B" team, 10. it is more extensive than just reaching the Board of Directors. Perhaps the senator has fallen in the same pit that I did until I began to sort of dive into it. An employee may be transferred, for a certain amount of time or permanent, between the government, with the approval of the presiding officer. That's where we're out front of the Board of Directors and the Ministry and down in the Subcommittee. Government - this is a vast understanding of this; governments are of various ways. Now I may be mistaken, but perhaps these new governments are being referred to within the council. [[The president calls.]] BHM is at least deeply concerned about being, in fact, substantiated by the law on government employees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u59	A respectable president. I have to admit, I've probably fallen into the same pits as hell. Senator. I did not take any particular action, since it is spoken of as government authority, from the government to the government. I have not wondered what it means. I've only been looking at this as a law to introduce the thought that Iceland's Council of Management is one of the workplaces and a man can go from work there. I think it's a bit important that the flexibility is there, but I haven't thought about it, to be honest. It is no doubt a matter of time before the committee asks themselves, " What does it mean that there is a government? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u60	V.E.G. President. This is a bill from the highest level. Prime Minister for the Management Board of Iceland. I'd love to. As we discuss his bill, the prime minister would be able to be in the hall, but hopefully he will be seen at the Senate Hall sometime in the near future. There are also positive points in the bill, e.g. efforts to improve the ability of the management board to move about within the Management Board. In the bill of Prime Ministers, it is sharpened by the obligation of the Minister to report it at government meetings when they meet with members of the management system on important issues or when given important information that is considered as a reason to have a discussion with the government as a whole. The objective of the bill is quite fine, improving information management and professional administration within the Board of Directorates. I still share the opinion of various members of the council here not to be absolutely certain, Mr. President, that a professional management board of the Council will be added with the plans of Prime Ministers on this bill to provide general authority to the council to determine the residence of the institutions under the Ministers, almost without the need to consult with a king or a priest. On the contrary, I think this could lead to a higher level of management, there's a high risk that the transfer of the individual institutions could become a high-priority minister and offer an economisaries of knowledge rather than professional administrations, so I'll try to say it pent. We've been talking at a council Hall about this. What may scare me most about the prime minister's bill is the part of what is involved and is dealing with moral standards in the activities of the Iceland Board of Directors and thus moral standards for Ministers of Self and Their Work. Eight. The bill says, among other things, that the Ministry of Presidency gives governments advice on the interpretation of ethical rules when it is observed that the code of ethics fulfills its purpose. In the bill, some prime ministers have almost one line of pens to put down the current co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administrations. That committee, to our review, is arranged for three years at a time. It has an unregistered manager, one by the appointing of the management board, a representative of the government's staff, two representatives of the union of government officials, and two others chosen on the basis of their expertise in administrative and ethical matters. All right, here is a committee that was established in the history of former governments, which would include being appointed independent agents to advise governments of measures to prevent interest prevention and corruption in cooperation with member organisations, institutions and national and international organisations to counteract corruption in the public sector, professional committees to provide annual reports of their work in which governments should offer proposals for further action to strengthen confidence in government administration, reduce the risk of corruption and better legality of government activity. According to current European Commission legislation, the report of the Commission will be submitted to the General Assembly, where it would be expected to be discussed. With his bill, Prime Minister will lay down this committee, lay down the moral standards for the administration, and he intends to take her work on his own, alone and unsatisfactory. V.E.G. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson himself intends to evaluate moral standards for government and thereby evaluate the moral standards of his minister's own government. I can't understand it any other way, so it's a prime minister to accept almost dictatorial authority on the interpretation of ethical principles that apply to all the administrations. Does this seem like an acceptable administrative agency, rather than a seven - man committee that weighs and values moral standards for Icelandic administration, one man should give his blessing and weigh the moral standards of the Icelandic government? Is this the purpose of the bill, which is to improve information management and professional administration within the Board of Directorates? Is this emphasis on improving government and government administration, as the government's policy declaration says? I also ask: Who weighs and values the moral standards of the prime minister himself regarding the administrations and the duties of the minister and his work? Who should appreciate his work and his minister? By permission of the president, I would like to quote Jón Ólafsson's article, Professor of the University of Bifröst, of August 15, 2014. He noted that the prime minister did not take the time to set up a new co-ordination committee on moral standards set up in the government in 2010. During her three years of service, she cared for the contract of a minister, the staff of the administrations, and the general government personnel. Jón continues to wonder why we need rules of conduct. Why do we need rules of conduct? Why do we need moral standards for the administration? By permission of the president, I will continue to quote this article: ▪ Moral standards are not complicated. They're long gone into industry and administration. Now it would be easy for companies and institutions to set standards of ethics on the grounds of promoting good practice and setting staff clear moral standards, however, to indicate the principle of activity. However, ethical standards are not sufficient; they are only one step in improving practice. Most important, whether it is a job or an administration, people are trying to provide for the dangers of conflicting interests, corruption, or mismanagement and respond to such threats ahead of time. This is exactly the purpose of a minister's moral code: they should be able to make good use of the rules to consider their decisions and actions. By following a moral code, they are likely to reduce their credibility or to claim that a different viewpoint is in control. It is also a minister's advantage in case anyone doubts about it. By permission of the president, I will continue to quote Jón's article. For example, consider the need for a moral code, and these examples are recent: THE last summer, prime minister and financial minister were criticized for accepting an invitation to hunt salmon in the North River for the beginning of a season of fishing. There were private candidates offering the counsellors, and it was not apparent that the invitation was related to their special office. The ministers were deeply shocked when they were criticized for this, feeling that the road was too bad... ...if the co-ordination committee had been active and the Ministers had sought her opinion, it is likely that she would have directed them to this law. As a result, they would have had to think more deeply about their involvement in these trips. Jón points to another example in his article: There are several guidelines that are easily associated with the case of the leak case and are responsible for the minister's responsibility, regardless of what its part of the case may prove to be in the end. By applying the rules of ethics and even by seeking to contact an independent member of the administration system such as co-ordination committees for advice on how to deal with such situations, you are more likely to avoid problems later than when you respond harshly and take a warning such as taking a critical equivalent to accepting a misbehavior. If a prime minister plans to put down a social committee on moral standards in the administrations, I ask: Is it not easy to accept the proposal made by Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the establishment of Council of America? It shows the need to have a code of ethics that guarantees the maintenance of a minister's work. I have much more to say about this, but I think we need to consider this seriously and ask ourselves, " Is this the government we want to live with? ' Do we want to live by no moral rules, no guarantee whether the actions of a minister are moral? Besides, I'd like to point out 6. the prime minister's bill. I pondered the real purpose of it because it says in part: The head of the Department's Office shall be organized by dividing it into trade agencies and each office should be directed by the Office Manager under the management of the Ministry. At the same time, it is permitted to set up specific services and services, which are a part of the Ministry. I'd like to bring up some special work units and agencies. All right, maybe this sounds pretty good, but what dance are we offering? Are we simplifying the administrative system, putting government agencies in the Ministry? Are we strengthening the Ministry, or are we weakening the institutions? What's going on? In an explanation of 6. The prime minister's bill is critical that projects have been taken from councils to independent administrative institutions. Go on says: ▪ No general policy has been behind this trend, and there are very different reasons for such changes. However, it seems that in some cases the purpose of such changes was to remove the authority of the decision from the political authority of the minister. Right on. It is not true that general policy has not been missing when administrative projects were taken from the Councils to the independent administrative institutions, as the bill of prime minister, but the policy was just to increase the maintenance of administrative matters with the aim of improving professional employment. We can give examples of institutions such as the State's Bankament, the office of special prosecutors, and the SEC that fall under the view of being a administrative agency that Prime Minister would like to enter the Ministry. So, in simplicity, do I ask: Is there any possibility that there is a possibility here that such institutions as the ones I mentioned and mentioned, here, will have to have their independence from the administration and advisers to work as planned and be essential to the administration that we must live in? I'd love to hear from the highest. One day the prime minister explains on page 6. The bill. It would also be good if a board of directors applied for this discussion and called for details on it. I don't completely understand its purpose. If the bill's purpose is to simplify the administration, there's still some administrative institutions, and I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's fine speech and meaningful speech. In particular, I would like to thank her for the discussion of ethics, and I wondered that when you go into the Generals' web and into the table of contents, and you pushed S then no code of ethics. Generals have not established moral standards. Last term, you had the highest power. President Ásta R. Jóhannesdóttir, and prime committee initiates a career to make moral rules for the Generals. There were excommunicators, ethicists, and what do I know, to go to that job. We councilmen met many here at the Oddf Yellow House to meet us in the pad. Then the code was set up, and they pretended to be going way too far. In particular, there were protests in two political parties, but today there were the highest levels. The president has had the ambition to want to continue this work and set moral standards for members of the council, to accept rules from the prime committee. We have been on the basis of the conventions of ethics built entirely by the European Council's Code of Morality, which the Council of Europe has issued as a guide for a European Parliament, a European Parliament. I know that in my group, the United States, people were happy with the rules, just as they were comfortable with the stricter rules that went further. Then I'd like to ask who. A member of Parliament: She believes that there may be some connection between the lack of moral code for any member of the council and that it is now at the highest will. Prime Minister reduces standards of morality in the board?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u62	Thank you. A senator's question. Yes, I allow myself to wonder what a real purpose it is with prime minister. The spirit of the bill is clearly reducing the value of ethical order, and it is completely disproportionate to the code of ethics that applies to the actions and decisions of the Minister and the administration of all, to one person. How on earth should we be able to trust that professional decisions about them are made? How are we to trust the prime minister, without me questioning his character - we have to be able to trust that the process is professional. We are talking about this code of ethics, and we can also point out that the delay in appointing a new committee is a political decision, and that is a decision to the highest degree. Prime Minister takes his own. There is no room behind the fact that there is so much to do that he cannot make that decision for himself. It is a political decision and an informed decision not to call a committee again, and that decision is made on the bill. This will spread to the council and to the council, so we too need to consider the matter. Perhaps it is suggested for the council to consider and discuss, whether it is possible to return to the work of molding ethics for members and members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u63	Mr. President. I agree completely with the senator, and I think that exactly that there was no newly formed committee on the part of the prime minister tells us that we should avoid making any changes in this direction, for it will in no way improve the setting of ethical principles and compliance with them within the board. That was exactly what happened at an open meeting with the U.S. Council agent of the Board of Directors and Control, where I cut off the fact that a bill was inside and asked the senators to consider it. It was a very objective statement, and I'm not going to make any opinions of the Generals, but it attracted the special attention of members of Congress and encouraged them to think about this bill. I'm also going to say that it's my business to myself and my voters to be honest with my jobs, not to conceal valuable information that can affect my work and that's what I do. But I am a member of the General Assembly, who are here at the General Assembly, and we enjoy a lack of trust. And I don't like it when we don't have an approved moral code and the people I've been working for know that I'm bound by following this code. It hurts. It is part of strengthening confidence in the Council, and it is bad when those who prevent us from establishing such rules suggest in the field of government that follow-up and reform in the board's ethics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager for a good speech, and especially for coming in here on a subject that has not been discussed much in this discussion until now, according to the code of ethics. It's a number of times in this bill, where I run the articles and reviews on them again to the General Agent for the Supreme Agent. A former government minister on an ever greater scale, and, of course, this clumsy arrangement with the Council's Code of Morality, that it may not have been set, but it was thought to be in force but not or something. No one seemed to have it clear, and no wonder that the Generals agent was half excited about how he should deal with it. I also share criticism. A member of the body of elders, especially in view of the fact that the Council of Government somehow made it appear that they were still in effect from the last government, without so much as read them well enough to realize that it was not, which, of course, is clumsy, so hard to speak. Also, I find the interpretation of ethics to be at the highest level. Prime Minister only because he is the highest. Prime Minister, not the person but the office. And the fact that this office is actually in the process of bringing reproach upon my own government, I don't like it. I don't know what people want to do this on a different level if they're gonna have it like that. However, I wondered: " If we want to advance moral standards, don't they really have to stop becoming ethics and just become rules? I always have a little bit of concern that the term "ethnic code" is intended to reduce the follow-up of its nature regardless of who does the surveillance thing or what. [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator has that to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u65	President. Thank you. A senator resists the question. Actually, I'm the one who's saying I think it's good to set the rules as ethical, because these things can be better defined. If so, we may be able to classify our conduct, judgment, and the actions of a minister under such rules. Another point I'd like to point out is that during last night's conference discussions was the highest. The prime minister enters from his reaction to the leak matter. Yes, he said he'd react, but his reaction would be to discuss this bill, that the reaction would really be to the bill we're discussing today. Thus, the response of the local prime minister to the leak matter is to minimize the importance of ethical order, that he, alone, and unsatisfactory and himself, is a judgment worthy of what is civil and what is acceptable in the office of a minister. Then there are the answers to the leak matter by the prime minister. It is impossible to interpret the words of the prime minister last night, as if these were the answers, to put down the co-ordination committee on ethical standards in the management system, and to assign themselves all the duties of a seven - man committee that is independent, and to get special members to evaluate matters. The prime minister will accept these assignments alone. There we have it, there we have the answer. There we will respond to a prime minister's reaction to the leaky matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I still have doubts that ethics are necessarily a good tool for causing ministers to comply with some particular rules, or rather: I wonder how the rules of ethics currently in effect would have been handled if they had been fully valid and had been carried out by some independent party or interpreted by the U.S. Marshal's agent. I can't see that there was anything but the so - called political responsibility there. And with regard to political responsibility in the leak business, I can't see that the aftereffects had been great if any, if I'm to say exactly the way it is. So I wondered, " Is it not more important to have rules in the form of rules so that we can respond in a more definitive way than to say, 'cause it's very obvious if you look at the leak case that it has absolutely nothing to say, at least not until there's nothing else in it. ' Even then, there is always some kind of denial, a strange denial that identifies Icelandic politics in general. Therefore, when it comes to ethics and simply rules that apply, I want to do more strongly to politicians, politicians. As a matter of fact, I'm concerned that because the code of ethics is called a moral code, so that you can have something in those you can't put directly into rules, there are various interpretations and the interpretations themselves become political, i.e. that the result of this interpretation is not only political but also self - interpretation. I'm a little worried about that. But it's an interesting discussion, and thank you very much. A senator for bringing this up, for it is important that we consider how we will have rules, whether for members of the council or for the highest. Minister. [[The president calls.]] But I wondered, " If what? ' A senator willing to consider the matter in order? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. This is a very useful and good question, and we would like to consider it because we obviously need moral standards that can apply to any situation. I think it is also suggested to the Board of Directors to consider this question and whether this feature may also need to enter the bill. It is very good to think about it at that point. I'd like to add that, because of it. The senator mentioned the leak case, and we were only discussing it here, in my opinion, and I believe that more people share that assessment with me, it would have been a more professional reaction on the part of a prime minister to have a moral committee to be able to seek self to that committee and get her opinion on how to react to the leak, than to be taken by surprise, in the press, and to defend that existing Minister instead of leaning back and seeking the assistance of these experts, this seven members, and to ask her for the opinion of the situation that had come up. Then he could backfire to have sought help and counsel with such a committee, which is, in my mind, fully understandable and much better government and decision making than to go out there and defend such a minister himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u68	A respectable president. This is a lot of helpful discussions, and, in my opinion, the last issue of which is very last. A senator who spoke before me and discussed ethics. I would especially like to bring the attention of the United States Congress to two articles in the bill, Article 4. and 10th par. In Comb 4. The bill says, with President's permission: ▪ Instead of the word "formable " at 1 mgr. 1 1. The law comes: important. There's a word changed to 1 1 1. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, which requires a range of important information rather than formal information, as it already states. As I examine where this article is coming from, it becomes evident that it was too burdensome to have the concept at the time, and therefore it was repeated in the treatment of the council from the chairman of the council. The General and Education Committee, which made this possible that there should be written down or what was supposed to be formal or important. In an agent's letter on the basis of his observation of contact with the highest. A former Minister of Internal Affairs at the then Honorable Chief of Police, Stefán Eiríksson, will mention this very article, Article 11. track No. 115/2011, of the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, and that he has requested data on this formal interaction with the former highest level of communication. Minister of Internal Affairs and the Chief of Police. These data may not have been available. Then he comes in to the impression that there seems to be a shortage of public knowledge at the Ministry exactly what is considered for formal data. However, the rules on registration of data, no. 1200/2013. As far as I can see, there's something clear there. There are four things that I plan on due to lack of time to be listed here, which are also mentioned in Article 2. The rules that the Council of the European Parliament should be consulted for the registration and information of the regulations as well as the legislation on the National Archives of Iceland. The account refers to the 27th chapter of the Bible. Enlightenment modified by Article 10. the bill on this subject is also discussed. That's why it's 4. and a-a team 10. in the bill we're talking about here. Therefore, as far as I can see, this is the case with an important, rather than informal, communication. In view of the lack of formal communication, and the bill's report goes on, despite the rules on registration of communication no. 1200/2013 seems pretty clear to me - I don't understand what man thinks is unclear about it -- I think it's very ambiguous over recent events, see, the leak language and the communication of the highest level. a former Minister of Internal Affairs to the then prominent police chief, to go out and change this definition from formal to important. This is one of the things I feel are important to you. The management and monitoring committee will take into account. It's another smell of this bill that I see somehow affecting the leak business, and it's getting a little uncomfortable to see these connections all the time. You would have expected the changes in the law to follow such a serious matter as the leaky language and the behavior of the so - called Supreme Court. The Minister of the Interior State would lead to efforts to correct what is wrong in the process, in the induction of the law, rather than in the manner of the law itself. I don't think it's a good idea to change the law when there's something wrong with enforcing it, in spite of the obvious indications, that the code should have been established by the government, that it should have followed a different political interpretation. Prime Minister, e.g. to interpret the rules of ethics, as well as to explain that the data should be more formal. The meetings on which the U.S. Marshal was looking for information were on issues discussed at the Ministry General. ... thenthe Secretary of the Interior. [[The president calls.]] I wondered why that route had gone. [[The president calls.]] Now that I have no time for any more, a respectable president, and I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u69	V.E.G. President. I don't need to state what we're talking about. There's a natural bill to correct a change in Iceland's Council of Government. When the big crash occurred, I began to be very interested in politics. At that time, I began to wonder, as many people do: " How on earth can an entire society collapse like this? Then you began to think about the company's activities and to wonder every day how this could happen. They were in the process of investigating the International Assembly report, which is a great work on more volumes. By reading and listening to a discussion of that report, it was apparent that everything that went wrong in the Icelandic community was wrong; the execution of power, financial institutions, General. The work of the Generals was not good enough, and there was nothing in the post office. This helped me to become more involved in politics than I had ever been in my life. I wanted to participate, share in trying to change, and create a better society where everyone worked together. It may be a long-term fever, and we in a short future have been caught in a lot of trouble because we want everyone in the woods to be friends, which is natural absurd, and some others make but us. We must be able to create a society where everyone works more cohesively and cohesively. I have encouraged the government to have even more discussions with everyone in the country, more consultation with the Council, the Generals, and especially with the administrations or minorities, rural society, the educational community, and all kinds of society. Never has there been heard of anything new. Then this bill comes forward here, and I'm mainly concerned with 1. par.The secretary states: "Unless the law recommends, the establishment of an institution under which he will hear it will be established. " He makes that decision on his own. You know, you throw a little bit of shit over it. What's happening? One of the things that turned out to have been very lacking and bad for the management of Iceland was the great Ministership of the past. You can read interviews with former Ministers where they say that the Supreme Minister and Minister's office were completely and too much. I would like to quote the General's study report, pp. 180, Volume 8, says, with permission from the President: To promote the authority of the individual politician, there is a higher probability of a arbitrary decision. This is often accompanied by a narrow view of democracy, which involves regular government possession of their actions under voters' judgment and between which they should have free hands for what they do in their power, as long as they remain within the bounds of the law. This is a very narrow view of democratic legal governance. It is an important part of the democratic government's order of making decisions in order to maintain an opinion and to accept them in a reasonable way with those in question. From that point of view, democratic administration requires professional, planned, well - thought - out, not just that the works of politicians are put into the judgment of voters at the end of the term. The changes that took place at the Council of Government in 2011 were aimed at trying to reduce the Ministry and allow the council to carry out its discussion better. On page 18. 184 persons in the same volume are referred to as conclusions and lessons. By permission of the president, I would also like to quote it: (b) What is the situation of the clergy today? Because of the overemphasis on debates, the Senate is in an effort to replace knowledge and reasoning with military art and power healers. The Senate is also poorly equipped to carry out its surveillance role, including the violence of the part and the executives, as well as the lack of professional backlands for the council. A lack of professionalism and a lack of faith in theoretical reasoning is a problem in Icelandic politics. In Icelandic society, discouragement has been the dominant factor in how power in the power of wealth has gathered on few hands and threatened democratic rulerships. Then we will consider some of the lessons we can draw from this, for example. to reduce Ministerhood and strengthen the surveillance role of the Generals. On the contrary, I feel that this bill is not in that direction. On the contrary, it is being given power to a minister to bring an institution wherever he pleases and wherever he wants to, without speaking to a king or a priest, and much less to the council. I feel like this, as we have seen in many very good speeches. Senators, be something we don't want to be. In fact, you find this quite unbelievable, although it is not surprising because of what happened last summer when the media showed up at the highest level. Seafood and agricultural ministers and the highest. The prime minister would have decided to move Fish Room to Akureyri. Now I'm not going to say it's bad to move Fish Room to Akureyri. I can totally agree with them. People who have said that it may not be bad, but as we have seen in many talks, this is a matter of methodology. Is it acceptable to inform the personnel of the agency that it should be taken with a man and a mouse 400 miles north, it's so good to live there? There was one argument, that it would be so good to live there, there would be good weather in the summer. I wondered what it would be like if I ever became a minister, maybe in the next government, though it's rather unlikely, but I say I would be a minister of education. Today a discussion was being made that two institutions, a study centre, and a research agency are being united. Suppose I became a minister of education for the next government and adopted it and announced in the media that I was moving this agency to Cheflavík, or Smokeytown, because it had a bad business situation. And I'd just like it because it would be nice to live in Smokeytown, from there would be a short way to the airport, short to the Blue lagoon. I didn't think it would be acceptable, and neither would I. Last week, the independence was remembered by Ólafur Thor and his 50 - year - old seasons. For one thing, it was noted in the speech of Davíð the Oddsson of Oddd, former prime minister and current editors of the Morning newspaper that Ólafur - and he was a great politician; there is no doubt about it; certainly one of the better politicians in Iceland's history - would have used much joy and joy to get men to cooperate with him and to work together toward some goal. I wish that was the case today. I came across an article when I was reading about and wondering how I want an Icelandic community. The article, by Njarðvík, a respected scholar, a poet, and a philanthropist, wrote in the May 28, 1997, issue of Awake! There he speaks of the weekend and quotes Ólafur Thors from giving a speech shortly after the establishment of the Republic of 1944, where he says, in fact, by permission of the president: ▪ The English republic of the United States is a weekend. Then Njörður explains this matter, and I quote from his article, by permission of the president: ▪ The word "ethnic " is made clear, as if it were a legal term and a symbol of a personal security confirmed by the law of the law of the English Dictionary of Culture. Today, there is an elongating term to be a touchy security to be safe - we've heard it before, e.g. ... bythis Government. - and everyone may not understand it the same way. But I think that in view of many evidences, the word "management " actually means more than a single legal concept, because of the latter part of the word, which includes a degree of immunity and holiness. At least I allow myself to understand Ólafur's words so that the foundation of the Icelandic republic should be a human vision, that in the new total freedom of the nation there is an opportunity and, in fact, the need to create a society of free people who are trying to bring about a prosperous national life with human rights, empathy, and justice guided. Such a vision involves wish and vision. And idealism requires loyalty and service. Therefore, those words of Ólafur must require that those chosen to take the lead in the nation serve the idea of privacy, which is the motto of the Icelandic republic. The Njörður also speaks of how the world has succeeded. Has salvation really been the motto of the Icelandic republic? There he points out a number of factors, such as. When workers were handed over to fish in the sea Was there a weekend behind that? He even mentioned it as the greatest mistake in the history of politics in Iceland. He also talks about the environment and the affairs of the elderly. Notice that he wrote that article 17 years ago. I wondered: " Is it really a mass of people that one minister has the authority to bring in an institution? What's an institution? Is it just a table, chairs, computers? No, she's not. The foundation is the primary staff involved in it and the knowledge it has acquired. For example, consider the case of a Fish Room, perhaps about 20 years old, and an enormous knowledge has been developed there. I ask, Is the public good behind that decision? Has this been considered for the benefit of the nation? Is it better to have a Fishing Room in Akureyri? Is it better to have a research center at Isafjordur? These questions can never be asked. We must never forget that when we are in politics, we are working for the public in the country, and we have to think it through. Today, this government has greatly influenced the term "homes " in the country to be known in the United States, to be a member of the United States and to be a member of the United States. In fact, she was a kinkoz out of the country, and she was in the country, in the late 1980's. Is it good for the home of 70 fishermen in Fish Room to have her roots removed and moved north in Akureyri? What about the children? Is the rights of children being looked to in that case by schools and communities? We do too little to think about. We can never forget that behind all our organizations there are people of flesh and blood, people with much experience and knowledge that can be lost. I also wondered about the Fish Room, as we're talking about it, that it's now time to change the fishing system, and we're going to submit a new bill. Should the Fish Room be upset when it's done? What's the role of Fish Room? It offers advice and counseling. Is it acceptable that this is done in this way, and then even when changing the fishing system, the Agency is upset? You ask yourself. I know that it was in the government's policy declaration that public jobs should be exported to land and that these were built up that would need to be considered and to try to strengthen by perhaps moving public jobs there. I don't know that Akureyri, with all due respect to the fine town, is at particular risk or is considered to be fragile. Other than the fact that this has been the case. Councilmen that jobs have been moving from Akureyri and Húsavík, for example, public jobs, and at the same time moving this institution north. We're not supposed to do this. We are to learn from what has been bad in recent years. There's a lot of things that caused this place to crash. Hv. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir introduced morality. I have to admit that I hadn't quite figured it out until she mentioned it. This was a very good point because it not only became a financial breakdown, but it also became a moral collapse. It turned out that people are not thinking about it. What are we here for? I used to wonder. I've read my own stuff, and my job here is to look after public interests first. We are not to make any decisions, no bills, no laws, no Senate laws, unless it serves the interests of the public in the country primarily, and perhaps especially those who may be least of their members in the community. That's a good rule John Rolls had in his day. I hope this will be changed to the Commission's treatments and to conclude that this will not work. It's not for that. There's nothing wrong with bringing institutions, it's all right by nature if that's a good argument, but it's discussed at the World Council and making a decision by the representatives of everyone, not that one minister has to move an organization with a man and a mouse anywhere if it suits him. It smells a bit of a ballot, the Fish Room transport, and that's how we don't want things. We want to build a healthy, good society where men work together for the good and happiness of this nation. I don't think this bill is in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u70	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. He spoke a lot about what the members of the Parliament assume is under here, i.e. to move institutions to the office of the secretary's initiative. It sounds to me that we agree that this is a tendency to the Ministers, to draw in greater power, and completely contrary to the proposed report of the World Council of Research Committee. I think we should keep that report down and go down into it, because, unfortunately, there are too many things in society at the highest. A government that is bent on old behavior, and I think that more should try to strengthen the Senate's surveillance role, as has been initiated during the last term. It is true, of course, that it is impossible for one minister to have totalitarian authority in determining where the institution is going and, as it were, to be all - powerful by ethics as well, despite having someone to help him choose so, because there is nothing that really says it. We know there's a leak on duty to the capital area off the surface of the country. The few jobs there have been, I mentioned in my article at the Work Office, Merro, the agent of the creditors, have been moving from the country, and not necessarily south, but that they have just been dropped. Like what? A member of the U.S. government states that jobs should be moved abroad. I would like to ask him: " Does he feel that the need for these rules is there, in view of the fact that this is the case with the inquiry that says no organizations are to be exported to the country? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I haven't heard that any organizations were to be taken ashore, and unfortunately, I can't answer that. I think it's a little strange when you start thinking about it, why is this happening? This has been reported in previous talks, such as by my chairman, why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, that it's like this 1st gig. has been thrown into this bill, and perhaps it will follow the transfer of a fish lab. Suddenly, they realized that they could not, and especially in view of the tremendous protests that followed. But I can't tell you why it's like this. Hv. A senator also spoke of leaks. There's always this thing with leaks. This is our capital and main administrative region, and it is not surprising that the capital is the center of administration and so on. It's not just here in Iceland, it's everywhere, city culture and cities have been building in the last 100 years. This means that there is a reduced number of jobs in the country. There's something we can clean up and start looking at more why this situation in Iceland is so bad, why we haven't been able to build up other jobs in the country, where jobs are just based on agriculture and fishing roads. Perhaps there is a future situation that we need to address and discuss, how we can develop a more powerful and varied job life in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u72	A respectable president. It was like that. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason received an answer from every council in which he said that there was no place to move institutions to shore, and that's why you're wondering about it. You see, I don't think it's a coincidence that this thing came in, it didn't fall in. I'm sure it's encouraged, but I think it's the thought, that's the tendency, to take over, not to bring things through the council. I think that's a worry. I agree that, of course, the management board here in the capital area is mostly, but that doesn't mean that we can't, you know, with some careful practices look to various factors and create a plan to see how we see the administrations we have. The bill now shows that various administrative institutions are being examined. But it seems only that they are being examined for what can be created within the budget, that governments can be created there, and that they reduce the number of persons who are independent, instead of having a wider circle and looking for a longer-term development plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u73	Mr. President. I also wondered if the Ministry is being promoted. Last year, the eco-efficiency team, and especially for many members of the management team, showed that the public system and the government system were decomposed here in Iceland, had to be done very quickly to reduce the number of officials, which were almost obligatory. But it seems to me that this is even expanding the system. I may not quite understand it, I don't have the experience or the knowledge of it, but you might think that it should start to do it. Like what? A senator brings up this inquiry from what happened. Björn If Valur Gíslason does, he will insinuate it in a little bit, and it is surprising that no institutions are to be exported to the land compared with what is presented in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. In this regard, a member of the body of elders had a fine talk in many places. One of the points that he mentioned was that this article involves a consideration of the bill, which gives advice to all advisers as far as it turns out, to determine with no limit to the location of any institutions that will be heard at any given time. In view of what happened, I wanted it. A senator traced it to his employees and other employees, dwelling on it; does he feel that the method selected is so broad? I have the theory that if men had just chosen to settle over moving Fish Room for material moisture that would have meant moving it abroad, they would probably have been able to achieve some solidarity over this, and they would have been able to do so over a period of years. But the general law, as it is in itself, is not to calm the Akureyrins to trust that the Fishing Room will be there, even though it will be moved there because the next minister can only transport it back. And as I have not been tired of reminding them, the Marine Agency in Hafnarfjörður is now because the last minister was from Hafnarfjörður and brought it there the last time those classes were together in government. It is, therefore, no line to find in these categories whether agencies should be in the capital area or in the region. One of the world's rings are being made. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: How would he have felt if the matter had been handled in a different way and had been discussed here specifically because the law had to be changed - to move a Fish Room to Akureyri and to do so in some other way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I would've liked that very much. As I have said before, and in my speech earlier, I feel quite inadequate that one minister can have the authority to transfer an institution just anywhere. And exactly like what's happened. A senator would then be brought to Akureyri, and then the next minister would come and bring her something else. It's amazing, and I think the Minister's Authority must be too much, especially in the light of what was reported in the General Commission report. As in this case, arbitrary decisions would be made in human terms. I'm not going to the highest. The prime minister of having a ballot, but this is very strange, especially in view of the fact that last assembly, 143th Congress, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdótttir, why? Councilman of the forward party, made a pact proposal to prepare for the transfer of the National Guard to the Southnesin. The proposal was not even discussed in a committee; yet, most of us were members of the district of the South on the proposal as well as members of other elections. This was not even for discussion. That's why it was so surprising that a minister should decide, at least. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Seafood and agricultural ministers, moving Fish Room north. We haven't learned anything. We haven't learned anything. Is this what we want to see in Icelandic government after all that has happened? Like what? A senator mentioned earlier there is nothing wrong with transporting Fish Room to the north. It just needs to be done with everyone and especially the employees. You would have thought that it should be done primarily by consultation and good agreement with the Agency's employees and then by Generalis where they would reach conclusions that would be acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u76	A respectable president. That's interesting. A senator runs here. I think it is possible to discuss materially whether and to what extent individual institutions can reside in the country. Of course, in the case of a Fish Room, a large part of the fishing road is all over the country and can be a real subject to the fact that individual parts of Fish Room operate outside the capital area. Like what? A member of the state guard also gives clear evidence that he will be using the facilities available at the Cheflavívik airport for the quality of his flight. That's why I'm asking. A member of Parliament: Is it not the monopoly that these factors will be reviewed during the treatment of the committee and that they will try to narrow the source so that it will not be unlimited? And regarding organizations that have been brought on the basis of this record, should they apply to be brought back during the next term?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u77	Mr. President. I agree that hopefully the committee will discuss that this article will be dismissed and changed. Since we're talking about Fish Labs, the sea route is all over the country, but a fish living room is here in the capital area, especially in order to be near the Sea Department. She deals with counseling and monitoring, collects data and other information for the Marine Department, and therefore offers advice. Therefore, it is not unusual for her to be in this area. In addition, there are five fish parlors all over the country; Cape, Akureyri, Issafa, and Stykisholmi. Thus, a fishing room has a national work and operating post. Hence, it is even more surprising that she should be brought there. She already has a medical station in Akureyri. Hence, it is even more strange, and it could have been discussed much better and concluded whether she was better off in Akureyri than here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u78	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Now it is that these laws were last modified in 2011. This was done on the basis of a report made by an expert group by Samhent board. Experts say in the introduction to the report that the changes they suggest will be just to increase the flexibility between recruitment and institutions, ensuring that knowledge and human culture are fully new and that there are increasing transparency in the process. The purpose of the now proposed changes is also to increase the flexibility. Hv. A senator mentioned that it was opening up for a ball of ideals, and for such purposes whole institutions were brought up with bad results, even for the employees' families and financial interests. But, hey. A senator spoke a little gently and did not want to claim that the transfer of Fish Room was for this purpose. I'm going to say that there's just the ideal thing under there. We're gonna go for a second. A senator would agree not to take the National Guard to the Southnes, and we would agree that it is both professional and financial evidence, but not everyone agrees with us. I want to ask you why. Senator: Wouldn't it be nice to have such flexibility if there was a chance that an inside minister might be seated in a Southnesian, and we would first get our wish fulfilled?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I bet that would be really good. But I just don't like government like that, and I don't think politics that way because it hasn't really been happy over the years. To me, Iceland is one thing and I'm sorry to be disturbed. Allied members of this hall often try to cross the country's settlements and capitals, which I find to be one of the ugliest political games ever played here. We Icelanders are one, and we should be able to determine whether we want an institution here or there. As for the National Guard, this was the subject of last assembly discussion. Of course, the D.C. could be anywhere, but because the National Guard has part of its operation on the airport and it's all there for it, there's evidence to transport it to Southnes, and you've also heard that the workers are not at all opposed to that transport, quite contrary to Fishing House. There's only one person who's going to move in with the Fish Room, and it's the fish lab director who's gonna be very bad for my town because he lives there, just buying a house. Of course, it would be really nice to have this, Minister could say, "I would just go this way, but I don't want to, I don't want to do that kind of work. We're supposed to win democratically and always put on the table of public interest first. Is this good for society? It's good for an Icelandic community to have your privacy, e.g. At the Cheflavour Airport? I wondered, especially in the light of a discussion about the Western Council and the Arctic. This place could be a rescue center, a search, and I can see that the Southnes were perfect for it. There's everything, the airport, everything. That's how you look at it, but I wouldn't want to be involved in such politics and a ballot, even if you're obviously supposed to help your own district.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u80	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator may have to look at this from many points of view. The report of the International Parliamentary Committee and the Report of the Parliamentary Committee, which produced this report, is about the administration and the importance of formality and discipline, active processes, and preconceived careers for a small nation. Really, for smaller peoples and more populous peoples, so to speak, there is an obligatory government and structure that is far more important than there, just because they are well - known, and for whom a community of acquaintances, etc. I'm of the opinion that with the change we're talking about taking out the formality and increasing the loose. I want to ask you why. A senator would agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u81	Mr. President. Yeah, I totally agree with what. That's what a senator does. I took as an example in the anti-Semituity Department, which I believe is the correct procedure on the matter, to suggest that the Council concluded a resolution that the Council examined the move of the Landland Guard on the Southnes. Then, after considering whether this is appropriate, whether it is better, or not, the Parliament's decision should be made. That's how I'd like to see the process with, for example. The transfer of the Fish Room, that it had been discussed at the council, whether the move was favorable. We're not supposed to make such arbitrary decisions. This article requires that ministers abuse their authority, even calling for corruption and division in a society that is not good, we do not need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u82	A respectable president. It's not surprising that we are, in discussions about the change in Iceland's Council of Control, discussing Fish Service because there may be an example of how this authority should not be used and how to make decisions. I have this dream that people in this government will make decisions in such a way that they will come here and tell us that there has been an assessment of where and how a particular operation is best handled, because the decision has been made to move this or the other Institute at X many steps where it belongs best at home. It is not that the Minister, as in this case, simply announces it and then becomes aware that he does not have legal authority. In fact, the minister went to such an extent that he promised people that they would receive special payment for the transfer beyond what the State usually does, and legal authority dictates, which sets an example and will provide us with problems in the future. Then it doesn't matter which way they move, i.e. Whether from the region of the capital or any other region, it is from the capital area. All of this has been an example of how things should not be done at all. That's why this discussion will be so extensive here on this bill. And because of the way this was done, I strongly object that this article will remain unconvinced. I think it would be far more exhilarating for a man to make a clear law on how to make such a decision and what professional initiative the first to take place so that a minister could suggest a proposal to bring an organization as follows. That doesn't mean that I'm against the fact that we're moving agencies to the country or to Reykjavík from the country or whatever, most of all, I'm against moving them to shore. I'm really sick of Iceland developing and becoming kind of a city state. I want us to work hard and try to make sure that we're moving around all over the country because we need it. The change has been too fast, there is a substantial leaning on the land, and therefore we all have concerns. But taking one organization like the Fish Room and moving it in the name of extending the country's settlement is not the way. It is the wrong way, especially because, most respected president, that, at the same time, men have listed, they may not be up 12, 13, 14 jobs that have been transferred from Akureyri in one way or another, since that proclamation came from the Supreme Court. Minister. It doesn't work for people to suggest such dramatic changes - when I say powerful things, that means that they're going to move an institution in such a thorough fashion that most employees will not follow along. They will have to spend a lot of time and money building up the knowledge in that house again, rather than having done this differently, such as slowly increasing at the Akureyri work station, making it with a natural renewal of human resources. This is not the way, especially because there are contradictions in all the matter. As long as this discussion takes place and we spend our energy on it, the work from Akureyri is in town. There's no whole bridge in this, no holistic policy. Besides, I have to say in the end, a respectable President, because my time flies, that I am totally against the change to 8. The bill, which states that the Ministry of Presidency alone should be the advisers of the interpretation of ethics and instruction within the board of directors. I think it's a complete return. This does not produce trust and credibility in this process. It is quite normal to mention where more people will be able to interpret ethical principles if they think that they have credible policies and that they have credible standards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u83	A respectable president. During my first talk on this matter, I limited myself to a discussion about the transportation principle in Article 1. and referred to other features of this bill that I wanted to discuss in a few words. I agree with the change to 2. And make her wise, that it is for her a material argument. I think the change is 6th. something to consider, creating an idea of special operations and services, which are operating as part of the Ministry. I find the idea interesting, and maybe it's a change to make it possible to reduce the expense of developing institutions, the independent institutions, i.e. by hosting them within the consulting process. But this is difficult if such institutions are assured of independence. I also agree with others here mentioned in the discussion of criticizing Article 8. the general authority of the Ministry of Presidency in the interpretation of ethical principles. In general, sociologists believe that if the procedure is not based on the commitment of those to whom the rules are to apply, there is no point in moral code. If it's not that the general staff of the Council will come to the rules of rules and understand their contents, then it is a misunderstanding about the nature of ethical principles to think that they can be like the commandment that humans are beaten in the head, derived from some higher power. Rather, it is not that way. On the contrary, as with his reaction in the leaky language, the prime minister showed special interest in promoting a moral or moral attitude in matters of opinion that have developed during his reign, as well as in his reaction to the leaky language, he looked in all other directions but in the direction he himself bore responsibility. I'd like to then make up the subject for the new b-party. Change of law on rights and duties of state workers. It is suggested that they further expand the legislation given in 2011 on authority to transfer counsel within the Board of Directors and that they could move with their own agreement between recruitment practices. This change has been successful. I agree with that. That's where we open the door for doing the same thing between the institutions. I think it's a matter of mind to think that people in the state's institutions can go between their institutions or from the state agency to the Ministry. However, I warn against making this vast change if it's not a problem that opening a general commercial release is not being carried out. This is what we experienced in the fall to the highest. an internal minister did not advertise the position of the chief of police in the capital area, the chief of police, when she decided to place in it a chosen police officer without advertising, her and her official services and her political assistants for investigation. This was not good, and it was not good for confidence in the office and for good but for confidence in the chief of the police to whom the work was given, which is truly beneficial. It is unwise to open the way for such a wide range of activities, on the basis of market sources for performance, from the general rule of advertising public services, I do not speak of key jobs, executives, institutions. I'd like to mention this because this warrant is for itself - I can quite understand the reason behind it, but it can become enormously extensive if it is interpreted beyond the narrow range of values it is designed for. And there is no restriction on that expression of the article itself. I would like to direct it to the Committee to limit the set of values or to explain it further. Finally, I repeat, asking the committee for her careful review of Article 1. and prevents the failure of institutions to persist in uncertainty about their future position. This can't benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u84	A respectable president. I'm going to continue with what I was talking about earlier, but I was up to 6. g., and asked about the committee mentioned in comments to the branch that is looking at the state's institutions, which administrative committees are entitled and which are not. I'll think of it a little because I'd like to get to the top. A minister will answer that question when he hopefully gathers the discussion later. I think it's an interesting point in statements by 6. in terms of the loss of human resources associated with the disposal of administrative and decision making. It quotes a report by the General Commission, which states that the Ministry was so small that they were not able to handle complex administrative and similar tasks. But then it is the first work of this government to divide and reduce them, so here we are speaking at the contrary. I don't really feel that people are parties in what they do and then suggest, however, that there is little room for specialization within the small recruitment groups, and there are reasons for uniting organizations of the council. The ministry might have been better off, and it would have been for the people to develop knowledge of their own potential. I also wanted to put in the rest of the comments at 6. .. where this is said to result in the guarantee of comparable clearance to those in charge of decision making on behalf of a minister and those of the institutions now have in their own name. I feel like there's a little bit of a transfer into the office. I agree with what's been discussed here about 7. ....................................., the type of transport of tasks and the like between recruitment methods, that it is not good to stir it up a lot. The changes that took place last year have shown that there is no room for any interested or interested ministers. There has been much discussion of 8. ... and since I don't have a long time, I'd like to say that I feel like one of the things that are positive there is, however, that the Ministry of finance is going to try to introduce the ethics of other state institutions but the problems that have been planned, even though it has not been carried out but is in observation. Of course, that's very necessary. It discusses the publication of a manual to introduce the rules. It is very unusual, though, that one minister, as mentioned earlier, should be in the hands of the above - to make sure that such procedures are followed or not. Notes on the bottom of each page are given. 11 By permission of the President, for example, it would be to shape further rules regarding the impact of stakeholders on the administration, e.g. the preparation of the legislation to be done in the same way as the next one. - That's a good point. It goes on to say that this role will be better handled within the Ministry, although it will be discussed with one another. I don't think there's any evidence that this is any better than the way it is today, and I can't agree with what it says here that it is in order to promote professional activities and to increase confidence in the administration that some Minister will accept it, whoever he is at any time. It's not enough to request suggestions from the Institute of Civilology or any other authority, I think it's better to have the arrangement in the arm length and professional title that it is today. About 10. ... I would like to reiterate that it is more reasonable to believe that it is not a more detailed registration of the third party within the administration but that it is between the administrations itself, as it has been presented here, and that it is a matter of leakage. I'd like to talk to you at the end of the story about the transfer of employees. I believe that it is good for people to move from job to job within the board, but I agree with BHM's comments and comments; they cannot support the publication of jobs when it is published in certain public institutions and can be filled without advertising. Finally, a respectable president, I would like to say that there is no such thing as reducing the number of vacancies, but perhaps reducing the number of jobs that are taking place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now the Committee will cover the bill in detail, I believe, with the eyeglasses of the Allied Research Committee, which discussed in their report on the administrations and how small agencies and minor agencies could potentially weaken the administrations so that no projects could be demanded of those required. It seems to me that 6th. The bill is talking about strengthening the administration by creating an institution within the Ministry. Hv. There's a senator on the General and Education Committee that's dealing with a bill at the highest level. A minister of education to unite two institutions, the Board of Education, the Research Institute, and the National Chemistry, as well as to bring much of the Ministry of Education to a special agency that is supposed to have initiatives and information and be directly under a minister. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: How does it feel that the procedure, at the highest level, is the case? The Minister of Education believes that it will improve the administration in the area where the Ministry of Education is, in effect, weakening or reducing it, in accordance with this rule and goals of 6. The bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I agree with that, and we had a ministry at our meeting this morning regarding the new Institute of Education. There is evidence that anyone is content with that matter. We do know, though, that the unity of these institutions did not exist. I am well aware that people want to protect their jobs and fear changes and things like that, but here they are making a transition. You don't quite realize what the real purpose is. It showed up this morning. These materials are very confusing, such as when dealing with high school. I don't think it's entirely over, I think. I don't think the professional argument is there, especially behind 1. Hey, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all. or any of the articles that reacquire these issues into the Ministry. This morning it was noted that it is among the policies of the government, that it is a personal enterprise, for example, regarding study tools. I don't think that's one of the points we've been told by the World Commission. I think it was pointing us to the many - scale arm length, to further strengthen the Ministry by expanding them, and to encourage them to have the required task. But that's actually a cross step. Yet, there is actually a minister over them because there is no control, there is going to be some professional advice. Perhaps that will be the case with other organizations that will be brought in that way that a minister continues to have that authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I have to admit that I don't fully understand this organization, but I expect that when the case comes to 2nd. it will be considered better with examples and other changes planned in councils, such as the Ministry of Education. I expect that then all of this will become clear and compatible in the change to the highest degree. The government wants to go up at the Board of Directors. I missed my first talk. Senator. I suppose she talked about 1st. which has caused most disputes. Hv. A senator comes from a Northeastern district, now taking over the operations of Fishing Room. All governments around these changes have been criticized. Now they're opening for it. We need to talk about the transfer of Fish Room, but if this change is made, it's about 1st. if the law doesn't need it, then the minister can add power to himself. Of course, the transfer of Fishing Room is in line with the average of what happened. A senator, but does she think that this is a general rule that happened to a small nation that needs formality and order?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u88	A respectable president. No, I just came into the past that, in itself, it doesn't matter which institution or structure or something of that kind. I've said that I feel that this project has an ugly spot on public employment. I pointed out, among other things, that we had a report from the EI, which had certainly suggested a transfer in Fishing Room, but in a five - year period. It is a good premise in itself. I would've wanted to see some of that. I'd prefer to see it from the government, which in its government covenant to move jobs ashore, that there was some overall plan for the structure of public work in the country. I would've wanted a professional approach. If there had been a bill on the transport of the Fish Office or some other government agency, I would have wanted us to have a professional discussion on the subject to the people who had the most contact with a particular agency, because some institutions can live anywhere while others live more where the heart of the administration is. I would've wanted some answers from the highest. Prime Minister, because I see that he has entered the hall, regarding what was mentioned earlier today, the removal of a fishing lab was performed. Is that true, or does that decision still remain uncut? I had more questions to the highest level. Minister I hope he seeks to answer. I think it's always best to do this professionally. In view of the answers the Ministry gave to a member of Parliament regarding the transfer of public institutions, there is no room for any other organizations, at least not soon. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u89	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. By permission of the president, the bill text says: The main changes proposed in the bill are primarily aimed at increasing flexibility in Iceland's Management Board so that governments will be better able to respond to new government challenges with practical wisdom and to plan their work in accordance with policy priorities and the most professional and most practical challenges. The legislation, therefore, is primarily responsible for improving the flexibility of the Management Board's work. Now, a respectable president, I can well agree that in some cases it is possible to improve the flexibility of the Commission work, but it is important to review a discussion of administrative matters in a thorough investigational committee and a report by the Parliamentary Committee that discussed the report of the research committee. The Senate report discusses the comments of the committee, and it shows the importance of a review of the European Commission's legislation. It was done. This review was well prepared and produced in the Ministry of Presidency in consultation with the administrative and administrative specialists and based on the study report and the Senate report. It was also produced in a report entitled The Samhent Administration, published in December 2010. In the introduction of this report, experts who organized the committee that wrote it say by permission of the president: To achieve the aim of improving the flexibility between recruitment and institutions, the Commission's work programme ensures that knowledge and human resources are fully used and is being developed in its policy-making and information flows to the general public. The changes made in 2011 and were given extensive coverage and discussions at the Assembly Hall were just to enhance the flexibility. The same goal is for these changes as presented here. They are the main: General authorization by the Minister to determine the establishments, increase the flexibility of planning recruitment and increasing the mobility of employees, as well as other changes that are smaller or have been less discussed at this stage of the case, but may be further discussed when the bill comes from the committee to the 2nd Environment. The general secretary's authority to determine the establishment of the institutions has received the most discussions and is causing the most anxiety around this bill. Big words have been made. I'd like to, before we continue to quote BHM's comments about the bill that the company has published. I want to quote them, by permission of the President: It is well to believe that the authority to determine the location and transport of the government should be at the General and that this decision should be decided by the General Assembly at any given time. By doing so, ministers will avoid making a very special decision regarding Kingdom transport. Such decisions can be very difficult for employees and their families. Thus, it is not in accordance with democratic practices to delegate dictatorial authority to determine where such institutions should be, as expected in the bill. The transition to the bill increases the risk of loose conduct and can further encourage every government change and/or minister trade, change of institutions, merged, put down, or transferred to a related cost, noise and discomfort that could directly compromise the staff's security and prevent their rights to another degree. There is a need for firm adherence to the Commission's institutions. Such firmness is important to all interested persons, whether to individuals or to interest groups that interact with the Ministry, to their employees, or to government agencies that hear them. According to BHM, it is consistent with the opinion of the community in recent years, to promote legal authority and the General as an institution, and to reduce the impact of the European Commission. To support this BHM view, a report by the General Commission is discussed. A respectable president. I agree with this opinion of BHM and warn that this change will be made. As mentioned here today and in discussions about the bill before, i.e. When the changes in the law were made in 2011, the General Commission report and other reports based on it were conducted. It covers the importance of strengthening the administration and the importance of a particular flexibility and so forth, while the basic tone was that even a small nation needs formality and formal procedures in the administration of an even larger country. It is because of acquaintance relationships that are everywhere and the danger of being tempted to compromise between professional and financial views. I am deeply concerned that this article, if it becomes legal, will make stewards a little difficult. It may also be good for a manager to have a certain process of living as a minister because they are under law, but if he has free hands, he is put in a particular problem with the voters in his own district. A major transport pressure may arise. I can mention, for example, because it has been spoken of here today, that most South American senators are in a Senate hearing that has been introduced during this term, and they also moved during the last term to transport the Motion Guard to the south at Keflavour Airport. I am among the others at that church arrangement, and as such I am a follower, I believe I have both professional and financial arguments. The results have been analyzed, and the result has been reached, but I as a member of the council and one of the representatives of this council clause do not agree with the conclusion of that report. I could think of the fire if a Southern gentleman became the Minister of the Interior. Then, of course, I would insist that he would in the shelter of such an open source be quick to move the National Guard to the Cheflavour Airport, which would be the will of the council members of the district and voters there. Such an open source therefore carries the risk of a world in a small community, apart from its consequences. We've watched the tide and how it has been achieved with the idea of moving Fishing Agency to the north. I've lived in Akureyri myself. It's good to live there. I'm not making comments on the fact that agencies are being exported to the country, but it has to be good, professional and financial reasons. It must be given a good time, especially with caring institutions for employees in mind and given them a good amount of time. Of course, governments and ministers may have the goal of moving institutions to shore, and it's all very good to say, but it's important that there's a process around it, there's not some idea, something that's good for the Minister in his own jurisdiction or the prime minister or whatever it is now. We need to put our hands around these things that we can trust and are likely to increase respect and trust in the European Commission. We witnessed a recent, dignified president that a fishing - street business in the country decided to change its organization and invited the staff to move. I can quite mention which company this is, of course, I'm talking about Visist, and I'm talking about Louis. Now I'm not saying that living in Grindavik is bad, but it's a lot of pressure for families to leave their homes to keep their jobs, I don't talk about in areas where homes cannot be sold at prices. [[But the ones who...?]] This is an example of a private company that takes work from the West and Easterns through planning changes and moving to Grinsavík. This can, therefore, be done so by the law, even though it has the legal right to manage the nation's resources. Of course, when we are talking about jobs, we want the country to be inhabited - with an active regional policy, we want to do so. While we may be watching official jobs in the country, we need to be careful that this is done by approved procedures, taken into consideration for employees, and that there is no doubt about professional and financial evidence for transport. An article involving the general secretary's authority to determine the establishment of the institutions does not offer increased respect for public government. I'm worried about that, the respectable president, if this article becomes a law, that it will contribute to loose conduct and even chaos in certain areas of the administration, because bringing an institution should not be a daily bread or a part of some flexibility, it should be a sound argument, and it should take a good time. When an institution is laid down, it also needs to consider where it is best for the administration. In some cases, it may be very beneficial to have a administrative unit in Reykjavík, where you can get to conferences and lunch meetings. In other cases, it may be most beneficial to have the administrative unit in the country. All of this needs to be evaluated and discussed, but it is not my knowledge to give a minister an open license to conduct it as he pleases, but we need to take up the conference at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u90	Thank you. A senator for a good and balanced speech and to review the conclusions of BHM and the concerns of members of the BHM series of prime minister's bill. We have discussed much of the decision made by the prime minister to put down the current co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administrations here. Now's the time. A member of the council suggests that the establishment of the National Council of America should be agreed by a member of the council. Therefore, I would like to know if the senator believes that the establishment of the Council of America can have a good effect on the administration. If so, how?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Now I do not have a report with the petition in front of me, but it cites similar advice in other countries and cites the experience of those who are considered to be good. So all I can say is that I believe in it. I think it's important for us to have that kind of advice, and we're supposed to look to other countries, their experience, and how that advice has worked. I'm ready to take this discussion when it comes to delivering the synonym, so I'll have the report in front of me. But first and last, I'm a member of the Parliament's resolution and I'm speaking for her. I believe that such advice will affect the administration and head of government decision making.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u92	I appreciate the answer. Senator. This is exactly what I have in mind to suggest for a hearing, and I apologize for having spoken about a messenger instead of a importer. The importance of the ethical perspective on decisions, policies, and follow-up everywhere in public. It is important that this ethics site be independent and independent of the choice of missions and lawsuits. So I wondered, and I felt very good at it. A senator brings up the fact that the proposed article refers to ethics committees in our neighboring countries and how they have helped to make better and more informed decisions. This is what I am trying to relate to the decision made by the Prime Minister to put down the current coordination committee on moral standards for the administrations and to bring the decision into the table of the Ministry of Presidency, where there is no obligation whether anyone else should come to that decision but the prime minister himself. So I'd like to know and ask myself, " What is it? ' A senator has a clear view of this decomposition of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u93	A respectable president. What I'm worried about is the best decision I've ever made. Governments, and that doesn't just apply to the highest. Prime Minister, it seems that ministers did not somehow learn from the mistakes we made here before a crash, since we did all kinds of things that showed that we did not know what it meant to be a small nation. Being a small nation means that we need further advice, formal procedures, and disciplined administration. It may take longer. While the community of acquaintances offers a quick decision, there is a danger that they may not be calm. It may not be cool or exciting to follow a certain course of action and to set up any advice that deals with matters from many sides and can take a long time that is okay if you are not camping for one night. But anything that aims to discipline the administration and make it stronger in the process, I want to work to that end. But this bill, with its changes, is going in the opposite direction. That's why I'm worried. Therefore, I hope that the committee will consider the bill and examine it with comments from the Allied Research Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u94	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. The first thing that beats you in reading this bill is how prominent that power is, even to my eyes, but I am a bit of a replacement here at the General Assembly, which is being transferred to Ministers, and especially Prime Ministers, at the expense of professional, difficult, and well - prepared reflexes. I think that part of the reason why few people in the United States have confidence and faith in governments is exactly a lack of professional practices, and the great time sometimes goes on to discuss a case at the General Assembly rather than deal with the big political lines that I would have thought we should discuss here and argue about, for it is quite normal that we have different political priorities and that we deal with different political ideals. As far as I'm concerned, we have to agree on the rules of ethic, standards, and tactics we put ourselves on how we deal with the politics. I don't feel that we're on the right track there. It's like a lot of sledgehammers. Councilmen who have addressed the discussion before me are the first thing I pause to do, perhaps the nature of the matter, paragraph 1. in the bill, which says, by permission of the President: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. Like other whales. Councilmen are the first thing that comes to my mind. In general, I would like to say that I would probably consider moving jobs or agencies from Reykjavík. That must be, in fact, one of the things that need to be considered from time to time, i.e. how jobs and institutions are distributed throughout the country. But instead of simply moving on to transport an institution without any preparation and without the need for any support in the law, because it really is the relief that comes with this bill, I would have thought that a more successful plan would be to make a plan for some future, a complete plan, and then work according to it. As noted in the recent discussions, it does not appear that the current government's policy is to export organizations to land, at least not to the limit of any answers we might ask about Björn Valur son of Gíslason. A deputy member of the left movement ◯ green supply. That's what I wanted to say about 1st par. Another article that I stopped at and got pretty thinking about is 4. g., which, in fact, is very low and is very short, a little more than half a line or so. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Instead of the word "formable " at 1 mgr. 1 1. The law comes: important. In comment we will discuss some of the articles of this bill, about a change in the law on the Council of Control. ..... that the place of the word must come to an important time. But then I ask, why not formalize? What else? We're here on the Council of Control. Isn't that supposed to be formal communication? In the coverage of Article 4. says also, by permission of the president: ▪ It may be obvious that the emphasis on communication is more important than what it contains a serious fault. Thus, important information may be provided in informal relations as well as in formal relationships. It is true that of course, important information may appear at all kinds of places, so it can appear in a coffee shop rather than in a formal field. However, since we're talking about the Management Board and the most important institutions in our society, is it not necessary that if important things are involved, they be adopted in a formal manner and recorded in a proper way? If this is to be made up of these laws, from formal communication to important, you must ask: Who is it to evaluate when something is important, and what criteria should be used to assess the importance of communication? As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Early today, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson has a procedure on what should be considered as a formal communication. I'm sorry I haven't given all to study the rules where I've been bound here in the council hall, but in view of the fact that the definition of formal communication is much closer to having such a definition than to taking up more sacred expressions because what one might consider important, it may not be that someone else thinks so important. Finally, I'd like to jump to 8. The bill. It sounds like this, with President's permission: ◯25. par. The law says: The Ministry of Presidency gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of ethics in case of follow-up, provides educational training on them within the Board of Directors, and monitors their purpose. This is, in fact, making quite a change from what is currently in the current law in which a seven - man co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administration is replaced with the Ministry of Presidency. In the co-ordination committee, two directors will be selected on the basis of their expertise in administrative and moral matters. In other words, they should be replaced by the Ministry of Presidency in order to advise on the interpretation of ethical principles in the following cases. I think it's quite a weakness on how we're going to use ethics, because how good or sensitive it is as a sitting prime minister's moral judgment at any given time, however, do we feel that the right to interpret should lie with him? It's natural, so I'm going to let it go, a big, big, important party in everything that happens. Should he then have self - control in his own matters? At least it makes me believe that if a professional committee has these matters, there will be real moral standards followed. Of course, there are a few more articles in this bill than they all fall in the same direction: The value of professional tasks is reduced, but ministers are increased. As I said in the beginning, I think that part of the little trust and the little belief that the public has in the government has come just because we lack such a professional practice. They will not be increased by bringing all the power to the Ministry of Presidency, on the contrary. I think I'll finish my case, i.e. The vocal cords at least have decided that I will close my case here, but I would like to finally say that this bill is not at all meant to improve the Iceland Board of Governments but, rather, to make them weaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u95	President. I'm mostly here to join with what's happened. A member of the council, pointing out that in this discussion all of our attention has been very focused on 1 st. This is a huge change, and it's like a sledgehammer. A senator named them 4. Not much of itself, changing formalities to important, but that's exactly what it is, I think, one of the laws on Iceland's Management Board, i.e. ... theforming'sokay. Like what? One senator said: "Who is to judge what is important, and if something is important, then we need to take it up in order to have it delivered? Well, that's exactly what the board of administration is, I think. On the one hand, the senator mentioned 8 paragraph. Little that was discussed when we discussed this before the weekend, but more has been discussed today. [[Up front.]] I agree with the senator that it seems quite freely to me when officials in the Ministry of Presidency are to be judged, according to a man, in the moral code. I'm going to ask the senator if she feels that there's a reason for calling a committee like this, as I think it is in this case, that there were not so many issues directed to her. Even if there are not many cases, the committee need not be unnecessary. [[The president calls.]] The subjects it discusses may be few but very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u96	V.E.G. President. No, I don't think there's any evidence in this case that few cases were addressed to the committee to discuss moral matters, which please, I'm just saying. But because of the nature of the issues such a committee must deal with, we must want it to operate at any given time. If something arises, it does not have to be in the setting. Rather, it is prepared, and the matter can take its turn and be discussed on the committee how it grows, the channel exists. I repeat, there is absolutely no evidence that such a committee is not active at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u97	A respectable president. First, thanks for the discussion has become a custom. It was something else in this conversation that was relatively interesting. She started quite well, but soon, apparently, in a discussion about the transport of Fishing Room. But it's not the subject that's being discussed here. It's the bill to correct the law of the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. I'm still going, just in a few words, if a respectable president gives me room to do that, to discuss the transport of Fish Labs, since men have made the subject here, not the situation at hand. I have learned that during the discussion, people have conducted some things that do not measure up to that point. For example, it is said that the business of Fishing in Akureyri is in some way unremarkable. I find it very strange, especially, to hear such things from members of the Northeast standard. In Akureyri, everything is all the way to get to work there and do it very well. The University of Akureyri has been specialized in learning for a long time, which will be of great benefit to this institution. At the same time, it has been claimed that it is completely unacceptable to tear down the Agency with its roots and transport it with a man and a mouse. It doesn't exist and never has. As mentioned at the outset, this has always been planned to work with the staff there so that this can work best for the employees and the Agency at the same time. Is there no reason to believe that this will be possible in the very more powerful Fishing Room in Akureyri? I'm going to be content with a discussion about the transport of Fish Labs. That's not part of the program here, it's a bill to correct the Management Board of Iceland. Any senator I'd like to jump up here to continue a discussion on the transport of Fish Room could be disappointed with the rest. Yet, I may feel that if others are added, I am moved to correct the wrong. I was happy. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bearnadóttir was Bjarnadóttir, as if I were happy. paritaprevir Last night, Páll Árnason, I am suddenly a source of joy here at the council, and I do not find it boring to be able to contribute to a greater joy in this chamber. There's a lot of joy on this bill. It's designed to make the Council of Control even better, i.e. The purpose, as described in the bill with these changes, is to remedy the abuses that have been identified since the European Commission of No. 115 went into effect in 2011. But as you may expect - and there is nothing unusual about it, a respectable president - there is a position of government in the case of government laws, laws dealing with the management board's practices that make it feel suspicious of the government. It was just the same in 2011 when we were discussing the bill of the then existing government on the Council of Government. I'll be the first to admit that we were many of the most suspicious of the changes that were then introduced because we had little confidence in the government that was making those changes. Nevertheless, the laws that were then agreed upon are being strictly maintained, but only to act on the necessary improvements. However, some of these improvements seem to be misunderstood, even as some of them were. Councilmen who have expressed themselves in the matter have not studied the law as it was before, believing that with the terms of changes designed to accomplish even more fully the purpose of the original law, they are somehow being back when they are actually moving further toward the goal of the original law. I'll give you an example. That's the discussion on the registration of information. There they began to guess what governments were doing or the minister with the bill and even to conclude that these must be meant to keep an unusual list of citizens and their activities. Of course, it is not as if those who worked on the bill back then know it. This work is being continued which has been completed since the Aldus Research Committee report was published, showing the importance of increasing government formality and the importance of defending the right of citizens' rights to write things, to be transferred to a book, to what governments were doing, and to how business matters were handled. So that the purpose of this is not at all to record information that is not to be found at all, obviously, to violate privacy of people, but to ensure even more fully what was ever intended to ensure by the Board of Directors in the following indications in the General Report on the importance of increased formality in the Council of Government. Such changes in wording have been followed by such talk of an important relationship, rather than of ◯ formal communication, when it comes to being able to communicate in a government or document it. This is, in effect, an extension of the duties laid upon stewards rather than making it easier for them to do so because it can be very difficult to determine what to consider as formal relations. Some have reasoned that it is so difficult and actually impossible to draw there some limit that all contact with governments can be classified as formal communication, comments on Facebook page that are therefore possible. As a result, it was unavoidable to explain further what was meant, what was being achieved here, the objective of all important communication, communication that can influence decision making, decision making, or decisions made by the government itself are made. The so - called leak issues have been discussed over the past few days. To put this into context, it can be noted that the controversial communication with the chief of police in the capital area could not be considered formal, as shown by an agent's opinion. So this is, in effect, a growing burden on politicians and no reason to be suspicious of them. On the other hand, regarding the possibility of making changes in the Board of Directors, some of them have had difficulty. Councilmen who have discussed this aspect of the matter have reasoned that it is somehow affecting the rights of employees. This is not quite the case because the bill says that employees should be brought up in accordance with the obligatory requirement, firstly, a head's approval in the Ministry or the institution where the person is working, and that the employee's approval is needed to be accepted by the employee and most important of all, the employee's consent is required. So this is only a possibility for personnel in the Management Board or institutions who are subject to it to move to a job if the person wants to do so himself. So it is very strange to criticize such possibilities, but I think it is safe to say that most public employees would like to have such a possibility. I don't think there are many public employees who really want to work in a stationary environment, and this is where the Board of Directors and Their Organizations and their institutions enter the 21st century, and it's not least useful to those who have the opportunity to gain a different experience, grow in work, move between, perform new roles that they enjoy even more than they used to. All of this, therefore, looks forward to improvement, a respectable president. At the end, I reiterate what I entered at the beginning that this is mainly a refinement in view of the experience established on the European Commission. In fact, it is in particular to raise the value of ethical rules in relation to the previous, end, so I now witness back to the Council's agent, it may be considered that only government authorities have been available to establish ethical rules but not mandatory, but here is an even greater obligation on the Presidency Office, not least on the top of the standards of the Council of Government and to raise their importance. But also as well as just keeping in mind, a respectable president, remains in order to consult the National Institute of Morality in Iceland, although the nature of ethics is that of men themselves, that it is the rules they want to work on. Nevertheless, it is maintained that the University of Iceland should be consulted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u98	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for the fine and meaningful answers he gave in his talk. My concern about this bill is primarily 1. By means of the open and limitless permission of Ministers to determine the transfer of institutions. I have in my case an example of a Fish Room because she is in Hafnarfjörður because she was transferred to Hafnarfjörður because the then minister was a member of the Hafnarfjörður. Now there are the same groups in the government and have a different policy suggested that the headquarters move, or a large part of the operation at least, to Akureyri. The Agency is then completely exposed to this open law for the next Minister who could take over two years or three years and be moved by Selephoss. That's why I wonder at the highest. Minister: Is it not a matter of fact that the authority to transport is more limited than expected to be there to allow for some restrictions, even if it were not for an institution to be transferred only once every 15 years or so? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u99	A respectable president. I'm sure that's a point you're thinking about. A senator with the work ahead of him. In fact, I think that he overemphasizes the risk of being brought back and forth through the country according to who is the minister of the seminary at any given time, and I think that it may be rather advanced to claim that the Fishing Room or its headquarters are located in Hafnarfjörður only because a sea emissary at its time was from Hafnarfjörður. In fact, a fishing clinic works all over the country, and it often forgets in this discussion that although the headquarters is moving in Akureyri, where they live very well, including. with a line that I traced just earlier, it is not being put off the operations of the Fish Room in Hafnarfjörður, and it is actually possible to perform this transfer over time in a way that has caused minimal control of the Agency's activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u100	A respectable president. I'm celebrating the Honourables. Prime Minister and would like to continue trying to work on some agreement in these matters. I think it would have been possible to find a more successful way to get the ideas of transporting Fish Room if people had sat down and decided to do this in a few years, and I think it's the best. The prime minister is speaking toward such things. Is it not reasonable to try to import a transport authority in a specific way so that this is not some kind of threat to every institution at any given time? Rather, it is a means of creating a channel for putting ourselves together over the task of transporting some of the institutions, such as the Supreme Court. In the case of a Fish Room, if there is a physical issue, do prime minister run in the case of a local fish lab, thus preventing uncertainty about the transfer of governments and the rise of a new political attitude?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u101	A respectable president. I don't believe it's the highest. A seafaring minister has, as he has actually explained, always assumed that this transfer would be over time and in a way that would cause the least problems for employees. Today, there is still work on the export of this involved workers, so the secretary's will has always been done. Of course, it is very important that governments are able to ensure basic measures, such as the specific distribution of public activity across the country. To date, the current has been all - more or less - in one direction without any news when dozens of jobs, even hundreds of jobs, have moved from the region and to the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u102	A respectable president. I'm just gonna get us here, at least, the government council members of the Northeast District, to defend us. I don't think any of us have taken a specific example of Fish Room, i.e. The transfers to Akureyri per se, which has been negative, but all those here have expressed themselves on the methodology. That's what it's all about, the methodology. That is what we are most critical and then by means of the arrangement that appears to be in parsity. This bill of law. Because there was an ENS report on the topic of Fish Room and a five-year-old prosse in it, I'd like to ask the minister if there was anything in the report, if he knows. Was it permitted to move a fishing lab on the basis of current laws? And he thinks this arrangement is better, i.e. that a minister alone can decide this rather than bring in the affairs of the institutions that a minister of any time intends to move or would want to do? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u103	A respectable president. I tried to remind you at the beginning of my speech that this was not a discussion about the transfer of Fishing Room, but I'll react to any comment. A senator who claims that criticism is merely a matter of methodology. In other words, this important matter, which is a factor in increasing the number of public jobs in the country, is under way of methodology, but the criticism is not based on the methodology used but on the methodology that has been claimed to have been applied. There has never been a complete transfer of the Agency from Hafnarfjörður in one day with a man and a mouse, as was ever held here in this hall. They have always been there to work with employees to ensure that they could ask for it in a way that would not harm employees; nor would it be a primary opportunity for them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u104	A respectable president. I'd need five minutes to probably do that. I'm not going to get my mouth kicked. The prime minister that unity was involved in this business of fishing, he opened up the discussion of that matter himself just now. It's about methodology and it's about 1. ... abouta minister's decision. I asked: Does he think it's better than that such transfer would go through the council? Were they allowed to move? Then I asked in my speech, and I haven't heard the answer, about a special administrative court mentioned here, whether a minister would imagine him, and in what categories of cases it would most be. I also asked about a committee in the Board of Directors and was given specific tasks, including those of the Board of Directors. To determine the state's position, strengths and weaknesses and to what independent administrative committees are entitled to, i.e. They won't be found a place inside the council. Enters the bottom of the page. 8 In comment to the bill that there is reason to shape the legislation on which such independent administrative committees are entitled to work within the Board of Directorates, which includes the task. This was directed to him in my earlier talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u105	A respectable president. When it comes to the bill that a committee is working on evaluating which administrative committees this should address, they can be successful. A senator would hardly expect me to read about it here. So, what would be the job of the Committee, the professional work involved in evaluating this, if Ministers should attend here and announce what the conclusion should be about the committee? [[Up front.]] However, in terms of the location of the institutions, I think, a respectable president, it would be extremely unusual to start binding it to the law of the institutions. We're always trying to develop the administration and make it better for public service in the country, which also means that we have to be in tune with time. [[Up front.]] We must give public employees the opportunity to move between the institutions, and we must have a set time for the rulers of the institutions to conduct them in a way that will benefit the citizens of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u106	A respectable president. I'm going to have to grieve at the highest. Prime Minister, I'm going to talk about Fish Room. This implied that the members of the district council were resisting the move and speaking against it. It wasn't like that, just to be mentioned here, it was just the work around it. I want to reiterate a question as supreme. The prime minister was given earlier: Was a report made by the Council of EI, published in 2004 during this move? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister if this treatment was considered strictly professional and good, as it was at the time of the announcement of the transfer that the staff did not even know about it. Since then, I've been able to gulp it better that this move was to be completed within a year, but now all of this is supposed to take five years, or what? I don't get it. I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u107	A respectable president. First of all, I wasn't trying to suggest that certain members of the district had been opposing the transport of the Fish Room, as has been said in the statements of the day. Councilmen here in this room and in the media. For continued comments to the methodology, such as the comment that fell by reason of the question. A senator mentioned earlier that it was quite impossible for the staff of the Fish Room to know nothing of the existence of moving the Agency's headquarters until they were informed of this. Then there is no other answer but that people don't know of things until they are informed of them unless they find out by hookways. [[Up front.]] It would have been very unnatural to make these decisions behind the scenes without telling employees. The minister thought that a lot of normal and honest people would be allowed to know at the earliest possible opportunity what they could do, and he would work with his staff to get the best of the work done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u108	A respectable president. So, do I get it so that the staff of the Fish Room got the news before they were transferred to the annual meeting of the Business Development Society of Akureyri, wasn't that where it was? It was good then to know. Something else I don't know about is that if we're getting caught up in the district of Congress talking against this move that's just not right at all, but I think a little old-fashioned that if bad work practices are going on, you should be happy because it can serve the interests of the district. It's just that you talk against bad practices, no matter what the average thing you're in. Again, I say: I don't really understand this discussion. I would like to know if the staff knew in advance. It's no wonder we're discussing this because 1st. it seems directly set here to allow this move to be carried out, and it is not surprising that members of the council discuss it. Just so it's repeated, there's nothing wrong with moving the headquarters of the Fish Room north to Akureyri, but it's going to be a real challenge and making it professional, as always, when we move government agencies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u109	A respectable president. It's all an excuse. They're trying to be as professional as possible. So I'll come back to my first remark. The senator, the question of whether the staff of the Fish Room had been allowed to know that this transport existed before the report was made north, is yes. A special staff meeting was arranged with the workers so that they could first find out what they were doing. However, it was reported about this meeting within minutes after it was announced at a meeting with the staff. In the case of professional work, the main thing, if we are fully agreed that the Fishing Room is fit in Akureyri, is to focus on how to carry out the project effectively. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The minister of the sea and the Ministry has truly been invited and prepared to work to achieve the best possible outcome. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u110	A respectable president. I don't intend to evaluate whether it's better for a fish lab to be in Akureyri or in Hafnarfjördur, but I noticed at the top. When it was said that this was a talk about the transfer of Fish House, the bill is not about the transport of Fishing Room, according to him. Sometimes I get confused because I listen to the highest. Minister. I have to admit, I'm no bigger than this. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Isn't it possible to transport a Fish Room with the warrant - and I reiterate - with the authority contained in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u111	A respectable president. The reason I put into words that this issue was not about the transfer of Fish Room. Rather, the changes in Iceland's Council of Government were the discussion that took place today and before the weekend, and it was primarily about the transport of Fishing Room. It's the law of the law as it is. A senator refers to a law that existed until 2011 when it failed to appear to be a special objective of changing the law, as it had been set up for a purpose, so that there was no doubt that a minister could organize his ministry and its subsidiary. It may well be that this law may apply when it comes to transporting Fish Room, but this may also refer to a number of other issues and many other forms of the bait being discussed or should be considered, with nothing to do with the transfer of Fishing Room. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u112	A respectable president. I'm even more confused than I used to be. I understand the last words. The prime minister so that he needs the authority available on this bill so that a Fishing Agency can be brought to Akureyri, which may well be a good and blessed provision without a bill, without presenting it as a bill in the high Council. That's how I understand. Minister. Now I've spoken English for about 35 years and I feel a little weird, maybe it's my fault, that I don't understand. How in the world could it be that this legal authority is needed to transport Fish Labs and still at the highest level? Minister when discussing the transport of Fish Room? I don't take any material position on the move myself, but when it's the highest. Ministers say that the transfer of Fish Room has nothing to do with the case, I don't understand one extra word at the end. Minister. Maybe he can help me understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u113	A respectable president. So I try to explain this clearly and clearly at the end of the discussion, there's nothing wrong with men in this debate about the transport of Fish Labs. What I was trying to point out is that the main ingredient of the bill is not about the transport of Fishing Room. In fact, the transfer of Fish Office is not mentioned in these proposals to change the law. So that the whole discussion, more or less, had been centered around the Fish Room, was somewhat peculiar, and at that I allowed myself to point. So I come back to a question. The senator's need to change this law or to make a decision that agencies can operate elsewhere but in Reykjavík, he has been advised that, at the very moment, it can be said that the Fishing Room must not be in Hafnarfjörður, because all institutions must be in Reykjavík. Of course, that is an arrangement that everyone must be able to agree not to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u114	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of Schengen information system laws in Iceland. This is about a change in law No. 16/2000, the Schengen Information System in Iceland, prepared for the introduction of three types of the European Union due to Iceland's contract to the Schengen Community. In addition, the bill has provided two changes to support the state of state surveillance as a result of registration in the Schengen information system. The changes described above are attributed to the implementation of the current law for the new generation of the Schengen Information System, in particular SIIS II. The Schgeren information system is an important tool in the cooperation of Icelandic and European police personnel. The network, which is an electronic dataset from 30 European countries for use in the entire Schengen area, is designed to rely on monitoring on the external borders of the Schengen area and to improve the cooperation of the EU police authorities in preventing and eliminating violations. It is important that information is effectively and safely mediated through the database, but it is important that the regulations that apply to the free movement of people in the Schengen area are readily followed. The new generation of the Schengen Information System is comparable to the system currently in use, except that the new system provides updating information in line with technical innovations of the past few years. The main changes in the new system are based on the older information systems currently in use and consists mainly of increasing the amount of information that can be recorded into the Schengen information system, including authorization to register keypressors and make up of the reported persons in the system, as well as registration of the system's arrest directives in cases where such arrests have been issued by the competent authority of the Schengen State. It is then assumed that there will be a link between a registration in the system and thereby a venk between two or more files in the system. The bill also suggests changes in the surveillance role of Peritoneal protection as a result of registration in the Schengen information system. The aim of the change is to trust the role of the State Marshal of State Protection, as well as the decisions of the State Marshal now subject to Persian protection. It should be noted that SISS II was initiated in all Schengen Community states in April 2013, but the national registration provider, in particular the U.S. Marshal's International Department, has not started registration of fingerprints or photographs into the system nor established connections between files. This has not begun until this law has been passed. In the setting of the bill, the Ministry was specifically looking for the reviews of state police and Persian protection, as well as for official review on the Ministry's Web site at the beginning of September. It was endeavoring to give full consideration to all the comments received at the bill. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u115	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize criminal treatment laws, No. 88 June 12, 2008, with subsequent changes, police law, No. 90/1996, with subsequent changes, general penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes, and more layers. The bill proposes the future order of the prosecution here in the country and the field of research and criminal prosecution, as well as the demolition of a special prosecutor's office. In general, the bill is going out to promote and strengthen the nation's prosecution, including promoting the management and monitoring role of the district attorney, promoting the practicality and better and efficient management procedures, and, above all, improving justice. Then the bill aims that the expertise and experience that have developed, e.g. In the field of research and the prosecutors of complex tax law and economic crime and sexual immorality, they will not be destroyed nor will they be moved to the district attorney's office. The bill suggests that the prosecution's arrangements will be made on two counts of prosecution, such as has been. The district attorney will still be the high governor of the prosecution, while the sheriffs and one parallel of the district attorney's office will be sullied at a lower level of prosecution. The change will be according to the bill in a gross way that the district attorney's application for the district attorney and the sheriff's office will be moved from the district attorney to the district attorney and the sheriff. They will move to the local district attorney's office of special prosecutors, the state police Department of money and projects that will not be properly placed in place with other police and prosecutions, such as an investigation of the intended criminal offenses of the police on the execution of the job. As these tasks change, they will be produced safely and effectively in as few institutions as possible. The evidence for these changes is complex. (b) Why is there a need for legal action? No. 88/2008, of their new level of prosecution, the local prosecutors should remain unmistakably on January 1, 2016, but the conviction of the arrest has been responsibly suspended since the execution of the criminal Act of January 1, 2009. The most important evidence behind the office of the district attorney was that the prosecution's arrangements were to be in such a way that a decision could always be made to cancel the case or fail the prosecution to a higher prosecution, but according to the current arrangement it is not possible to sue such decisions for a state prosecutor, e.g. in sexual acts of crime. This argument still valid, however, has raised doubts about the need to establish the third level of prosecution. The bill is designed to present a simpler and more practical solution to the problem mentioned, while at the same time improving some of the other issues of the current prosecution's current order, as well as finding future solutions for research and economic prosecutions. Law No. 135/2008, for the office of special prosecutors, is expected to be temporary. The office of special prosecutors was set up to supervise the investigation of criminal conduct on the grounds and in relation to the special and very unusual conditions of the financial market in 2008 and after its release, prosecution, and prosecution. The aim of the legislation on the office of special prosecutors was to work toward the primary objective of the emergency law so as to strengthen the confidence of the public in the financial system. It was under the law that it would operate temporarily and that at its decomposition, the office would disappear to other prosecutors and police services in accordance with the general police regulations and legal procedures. The General agreed to change the law on the office of a special district attorney in 2011 and received the office a permanent role on September 1, 2011, when all the work of the U.S. Marshal's Department of Economics was moved to the office. At the same time, the General Assembly adopted provision for temporary hearings in the legal office of special prosecutors that a special committee would be appointed to review the organization and the preparation of research and the application of economic charges. The Commission was aimed at suggesting that the overall structure of such research within one institution in order to make it more efficient and more efficient and to ensure the best use of funds intended for this purpose. The order of economic crime studies in other parts of the North countries would then be considered. The Committee gave a minister a proposal, along with a report presented at the General Assembly in 2013, and the proposals of the Committee are presented in the bill. The General Committee discussed the subject of the report and gave an article on the proposals of the Committee. The committee's opinion agrees with the report on the need to further research on economic crime. The committee reasoned that before a decision would be taken to determine the best way to the future, further application of the suggestions would be needed, to prepare laws needed to bring about these changes, and to provide full suggestions on how such an institution could operate. At the same time, the costs of the proposed change would have to be assessed. The Commission then stated that when a new arrangement is established and the change is implemented, a minister should ensure that a criminal suitation and analysis of the economy would be placed within the current system so that the work would be carried out properly and the city's rights will be ensured. It is important that the experience and knowledge that have been built up in the office of the special prosecutor continue to complete the research and follow up of the major issues associated with the economic collapse to the end of the courts. This point is very important to me. I tore up the content of the General Commission's opinion here because it contains very important guidance in completing issues related to the economic collapse in order to ensure that the ultimate level of justice will be protected. In accordance with the views presented by the General Commission, the bill estimates that commitment will be made in the current case of a special prosecutor. It is suggested that the office of the special prosecutors be submitted from July 1, 2015, as per a court order, from that day forward the new district attorney's office will be taken in an investigation, a lawsuit and a prosecutor in all cases carried out by a special prosecutor. The district attorney thus completes the work initiated by special prosecutors and accepts the permanent task of a special district attorney in the area of tax and economic crime. At the same time, the local district attorney's office accepts property and commitments from the same time to special prosecutors. The same is true of illegal financial or tax laws for 2015. In 2015, a financial committee was made up of a thorough account of the network of special prosecutors and the activities of the office. The annual cost of the office has dropped from 1,253 million in 2012 to about 920 million in 2014, and the number of annual jobs has decreased accordingly. Under budget for 2015, 292 million are to be spent in the office of the special prosecutor, but it is in line that the office will be submitted on July 1st and a new local district attorney will begin working on a new basis. As we have seen, it is important to agree with the important work that the district attorney and the office of special prosecutors and State Marshals are now working on and the district attorney was about to take over. Inevitably, the new office will provide adequate financial resources based on the financial judgment of the Ministry, which says that this new office has not been expected in the 2015 budget. Now, I'm going to move on to the individual details of the bill and first come to the role of the district attorney in a new system. The bill aims to promote the activities of the district attorney and, in particular, the management and monitoring role of the office. This allows room for the transfer of the prosecution from the office. It is important that the government attorney general's office will be made available to implement general prosecution policies, version of instructions and monitoring of a criminal investigation, the treatment of the nation's prosecution, and the international relations in that area. One aspect of this is the education and training of accusers who have been unable to work until now. At the same time, it is important that the office be able to maintain international relations in this area. However, major projects will remain in the office of the State Attorney, such as the treatment of appeals and charges due to the determination of the lower prosecution's office. These projects are expected to increase somewhat as a result of a predictable increase in charges on the decision of the lesser accused. As further explained in the bill, the role of the district attorney in other respects will be the same as it is recommended in Article 21. the treatment of criminal cases. The role of local prosecutor's office and the economic crime studies work according to the bill to make significant changes. It is expected that a new district attorney's office will be paralleled by the general law enforcement agencies within the prosecution and that the decisions made by the demolition will be prosecuted to a federal prosecutor like such police decisions. The U.S. attorney general is aimed at handling complex projects in the field of prosecutors and criminal studies that are inappropriate for the State Attorney or for the scattered police office due to the opinions of efficiency, necessary expertise and the risk of inadequacy. The establishment of this office is made up of many neglects in the present system of research and prosecutors. Their work will be quite varied and quite extensive. Thus, under the law of No, the office of the district attorney is replaced by the European Commission. 88/2008 and the office of special prosecutors under law No. I35/2008. It is suggested that the office be due to its important prosecution as the local district attorney's office, although its nature becomes quite different from that of the district attorney at the second level of prosecution, which was expected to be set up in accordance with the guidelines of the 22nd and 23. law of criminality. According to the bill, the office will administer the prosecution for most of the offenses that the prosecutor is now taking over, even though the general sheriff's office will handle the investigation as it has been. The local district attorney's office is also expected to exercise police authority in certain areas, thus caring for both the investigation and the suit of serious tax and economic crimes, the violation of the government that the sheriffs have taken care of, and the violation of police personnel in the hands of the State Attorney General. In addition, the bill states that the new district attorney's office will receive announcements on the basis of the legal basis of action against the money-blowing and financing of terrorism taken care of by the head of the state police. The plan is to promote the role that the money - disposal office has had and to trust in its independence. This is of utmost importance in view of repeated and more serious comments from the Finnish Action Board (OECD), which has the role of monitoring and taking out measures against the money theft and funding of terrorism. At a meeting of the top FAFF executives in this country last week, it was found that any further delay in Iceland's activities could affect the credibility of the Icelandic financial system. This is also another very important point that I stress deeply in the treatment of Generalis. In addition, in the bill it is suggested that one of the district attorney's work must be reimbursed and unregistered benefits of any criminal conduct associated with police investigation of his office and other police authorities. Work will be not limited to tracking and assisting in the recovery of nonstatutory benefits of tax and economic violations but also to any organized offense that is being investigated in the general police facilities, such as drug crimes, mansales, insurance frauds, and other offenses. At the local district attorney's office, there will be an expertise in this field which will benefit from all police services. In terms of the role of police authorities in the new order of the prosecution, it is assumed that police officials will be charged with appeal to criminal charges for more crimes than they can now do and will be brought to the prosecution for the violations that the district attorney has taken care of for the federal court. A respectable president. I've been explaining everything about this bill. I highlight the importance of the case and the viewpoints of the security that will be taken care of in preparing the prosecution's new system. In my opinion, this case is a big priority. With these words, I suggest that the case be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u116	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the I.R. Overseers and looking forward to discussing this matter on the committee. It's a pretty big deal. According to the bill, the local district attorney has authority in his field, and he has an investigation of certain criminal cases, a violation of the government order of the state, a violation of the government, etc. He also studies under police law, where police officers are suspected of criminal punishment. I wondered if the district attorney is independent of the police authorities and if it is not more appropriate for an independent agency to take research of the involved offenses. As I found out in my speech yesterday, I've always been particularly concerned about this relationship in Iceland, it's a small country, people being recognized, and a district attorney is saying things that are expected to be a little with the police. I'm afraid of a very close connection, and I'm wondering, as I've asked, if it's not better if it's a completely independent agency that's conducting police surveillance. Also, I'd like to ask you, "What's the highest? " The Minister of the inside sees to it that this is not the way to prepare the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. I've noticed that he's concerned that these things are all right, that it's clear that when dealing with these types of cases, there's no risk that men are colored by the environment they are in, and I ask men to take this gently. In fact, I believe the arrangement laid down here is solid. I think that now that there's a very serious way to the upper level of prosecution, we get a very important review, I think, in general, we need to take a real good look at it, but we have to make sure that that this is the case. A senator mentions people who are concerned about the government. It's called workin' like what? A senator is aware of the details of these unique factors. I believe that out of that job, we get an even clearer picture of what's best for us and I think we're here for a more efficient and more efficient system than we're living in right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u118	A respectable president. With them in advance, I haven't been in the law as deeply as I intend to do before. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will consider this as a matter of fact, that we're expected to improve the system we have. It's like the highest. I am deeply concerned with these matters, and I accept that we are at the highest level. The Minister of the Interior Minister simply disagrees on the circumstances behind this. That's good and good, we're here to discuss this more carefully on the committee, but apart from the financial cost, I'd like to hear, if the highest. The Minister of the Interior has something to say, whether or not is simply a barrier to having an independent agency that was only under police supervision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u119	A respectable president. I want to thank you again. A senator for keeping you in contact with the material in these important areas that have to do with the security of the cities. I don't know that it has been specifically considered whether it's better for someone else to take care of it than the arrangement we've made in a prosecutional organization. I think it's safe to say that I have not been examined in the manner mentioned by the senator. This bill is very important. A number of points need to be put inside them, and I know why. A senator and a boy. The General and Education Committee will do that and take care of it. The Ministry and I are, of course, ready to proceed as much as possible, but I want to finally stress the importance of this matter's getting good coverage and that we will secure justice in this country now that these changes, pass through, become the legal arrangement of the prosecution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-27-57.u120	A respectable president. I just want to do a few words on this bill and thank you very much. Minister for making a suggestion to the prosecution's future arrangements. We've been in a temporary state since 2008 because of a delay in the implementation of the district attorney arrangement and further in a temporary situation after an economic crime investigation was introduced to a special prosecutor, all of whom knew that temporary office. Hence, it is most enjoyable to have had a suggestion for the future affairs of these matters. At first glance, I find it wise in many ways to reduce costs, and in the light of economic circumstances, I understand that people disappear from the three - step pact concept. It is enough, however, that this modest change, according to financial laws, calls for half a billion in future spending beyond what was expected in a financial programme. From a discussion that has been about the future of special prosecutors and the availability of research that is currently being conducted, I also treasure hearing the words of the Supreme Court. Ministers that it is important to take good care of them, to ensure that they are investigated, and that they do not interfere with the charges that we all hope will be as soon as possible on the remainder of the matter. I'm not going to have this more word in myself at this point. I find it reasonable to think that the two components of this new office are addressed and that most of the first visions recommend going this way, but are especially happy that it has already taken place in a future arrangement. It is long ago that it is time and that it is very good to have a very clear suggestion from the highest level. A minister who can be considered for a committee.
