ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u1	The president would like to state that there is an agreement between the presidents and members of the council that a meeting today and tomorrow can last until the year 1. The 2016 budget bill is over. It is a meeting arrangement for the discussion that will be both today and tomorrow, Friday. Today, there will be a general debate over the budget bill followed by the development of financial and economic ministers and tomorrow, Friday, a discussion on the issues of individual Ministers. Economic and financial ministers have up to 30 minutes to their start, and members of all Congress have 15 minutes each. Other members of the budget have ten minutes each and every other member of Congress has five minutes each. Tomorrow, Prime Ministers will participate in the discussion, and at the end of that discussion, financial and economic ministers will proceed. The detailed arrangements for this discussion will be announced in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u2	Mr. President. I recommend a bill for the budget of 2016, the 1st case of this Council of 145. The third year in a row, the budget is put forward. The bill assumes this time 15.3 billion rest, i.e. left over the total balance, for 2016. This is equivalent to 0.7% of GDP. We expect 73 billion leftovers of initial equations during the year, equivalent to 3.1% of land production, which is more than in most neighboring countries at this time. On the other hand, the fine foundation laid for two years is built, with the appearance of a steady recovery of the Kingdom Fund in the coming years. In this regard, it should be noted that there is a better outcome in this budget than was planned for a budget of 2015, where the remainder is now expected to be over 21 billion instead of 3.5 billion on budget. This is the most economic cost - making policy during the current year, but it is also heading to a lower angle in interest to interest markets. The key elements of the 2016 financial bill are the reduction in the proportion of the state's debt and income taxation, and tolls will be decommissioned in resources, increase in housing costs, increases in old age and microenergy pensions, support of the welfare system, and contributions to innovation and development. But if there is one more than one thing that the 2016 budget guarantees and is worth paying special attention, it is the fact that we stand on water signs in the state's status, and now we have good opportunity to care for the financial debt and bring it to a better place. If we are to make good progress in implementing a budget reduction strategy as a result of improving the quality of state funds and lowering interest burden, the prospects of the Icelandic economy are positive, and the way for the nation's growth to be firmly guarded. In July 2014 to July 2015, as a result of low inflation, a decrease in home debt, a decrease in unemployment and good - looking economic growth, a significant improvement in economic stability has been observed. However, there are certain pales in the atmosphere where inflation has increased, especially as a result of the high pay rates in the existing collective agreements, and there is still some uncertainty as to how much that contract will have on demand and expansion. It also plays on the fact that there has been considerable turmoil in the world markets these last few weeks and not clear in this moment what economic developments will be experienced by major business countries. In the big picture and development of the past lost business, Iceland's business has improved with low oil prices. We do not know how long that situation will develop in a positive way for us Icelanders. It is good to bear in mind, Mr. President, that we receive regular tips from those who are monitoring the development of the situation in Iceland, now last from the Executive Director OECD, Angel Gurría, who had to say about Iceland's status at this time that we Iceland should not be too preoccupied with the development and progress of economic affairs in the large world, neither in the United States nor in China, we could have no effect on whatever the discussion would make the matter of the development of the global oil market. But the more attention and energy we need to focus on what we really can have. Of course, there are many places, even though the situation is changing with us right now, that we can do considerably better in the years to come. It is important that we have the wisdom to show our responsibility and balance in the delicate growth and economy. We need to gather together and make sure that we continue to maintain the benefits that have already been achieved on the basis of the stability, that we do not tear it down again. We should always bear in mind that the task of ensuring sustainable economic growth, promoting production, and further establishing success in terms of government interests will never be completed once and for all. It is a ongoing task. The current budget is the third - largest currency paid by the state. At a stable debt, but the total debt of the state's funds reached nearly 1,500 billion dollars. By the end of 2014, some 70 billion people need to be paid to grow. The more money is spent, the building of welfare services, the funding of society's infrastructure, and the reducing of taxes and other curses on individuals and businesses in the country. In addition to all over the state's debt, we have an unfunded pension debt of state funds. They stand for some 435 billion dollars. the number of years passed. It is anticipated that all the budgets of the State Department of Pension and Nurses Pension Fund will remain unchanged after 15 years, and they will be paid for a partner to be paid 28 billion a year directly at the state's budget. There's 28 billion a year. There'll be nothing to do. It's not that far in the future. Thus, the problem we face in this regard is considerable. Happily, a positive outlook on government matters promises that much of the problem can be handled and resolved, putting it off into the long future, that these commitments will land on the budget, or that they will prevent it. Because of the budget bill, we're taking a step in that direction. A bill of debt, that $ 145 billion, published by the state's budget to finance Iceland's National Bank will be paid up to the next spring. We will lower the position of this letter to the latter part of this year until next year, but at the latest by the middle of the next year, we will have made it fully. Otherwise, it is difficult at this point to tell with some accuracy how the capital spending will affect the state of the estate and its debt. It is clear from the amount of money that has been shown in the discussion of the budget, on the Stability Treaty Act, that there may be an opening of the possibility of turning down debt or paying on when making the commitments of state funds, much more than what is expected in this financial bill. Let us not assume that this will all happen, that it will be carried out, and that it will be good for us as soon as next year, or that it will be far beyond what is expected to happen in this bill. I think we're supposed to step down gently in giving us something about it, even if we're discussing things that are supposed to be explained in the next six months or so. I've mentioned the bond published to finance the economy of the U.S. Bank and how we're gonna get rid of it, but there's something else we're gonna make up here. A better recovery, a sale of government property that fell into the State's arms at the fall of the financial system in the fall of 2008, is important to pay off debt. In this regard, let us keep in mind that because there is often a debate about the budget not only about the welfare issues but also the ability to improve the quality of the environment, the success in these matters is the prerequisite for us to achieve better expectations for the welfare of the people of the land, to achieve the goal of interest in government matters that everyone first has, and to aim to be free from debt, especially that we really have no clean debts. We say in this financial bill, look ahead, that it could be a realistic goal at the latest of 2025. Maybe we can do better than that, we'll have to find out the time. At the very least, it is apparent that with targeted measures in the financial balance of the state's budget and continued responsibilities in government matters, the goal of reaching it is not too ambitious in the next ten years. A respectable president. For the first time, the government set before the Council on April 1. For the next four years it was adopted at that council. This spring plan set out the principal objective of the government in terms of financial matters, the key criteria and policy for development, income, expenses, and debt. We set up a framework for the total budgets of the state's financial exchange, capital costs, transactions, maintenance and stock costs, and was all laid down in the otherwise significant budget, but it was completed in months afterwards. The plan included a gradual but consistent improvement in Kingdom funds so that there will be at least 1% of GDP in 2018. The plans and goals of the programme are generally unchanged from the spring strategy in the reevaluation of a financial programme that follows the budget. This is true even though economic presidents have evolved somewhat differently than they were expected, this has led to significant changes in some aspects of the programme. This doesn't change the fact that this policy remains, and we follow the same goals that we presented in the spring program that was then adopted here. It looks like a steady improvement in the quality of a government fund in the coming years, as mentioned at the outset, while both income and expenditures are somewhat reduced in proportion to GDP. A number of real - life growths are expected on both the income and the remuneration side of the budget until 2019, although they are slower than predicting economic growth during the period. This helps us to see how much we depend on our economic growth to continue. It is important for the development of debt, that is important to our survival, and that is important for the success of the issues I have been going over, our ability to lose our weight. I call attention to the fact that the State budget produces about 20 billion of the rest of the rest of 2017, due to the accelerated spending of mortgages until 2014, i.e. We previously assumed that in 2017 the last part of the correction would be carried out. We made that part of 2014 with a special decision last year, and this will improve in 2017 in our long - term plans. At the same time, in our plans, we had assumed that the special increase on the bank tax would continue, resulting in additional growth in 2017. So we keep up - to - date with the plan so that we can appreciate how this speed affects this aspect of the program. It is only natural to maintain it in the future. The total income total in 2016 is estimated to be 669.3 billion and increased by 16.2 billion from the estimated results of this year, while the proportion of land production falls slightly together, i.e. from 31.4% to 29.9%. Total expenditure is estimated to be 681 billion and increased by 22 billion from the estimated results of this year, but based on the initial budget for 2015, total total interest increases are somewhat greater than 30.9 billion. Among the new contributions on the bill are contributions to housing of a total of 2.6 billion dollars. in accordance with the Government's declaration of housing in May, which was part of an action to facilitate collective labour agreements and, of course, to comply with the policy required by the government. Here, it should be noted that the overall action of the government is primarily responsible for raising housing and building costs in the present situation so that stability and normal balance can be restored to a real estate market. It should also be considered to address a sustainable budget for the housing market, which enables young people to purchase their first property and we need to abandon support that leads to the insurmountability of their households. I believe we have an example of it in the past, that we have observed incidents of too much motivation. In particular, I refer to the growth reform system, which can have those qualities, especially with a very high debt open up in proportion to the value of possessions. I'm especially looking forward to discussing permanently establishing the special savings site that has been called. There are now about 35 of you. individuals, from June of this year, consider taking advantage of the way to reduce their load of payment. This amount has come directly into housing, end-of-the-end conditions. If a person wants to make use of the savings that has been collected and taken out in a tax - free manner, he should be placed on mortgages. The amount of money that has been set aside by special savings for loans and payments due to purchases is about 11 billion today. On the basis of this procedure, the public is giving up a total of 0.5 billion a month on tax recovery to help people reduce the financial burden of their loans and the incentive to save money for housing. Then there are just a number of things that are still going to be discovered, what will be taken out of the already collected savings that have been raised during these operations but may be able to buy new housing in the years to come. This I believe is a significant translation and must be included in a discussion about measures established by the government to improve the status of people in a housing market. Every month, we provide about 0.5 billion tax recoverys for that purpose. A respectable president. In line with the Work Programme of the Scientific and Technical Council for 2014-2016, and consistent with the promises previously made, there are contributions to science and research increasing by 2 billion for 2016 in addition to the 800 million. K. which appeared in budgets of the current year. These contributions are largely distributed to the Research Fund and Technical Development Fund, with 100 million of the amount running into the Industry Fund. I think it's a big step in progress. The decision to strengthen this fund by 2.8 billion a year in addition to what was formerly a major step in promoting science, technology development, innovation in Iceland. Especially do we provide 1.6 billion for health care, especially what has been done in the past. There are a total of about 0.5 billion for the welfare of the Land Hospital. It also runs to the Hospital in Akureyri and other medical institutions. A total of 0.5 billion are being provided for health care management. We have long discussed at the General Assembly the need to strengthen our health care facilities as our first meeting in the medical system, and here we are taking decisive steps in this regard. Some 300 million are going to develop a new nursing program. It is an additional one, and it remains what has already been done in it. The medical matters also include steps in this budget project to promote home nursing, but the second thing I've traced is that in the bill, additional contributions are made for the complete design of the treatment core of the Land Hospital area at the Ringway and for the construction of the medical hotel next year. Then, more than one third of the budget is being made up of some 0.5 billion educational programs. In addition, 500 million contributions are expected to be made to the Agency at the local district attorney's new office. A respectable president. I call to note that the estimated pay and prices of the budget are higher than ever, about 29 billion dollars. Some 8.6 billion of them. impact on the annual terms of the collective agreements made in 2014 and early summer 2015 as well as projections of the observed increases in those currently inconsistencies. In addition, the next year's pay and price raise will be about 20 billion. This includes an increase in unemployment improvements and an improvement in social security by 9.4%. A total of 9.8 billion. Social security spending is estimated to be a total of 99 billion in 2016. If so, they have increased by 22.5 billion since 2013 or by 29% to name. However, the increase in the 2013st2016 budget is worth 15.7 billion if you look at the index price of consumers, corresponding to a 19% increase. Thus, it is clear that the subsidies of the sum have increased and this bill is guaranteed, especially when forecasting the price of climate development, will continue to develop in a positive way over the next year. Mr. President. Many tax changes reflect their plans for next year's tax revenues, including towards simplifying the tax system, making it more efficient, and reducing tax burden. In connection with the production of collective agreements in the spring months, the government decided to promote a change in income taxation, which would lead to an increase in the disposition of all employees, but especially among the intermediate groups. This was followed by a labour market specifically negotiated for an increase in the lower pay points. These changes in individual income taxation are presented in the 2016 budget and include reductions in tax percentages of 1 and 2 and decreases from three to two to 2017 in the year two to the year 2017, as well as changes in revenue levels. These proposed measures are in line with the objective of the government for reducing the tax and the simple tax system and directly following prior measures in those that have just turned to lower pay groups and intermediate groups that gained the largest tax gain during the last terms. These plans are presented in steps, as previously noted, and I believe that the situation in the economy is well controlled. The system's efficiency is growing and the discomfort that individuals need to be adjusted afterwards. Lowering the threshold height of the upper fiscal level and maintaining the pressure between steps closely unchanged reduces the impact of tax doctors on high income groups. Implicit of these changes over two years reduces the efficacy of the procedure over a longer period. At the same time, the bill provides a plan for the removal of customs on clothing and shoes at next year's convention and tolls but on food after January 1, 2017. Tolls on certain foods, not all food at all. After these changes, customs will account for about 0.3% of the government's income. Tolls on the products we collect tolls of today deliver about 1% of the total income of the state. It is generally placed 15% toll on clothing during import to the country. Other goods usually cover between 7.5% and 155%. As we know, the value tax above the import prices is so much affected, so it also affects the value of the tax revenues. The depletion of tolls from the above products will have a significant impact on the gross price of the country, but the overall effect on the index price of consumers is estimated to be up to 0.5% for reduction of 2016 and the overall effect up to 1% for the measures fully implemented in 2017. Tollification is an advantage, an action that increases the provision of households and contributes to a more competitive trade in Iceland, which is 4.4 billion dollars. direct reductions in government pressures on imported goods. These are consumer tax taxes, just like the general tax we've taken down now that it was time to get out of the way, free the entire Icelandic public and the store. For example, importers bite consumers primarily. When customs are placed on the imported product, the price paid by the Icelandic consumers has to be paid for the product and effectiveness of a domestic competitive market. Thus, customs in general have an inhibitory effect on international business, and also the import restrictions in Iceland's trade countries are falling in order to reduce the potential of Icelandic immigrants and pioneers for profiting from their work and intelligence. Iceland, as well as any other country, has the advantage of drawing as much out as possible from the international import limit. Together with these changes, there will be a variety of system changes, to form in the company's tax environment, and emphasises, including to create an incentive for better conditions for innovation companies and incentives for foreign experts to come to Iceland and work in the country for those who are reaching out for their energy. These are projects that we will continue to do. At the end of my talk, I'm going to mention and make prior legal adjustments that affect the income of the bill and then mention the energy tax that falls away. It has run its course by the end of 2015, after a total of six years of time. There are over 2 billion that will then fall on the income side. We've established three years in advance of changing insurance bills. This is the third and final step of the reduction process, so insurance costs fall by the next year by 0.14 percentage points, a total reduction of 0.34 percent. I'd like to say that the labour market party was specifically discussed with the insurance company in spring. We were more likely to focus on insurance costs in this financial bill than on income tax, but thus we developed a lower priority on the reduction of insurance on the part of employers, and it was better combined with the collective agreements that developed, which were made in spring to stress the income tax. In fact, it was also very much in accordance with the government's priorities, so it can be said that in this bill the emphasis on the customs and income taxes of individuals is a little at the expense of further action to reduce the fee. Nevertheless, I believe it should continue to be government priorities to clear the way for further reductions in insurance. The honor tax's failing. Various tourism services enter the cost of taxation in the next January, such as road transport, tourism, spa, and other such activities. A respectable president. I have largely reviewed the main component of the budget bill, the bill that will support continued and sustainable government. With responsible financial management, as well as practical external conditions in the economy, there is a high level of balance in government culture and a period of subsidies that the real value lies ahead. This is fundamental in the long-term budget of the state's budget. It thus lays a good foundation for the responsible economy in Iceland, which brings great benefits to the future. The recovery, the lower debt, the lower interest rates, this creates a public fund of opportunity to cope with the many urgent social projects that we regularly discuss in the Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]] Other commitments are also important. I would like to suggest that the case is involved. The legal committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u3	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Economic and financial ministers before the speech. I'm glad that there's leftovers in the state fund, even though there is not as much improvement as the plans of the left government expected in 2016. The social security laws assume that improvements are improved by decision-making in terms of an index or general dressback, and in the budget the law letter is determined rather than by the sense of justice required for those who have to rely on compensation will have the same elevations as agreed for the lowest salary. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance the following questions: Was it discussed at the highest level? Government to raise social security benefits according to the increase in the lowest salary and the increase over the same period? If so, why was the decision not to do so? And finally, what had righteousness cost in crowns?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u4	Mr. President. I think there's been quite a misunderstanding in the discussion on the increase in social security benefits, at least compared to what I've heard. The increase that will be over the next year will take into account what is missing during this year's rising improvement as this year's pay development will ensure that the improvement will increase in the next year to the level of pay development predicted in that year. We take full account of the legal development of pay, yes. The question is: Come to do something different than the law does, e.g. to aim for increases in minimum wage? No, we didn't discuss it specifically, so I don't know that other groups spoke for it. At least they have not used their time in the land to change laws in that way. I generally believe that we can do better in the social security system. [[The president calls.]] That is why the review of the law is so important that we now have room for big improvements, but it will not all be resolved in a single step. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u5	Mr. President. If I understand the highest. A minister had not been properly discussed in the government that the rise in minimum wage would be the same as the increase that should not work back to May 1 of this year. It's interesting that it's going to happen here. But the example of this injustice is hardly taken from other governments, is it? A respectable president. The criteria to calculate the amount of children's benefits and interest rates are paid. Children's criteria are expected to be about 3%, but I can't see that the criteria for growth reform are increased. I'd like to ask you why the criteria weren't raised according to inflation programmes? And at the same time, will this change not affect the interests of the households, so fewer homes will enjoy these benefits? [[The president calls.]] What is the interaction between the increase in pay and the child's benefits and interest rates? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u6	Mr. President. First only on social security benefits. They have not increased as much as they will at the next year. This is the result of the development of pay in the country, and thankfully, there has been room to increase pay. Let's hope that they haven't been so high that we are facing a new era, as this morning's work organizations warned. You should not minimize the huge increase in budgets that will be in the next year, and in contrast with what the senator says, it takes into account the increase in pay this year too. Do we want to do better? Of course, we want to do better. However, it is not right to set a completely unrealistic goal. Intensifications are down because wages are increasing, and homes are improving. Let us consider some of the housing issues in a slightly larger context than just interest. In January of our next year, we will put 20 billion people in order to pay off their homes'debts. This is in addition to the half billion we give a tax discount every month so that people can reduce their debt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] When these two are combined, the growth reform system alone is insignificant, with other actions of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for his history in this case. He briefly mentioned in his speech the plan to sell 30% of the government's property at the Lands Bank and stated in the bill that the value of sales should be used to pay on debt and will result in lower financial costs for the State. The bill also shows that in recent years, the Lands Bank has provided a wealth of money for the State and is expected to be 24.5 billion in profit during 2015 according to a new plan. What I want to ask the highest. A minister is that his team of assistants, the Specialist Party, agreed at their last April meeting that it was true that the Lands Bank would remain on national property that he should not sell. In fact, the idea that the bank would be a community bank and its objective was not to maximise interest. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is the government a monopoly on this objective? Does a minister have the support of his team of colleagues to sell this item at the Lands Bank? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u8	A respectable president. From the moment the left government was placed in the financial warrants for selling shares in the Bank of Lands then this policy has been followed here by the council. All I know is that it was quite easy to get through with the support of all classes, a warrant for selling 30% shares in the Bank of Lands. I think it's important, first of all, to pay off debt and second, to get a more scattered ownership of the bank. As for the ideas of some that the bank will remain in government, it is my opinion that the state should have about 40% in the bank for an extended period, thus becoming the bank's chief owner and dominant shareholder in the bank. But I think it's a good idea that we find more owners on the other 60%, get the money we can so get rid of in a better job for the Americans. I think financial institutions, such as the Lands Bank that compete with other banks in the country, should be driven by something other than a business goal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Such ideas and experiments have cost us enormous sums of money. I'm going to give you an apartment loan fund to testify to that fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his vision of this matter, i.e. what he would like to do about selling to the National Bank. I could have concluded that from the bill, but I asked the top. Minister if he would have the support of his group of colleagues who have proposed the very idea of greatness. A minister considers out - of - date - it is in itself interesting to the highest. The secretary of finance considers the ideas of the Agency out - of - date, they are no older than this April of the year - whether he has the support of the Agency, who agreed at their national meetings that the Lands Bank should continue on government property and be a member of the community bank. Of course, it is very important for us who discuss this bill to see if the advance group has given support to this goal of the bill, which is one of the basic principles of the highest financial programme. Minister to proceed. I think it's important that we at the council be informed whether this plan is fully supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u10	Mr. President. I have come here to speak for a bill submitted by the government and, of course, to support both classes. I notice that the senator does not express himself as to what she feels about the matter and that she feels like a hot cat about it. Its support lies ahead, and she as its chairman must be able to account for the class's policy, whether or not they have subjugated a previous policy of selling the item or whether this course is being followed. [[Up front.]] But whether it's left greener direction that the government owns the bank with skin and hair and then controls and interferes with it, that we go back to the old time where politics try to influence even the loan policy of individual banks, it's not a time of special interest to me. [[Are you going to answer the question?]] The question is readily answered: Of course, the budget is presented with the support of both governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the story to congratulate him on the budget bill. There's one thing and another nice thing, like they're in want of nothing, and there's ambitious plans to pay off the debt of state funds that I celebrate. There is also an increase in funding for research and innovation, that's good. But there are also things that I criticize, and I do better in my talk afterward. I'd like to ask questions that concern the side of the income. I'm glad you're putting down customs, but it's interesting to me that one of the important suppliers is a bit important to use in the homes, and it's food. Why aren't we moving customs on food? Is that not a plan? If so, why not? And also: What happened to the simple design of the cost tax system? They can't do anything on the budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u12	Mr. President. Just a little bit more on the merit tax. Perhaps the main thing that happens next is that we are extending the tax product. There was one requirement that we could lower the upper level to 24%, which is the lowest it has ever been, that we put more of us under the merit tax system. In terms of the customs, it is important to feel the support of a group of members here at the council, whether in a government or a government position, for their plans. I believe they are long-term and that these consumer taxes have gone out of date, this consumer control that once produced a great deal of money for the state, even a large percentage of the government's income, but that's a change of time. When asked about the agricultural system, I think it is quite obvious that there is simply another law in it. There we cannot make changes without overturning the production yields of the country's well-being. This is not some unique phenomenon, this applies internationally, as customs are one of the most difficult challenges in international relations on customs changes, I give evidence of this agreement between the European Union and the United States, and very commonly that domestic production is protected by anything by such regulations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But can they change over time? Of course. [[The president calls.]] We are going to one of those sessions right now, and we have made great changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u13	A respectable president. I don't think this is a convincing answer. Do Other Laws About Food? There were customs dropped on certain species of vegetables back at the turn of the century, and this operation showed that there is nothing else about food. Implemented food production in these areas, including food production Vessels, gurgles, and tomatoes only won the international competition. There are various ways to support domestic food production, e.g. Through the funding system and good quality of this quality, we enjoy it, we enjoy domestic benefits, and we also have a much - important distance protection. We are oversupervising European food production, all at the expense of consumers. Of course, the same reasoning applies when it comes to food and other products, clothing, shoes, and the other things. The views of consumers must be taken into account in all of this, especially when it comes to food. A very good example of the decomposition of food should be the highest. A minister is encouraged to take into account food. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u14	Mr. President. I think the problem is as good as any. A senator saw the need to look to specific views that apply to agriculture. I just agree with what. A senator about vegetables. I think that it did well to make some radical changes in that area, and the production of vegetables in the country has taken over, and consumers are enjoying it in the country and are now generally very happy with the domestic production. What I was pointing out is that humans can't make fundamental changes to such systems without someone having a fallback. I consider it important for us to continue to produce in our country milk products, sheep, beef, and other areas, as has been mentioned here in vegetables. Changes in these areas need to be developed and prepared. We cannot simply pull the tolls off and leave people in competition with largely subsidized foods elsewhere, especially if it is produced according to some of the other quality stations, but we ask that there be a value for Icelandic production. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u15	President. First, I'd like to express my satisfaction that the tax and customs are being simplified. It seems to me to be with the government to simplify further systems, which are only very good, although it is not to be forgotten naturally to secure the service component as well in the systems. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance is at the same time able to simplify the systems with which insurance agencies operate to improve the quality of this institution because it is a very complex system behind which no one fully understands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u16	A respectable president. I can truly say that the system of social security has become extremely complex. It is difficult to understand all the misdemeanors in this, all the restrictions, how rights change depending on the family situation and where the income range is at one time. This is the main reason the classes have been working together with other stakeholders on the social security system. That work is quite far away. Let's hope we see some practical suggestions from that committee now before the New Year's Eve. I traced it in my history that, no matter what the changes in the system, we are raising the foundation of the system by 9.4%. That's an enormous increase. It is based on our gaining economic success and improving the state's position. We can, if we keep moving, keep doing better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u17	President. Thanks for the answer. It is good to finally get some sense of when something comes out of this committee. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to something else I find extremely important. I've noticed that when you look into budgets each time, you need to look at them simultaneously, in the data you receive, for example, the budget of the last year to compare this information with the background in some conflict and in an easy - to - understand manner. You wonder if it's not time and whether it's the best. A minister is not prepared to put into practice the availability of money that is more accessible, understandable, and more beneficial.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u18	A respectable president. I can agree with the fact that it can be a challenge to dig into changes that happen with each year's budget. We'll do our best to construct ourselves in a graphic fashion and in tablets in the budget bill, both last and second tradition, the development of key sizes. Then, of course, a financial committee can go deeper and call for further information. I also call attention to the fact that not long ago we opened a special Web that can go even deeper into the almost unique shopping team of individual institutions. What a source of information this is for those who want to go deep into former bank accounts and look at them according to lawsuits, areas, or so forth! We should continue that course, I completely agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u19	Mr. President. As the plans of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government were expected, the collection of Kingdom funds for the collapse was halted in 2013. The action then taken to protect government funds from bankruptcy, the decisions of the left government thereafter, and the sacrifices of the people in the land have yielded fine results. Every column went or went in the right direction since 2009. A respectable president. I wish for the highest. The secretary of finance and economics will hear my speech. [[To the point: He does.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u20	I'm right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u21	The removal of the state funds continued to improve, increase in financial resources, and marked economic growth. Unemployment and inflation continue to decline. Happily, this trend has continued. We are enjoying the harvest, enjoying the results of our labor. So, Mr. President, I didn't feel comfortable hearing the highest. The prime minister makes his policy debate like that all good things in the present economic climate are rooted in the actions of the government in 2013. V.E.G. Not only does a prime minister downplay what the government did during the last term but he also disrespects the people in the land who had to work hard to lay the foundation for the economic benefits we enjoy today. The highest question can be asked. The prime minister really thinks that he can deceive the people with such speech. However, all the plans of the left government on government were expected to make a much greater profit in 2016, but the reality is in the budget we are discussing today, and the right government has shifted money from the joint funds of the country to the wealthiest of the people and companies, as expected. It saddens us that there are only some who are able to enjoy the economic benefits and that large groups are not allowed to enjoy a better position, especially those mentioned among us. It certainly hurts to watch large sums of Kingdom funds flow to wealthy people while those in need of services and support receive little or nothing. In the United States, we would have shared the benefits, in accordance with the spirit of equalism. Indicultation, equality, and cooperation are the baseline values of the consistent policy and are also the values that form the basis for the welfare system. Social security, health care, education, housing, and taxes are to form a single unit that contributes to a successful, successful life. The equation emphasizes that this bigger picture is clear and that all its parts are fully involved in creating a just and good society for all. When social security does not reach minimums, single parents, and microlooms are in financial trouble, more and more children live in poverty, too much money to pay, young people can not cover their heads or rent their rent on normal terms, taxes are relieved of the wealthier, number limits are at higher schools, and higher education costs. Under such circumstances, peers cannot sit down; they must fight for change. That's what we'll do, including. with adjustments to the processing of the budget project in the next few weeks. Consider, then, the welfare focus of the right government set out in the budget bill and on the first as high as possible. Government has suggested: The Social Security Act assumes that improvements will be increased by decision-making in budgets based on the index and general dressbacks. The right government boasts of improvement and makes it appear that there is a special act of kindness, but the fact is that it does not escape social security laws. The Law is the administration of, not the righteousness, which requires that those who need to rely on compensation receive the same increases that were negotiated for the lowest wage. Despite the legal requirements, which were actually agreed at the General Assembly to ensure the status of the eligible persons, it must be an unsaturable requirement for improving social security to increase to the level of minimum wage when it increases proportionally over the same period of pay, i.e. to improve from May 1 this year but not from January 1 to 2016 as best. Secretary of finance declared earlier. Therefore, the body will provide a bill that is involved in the development of social security pensions in accordance with collective labour agreements and the cost of 300 fartings. K. in 2018. The expenditures are cumulatively up to 2018 in a parallel manner and in terms of minimum pay per collective agreement. A recently established bargaining agreement has provided a basis for 300 levels. K. would be a reasonable minimum wage, since it is the amount needed to earn a person's means of living. The same can be true of the elderly and the poor who rely on social insurance pensions to support themselves financially. Clearly, a large group of elderly and desperate people live in poverty. In fact, according to the July 2015 Haust Office of Iceland's research, less than one quarter of the disability suffers from lack of material benefits and is the worst qualified group for employment. As a result, the improvement in social security from what the bill expects is very important and helps to reduce the inequities resulting from right management action. As far as health care is concerned, it should be noted that if you need health care, people in this country will pay over the table a total of over 30 billion dollars. This year, which is much more than any other northern nation. The health system needs funding, not at the expense of patients. In the budget bill, I cannot see that my health is being strengthened to a greater extent by new assignments. It is serious, however, that the patient's growth is not expected, to some extent, but not in hospitals or clinics, except in the presence of specialists. Contract agreements with experts who took effect early in 2014 assume that patients with whom they look for more and more are going to be growing old and likely to increase in the group that needs medical attention. The cost of the contract was to be paid to patients, but it is now gone and the government pays the cost according to the financial bill. I thank you for these changes to the right of the management board, especially during the last assembly for the lower payoff of health - care professionals. Another issue of government opposition was that more money would be spent in maintenance at the Land Hospital. So how disappointing it is that another year is going to be the highest! Governments to put molds in it and invite patients to lie in the hospital corridors, as is reported on the front page of the newspaper. This has to change. The solution to the health - care system is primarily that the State actually strengthens hospital and health care clinics, enables them to maintain good living and to meet the needs of patients throughout the country. It's supposed to be a priority project. The lack of academic policy in the right government led to a high school age limit that went into effect at 25 years of age and older in private school at high cost. In turn, fewer people will obtain education that is against both individuals and society. There must be a reversal of this and an easier access to any country, regardless of the age and economic situation of students. It's both good regionalism and education. The budget is not disfellowshipped from a previous mass limit policy, but it seems that a change in the number of school students is not expected. Whether this is a print error should be considered. As everyone knows, housing markets are extremely difficult and hard to deal with will affect young people and tenants. V.E.G. The secretary of the house is calling for improvement, but the changes have been made. The measures required to handle the problem include new housing benefits that ensure renters comparable support to those who have their own housing. The bill suggests a budget of 1.1 billion. which is not enough to meet tenants' problems. And don't forget that 400 million were promised on housing as a counterweight to this year's food tax, but they have not yet paid off. So the addition to this bill is only 700 billion. K. About a quarter of the country's homes are housed, and there are homes that seem to have no place on the platform on the right side of the board. It's shocking to see what tenants are getting out of our common funds and to compare it with what happens to those who have homes. 80 up. A million. K. In a third of the country's homes because of the insured mortgage, a large percentage of the money went to homes that definitely didn't need that gift from a government fund. But tenants who have about 25% of the country's homes and more than a lot of less money are expected to be involved in 700 million. K. in 2016. Injustice in this misdeeds is a crying cry. The bill suggests 1.5 billion dollars. goes to founding due to 400 apartments in the social system. That amount and the number of apartments must be revised, for the problem calls for even more apartments and increases of funds. But how would that amount have been determined? In turn, from a pocket of guilty homes, 1.5 billion can be received. instead of changing criteria so that more homes can be restored. It also requires that people who buy an apartment or live for the first time and who earn less money to finance their apartment purchases. The current situation should no longer exist and the recommendation should be highest. To improve housing, which is, in fact, only 700 million if there are fewer growth improvements and counter-improvement measures on food tax, are not effective. Beautiful word at the top. The secretary of the house is not going to do a financial bill at the highest level. Secretary of finance. That's interesting. Mr. President. The budget bill contains the implementation of the tax system changes announced in a financial program submitted and approved at the spring Summit. The right government promised a simpler tax system, and it's won. This certainly did not include any promise of a righteous tax system. For example, for example, the first action had brought relief to the richest people in the country and had increased tax consumption on food. Taxies are involved not only in obtaining the wealth of money but also in the vital role of contributing to the community. The typical income tax returns both parts. Today, with the gradual decline and the change of criteria, the equality of the tax system is being reduced. According to the proposal in the bill, the 370 you have. K. I get about 3 of you. K. A discount similar to the few that have 850 yours. K. per month or more. Most of them get a discount that's got 700 points. K. of monthly remuneration, 12 of you. K., when the changes are through. Those who earn less than 240. K. However, they do not receive a discount for the month's pay. They're not getting anything from the government fund. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that it is because people with such low income pay, not taxes that run to the State, but an answer that goes to the countryside. I'm asking, Mr President, what kind of dog plow is this? 5 billion go to this simple tax system, and only those who truly need extra funds will receive nothing. A man like Kári Stefánsson, who himself has said it was fair that he paid more taxes, is correct at three thousand a month from the common fund of all of us than those who have least got nothing. IRS said it was the highest. Prime Minister in his policy debate, with permission of the president: With this, it can continue to be expected that all benefits will be met, but particularly between the middle and low-payers, and thus the improvement in standard of living in Iceland will continue, while there will be an even more equation. Could be, Mr. President, to the highest. ▪ Prime Ministers believe that tax reforms are useful to underpayers and in addition to the equation? Has the highest. Perhaps the prime minister did not read the explanations of the budget, making it clear that the lowest income is not available? Analysis has shown that children who have children have the most difficulty in making ends meet, and some children live in poverty and miss out on material things. The welfare of the colonies of northern countries puts far more emphasis on child support than have we done with a powerful child - reform system. Good child support equal child status, but the financial bill offers an overall increase in child support in 2016; it slightly decreases, and the reference numbers only rise by 3%, but not according to inflation forecasts. It is essential to set up an example that compares pay, changes in child - making, and changes in growth reforms, and assess the impact on the welfare of the country's households. Mr. President. The heart of the Union's policy is that social security, health care, education, housing and tax would be the only united unit that contributes to a successful, successful human life. We will let our heart control the political treatment of a budget bill in 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u22	Mr. President. I'm going to make two comments to a talk. A senator with regard to the benefits of those who are least of the population today. First of all, I'm going to mention what I've been on before, that improvements are going up 9.4% and that I haven't increased any more before. Second, when collective labour market agreements were completed during spring, special emphasis was given to the increase in pay at the bottom of the pay ladder, which was the primary outcome of the collective agreement. The tax system changes we present here fit well with the emphasis we are doing here would have been unrealistic to shut down our bargains cycle in spring, but it would have been unrealistic. It was relatively little that came to the interests of those who are in the space between ages, but their share is greatly improved by the tax reductions we present here. When we drop taxes, we lower the bottom level. Unlike the senator, this guarantees that the tax reduction will reach down to the entire pay level. Certainly, that is not a major tax reduction, for we take only about 1% of your salary at about 230,240. K. to the state, 1%, the rest will go out, as it turned out. Senator. Of course, we could make a decision to pay even more than just the personal discount to the countryside and to add the 10 billion we send them, but the main thing is that the tax burden is longest - least - and it will remain. The lowest tax step is down, and we are taking over a new tax step that will be 22.5% in the income tax, lower than it was during the last terms of power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u23	Mr. President. V.E.G. The financial and economic secretary insists that benefits have never increased beyond this time. His talk went to the highest. Ministers are doing well over 30 billion on pay-offs due to increase in pay. He also said that it was never more. The aims of social security are to increase in terms of pay development or index, depending on the advantage for reform recipients, so when it is said that there has never been a higher improvement, the reason for the improvement of the individual to be considered was good. However, when the lowest wages are raised considerably more than other wages, justice is not in harmony with the letter of the law but is considered the status of the elderly and the desperate, and their terms are added according to the lowest wage. If you look at the last year's accounts and look at a table that compares with minimum wage, you will find a link between them. This connection is being breached by the government's actions. We need to make changes, for it is obvious that the people who are having problems, along with their children, are just the people who need to rely on compensation. The report of the Allegorical Commission criticized the Cold Lawism, but the spirit of the law given at the time is on guard for those who have to rely on compensation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u24	A respectable president. We have improved improvements more than prices per year of this terms. The level of money improved has grown every year. If we take in 2014, 2015 and predict 2016 together, the cumulative increase in prices is 8.8% during the period when improvements have increased by 16.7% - 16.7%. I couldn't have heard better than that. In his speech, a senator confirmed that there had been no further improvements. There's a good reason why they are so much up right now, but the conclusion is that we've been talking about, that they haven't increased any more in other times. Then we can take a long discussion of what we can do to improve our effectiveness. The union seems to follow the line that compensation should be as high as pay. I have doubts about that course. I think we need to make sure there's the right motivation in the system so that people can see the benefits of going to the labour market and getting a job. That's what I think is important. The union seems to have a policy that goes largely toward improving society and that it's only good to have a free choice whether you're in recovery or out in the labour market. I don't agree with that policy. I believe it is a very serious matter when we see as rapidly an increase in reformers as we have seen in recent times - not just in recent years but in recent decades. There is tremendous growth, and much work there is to do. We have good cooperation with the workforce to deal with the problems. We have a lot of mental problems, depression that keep people away from the workforce. Because people need to take care of themselves and get them back to work. One factor is to make sure that people see the real benefits of going back to the job market in such a way that they can improve their quality of life each month in this way too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u25	Mr. President. What an interesting speech that was in the highest! Financial and economic ministers - and sad. What a sad attitude! Budget and economic ministers feel that it helps to prevent improving society's survival, the elderly, and those who have to rely on social security benefits, under minimums, and insinuate that people are being treated better and that they are more likely to be benefited. Many poor people have no choice; they have no choice. It is the duty of a rich society to stand in such a way that those who have more than they can give according to their ability and those who need service to accept them as needed. Is it okay, then, for an invalid who has lost his skills and has no job to be kept less than the minimum wage? What's the highest. Financial and economic ministers mean that? Is this the heart of the welfare policy of the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson? I'm afraid we need to take that discussion when we have a better time and try to get the highest government minister in Iceland to look with other eyes at those who need community service, and with translation heart condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u26	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech, though we do not agree on the merits of the budget bill. I believe in the bill there's a lot of positive news. This is a good bill, which involves a major step toward simplifying and efficient tax system, which includes a milestone in the government's decommission of customs for the benefit of all the peoples, all who live in our fine country. It is with great joy that I get involved in today's discussion of this financial bill. I cut it at the end of the day. The senator talked a lot about the increase in social security, the social security benefits. I want to direct those questions to you. A senator at the highest. The secretary of finance threw up in the earlier discussion: If it is so that the Conspiracy understands the provision in order to raise the same amount as the lowest wage, why the new Synod, and why. A senator who served as minister of finance in the last government, not the opportunity then to change the laws of the law in such a way that it was clear and standing there? Or is this new direction from the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u27	Mr. President. Me, like a whisk. Senator, rejoice that we have begun to contribute to the wealth, that we have managed to win in such a short time with such success over a financial breakdown. The improvement in social security during the last terms was either based on an index or on a remuneration rate. They were held in hand with a minimum wage, a crown, like a crown. The senator can study the annual reports of the National Insurance Agency. It's not that the Conspiracy interpreted 69 gr. legal on social security so that the benefits are to be done with the minimum. The article, however, is designed to protect the interests of those who have improved, and the Law does not forbid better action. When circumstances in the community have managed to achieve such considerable improvement for the lowest wage and the evidence is that no one can survive less pay, it is necessary to increase the pay so that the lives of those on the minimum will be decent, we, this rich nation, should increase social security benefits in the same way. The Law code does not forbid us to do better than simply apply the development of pay in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u28	V.E.G. President. I still don't understand the Union policy, but the explanation may be that I don't always understand that category. Based on the senator's speech, the policy is that compensation should not follow the minimum wage, yet it is claimed that it is now and that it is likely because the United States is not responsible for the law of the law. Berries were reduced during the last term, in the history of the left management. [[Up front.]] It is true that we had to live through difficult times, and the government had to be dealt with, which is the type that speaks and the spirit and the heart showed what the policy was then in the United States. I may have changed the heart of the United States, I'm asking. V.E.G. President. It is clear that this answer and the talk that has been given will call for further discussion on these matters in the Senate Hall, and I assume it will take place here later today. The facts speak for themselves. Farmers are raising considerably, improvements are increasing more than are done in history. [[Just a little too small.]] That is the fact of the matter, that is what the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party proposes. I got it. I got it. All members of Congress are happy to know that this policy is displayed in the budget bill and is happy for the results we have achieved in the economic regime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u29	Mr. President. I wonder why. A senator doesn't understand what I'm talking about. I say like what? Senator, I'm glad we've had such a success since the collapse, but I want the quality divided more justly. We as superiors do not agree that the pay of social security is lower than the minimum wage in the country. Is that hard to understand? Is it hard to realize that this is unacceptable? It is unacceptable for those who rely on benefits. When we get to the point where we're about to make the money, we're about to pay off debt, we're going to fit in with the community, and those who have to rely on compensation are not left on cold ice under the minimums There's a policy that doesn't work. I agree with what. A senator will need to discuss this better, because this is a conclusion that will never be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u30	Mr. President. This is an interesting and interesting conversation that has taken place and may further explain the policies and attitudes of the government. There is reason to remember that in spite of the tremendous economic breakdown we experienced in the collapse of the Icelandic banks, with the related payment and loss of money from the state we all know, the recovery has been at hand since 2010. Happily, he has progressively returned to the bettering of the wealth of the Kingdom. Thanks to this government, this government is not unique. That's what happened to you. The head of the left movement, while discussing prime minister's policy, was not here some gimmick, life did not come from a void after a election more than two years ago. Governments have turned around, and the result has improved, as it turns out, and perhaps there is a reason for that. I'm worried that we're heading back into the same direction as things were in before a crash. Then the government's income stocks had been systematically weakened. This is part of the explanation of the situation that we faced, the income did not depend on the financial loss that was inevitable. So the last government was to strengthen them of income, and that is what the government now enjoys. Therefore, it is surprising what is called up here and discussed in a pita; as if it were a political option to cut down. It's amazing to listen to this. It was an economic emergency that the government faced after a collapse and because of the collapse of the Independence Party economic policy. In this context, of course, there is a key element that we are careful - unfortunately, we do not see in the bill - that the income stocks will not be sick. The bill assumes about 4% of inflation, so the government does not seem to believe that it will keep the inflation low. On top of that, there are tax reductions I thought had been shown that were not an ideal option in this situation. In itself, you may also wonder, though you may be glad that you are reaching the better level of government funds, how many percent of the recovery is from GDP, and whether it could have been greater. We left greens believe it would have been if income stocks had been maintained better than the government has chosen to do. Instead of plucking a lure off a certain tax layer, such as a fiscal tax, it is decided not to extend it, and some temporary items are considered to be no reason to extend, yet others have reason to extend. This familiar tax politics is brought up, as has been attributed here. Instead of supporting the least of those who have been made in line with those who are older, they earn their income. I have to agree with what was stated earlier that I think it's a priority for us to support those below the scale rather than those around 700,000 more than for those with more. Therefore, I do not understand the discussion that this is a choice, that people choose to be invalid.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u31	They're talking about...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u32	We're talking about improvements. This is about the fact that never before improved as much. Especially has the highest. The prime minister spoke in much and large words. There is nothing as great as a worldwide record in various matters, no more has been done of this or of the rest. It is as if there is a great need for things to be placed in such a way that everything is most glorious. There is not enough equality in society. We need to do much better than we do. We must put more emphasis on those who have less. In the memory of the section, we will do with the suggestions and adjustments. I'd just like to step aside from a few factors on the bill because there's something else that attracts attention. Some of the factors have been considered fine here. I'd like to go over the Ministry and check some changes, because I don't understand all of them. However, before I do so, I would like to see what was discussed earlier with me - this is shown on page 6. 17, 18 and 19 of the little book, policy, and prospects, that the Habitat predicts an annual increase of 1.5 to 11.1.7%. It is worth recognizable that this is a much less annual average growth than in the last 20 years, despite the fact that we are returning a baseless government law. If the forecast works, this ratio goes down to 2.1%. The share of GDP last year was 24%, certainly with the highest level of activity occurring within the OECD countries, but it must not be overlooked that this is a very low average growth of co-medication. As I said, I'm going to go down to the Ministry. I'd like to start with a language group that I love, education and culture, and talk only about high school. This picture highlights a significant increase in the number of high schools. It isn't, it's about a billion bucks. reduction to the group of litigators. It seems that it is financed by reducing the value of students but by increasing their donations with each student. Thus, the increase that occurs is not a real increase. I don't understand, for example, because I've often taken into account high school in my hometown, why there's still a drop in student levels, despite the fact that the school had to reject students and is blowing off. So are other schools. Instead, a minister puts a lot of money in strengthening locks as he lowers an institution at the University of Akureyri. It's also interesting that we're in the 23rd place as a national football team, and it's all on a globe; I think we're in the 27th read, and then we're in very few places. Of course we need to do better, and of course we need to build up locks. No one should reduce it, but it does matter how things are done and done. So the thing that goes to the Ministry of Education and Culture is really a decrease, a decrease in student values, and an additional cost for high school students. As a result, many people are not being met. Last year, in the funds we are working on today, there was a lack of chance at 25 years of age and older - so we are still trying to cast people at the same assembly. Our system is not serving the crowd, it's just some people. New school activities are referred to as being read that they should promote school activities. It is worthy to ask, When it comes to the study of music, what is the minister's business? What is this about? Is this about one private music school in the capital, or what? At least there's one pleasant news here. Certainly - and it is not a matter of drawing - into the fine arts and cultures, which had been cut down considerably; rather, the projection program of the former government was not followed. But the floor of the so-called floor stays in the little colleges, it's a pleasure to see. There's one thing I'm worried about when it comes to the price of study; it's cut off. It is for our country's inhabitants, young and young, who go from their homes for education, which is cut off. That's 50 million. K. decrease, which is, in fact, apart from compensation and remuneration, that is, 27 million taken from those that are not so wonderful. This is one of the elements involved in discrepancies. This reduces the gap between national areas and capitals, reduces opportunities. They have to try to look at a few things, and we'll discuss it tomorrow with the minister of education and culture, how he envisions a decrease in student values in these schools and whether there's a misunderstanding here. In terms of community relations, study opportunities are certainly part of them, I would like to ask you about 500 million. K. a donation shown on page 24. 355 on the bill. That's 500 million. K. a donation due to the maintenance of airports in the country. As far as I know, only the airport's been fixed. Others haven't. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether to complete the scheduled airports this year. And if not, because this is cut out of the bill, whether or not it's decided to cancel the project or whether it's moving between years in some other way. This is of utmost importance and is of utmost importance to these settlements. I'd also like to look at national ground plan and application programmes. I would have liked to see a lot more money involved in it, as we've discussed here considerably. After a great hard time, it was added in the current year. It is a project that is of great interest to rural society and is thought to have given it; and strangely, that no more is being done there than it really is. Let's go about the flight. There's a suggestion about 50 million. K. contribution to domestic flight support. I would like to ask if this is part of the action the group took to reduce the domestic cost. It is one of the national struggles that flying is not so expensive, but at times there are no other opportunities to move around when there is a need for a service rendered solely in the capital area. I remember that it took about 200 million a year to reduce the cost of the fare by 17%. I would like to have it confirmed if it is a donation that should not be taken into the picture or if it is something else. The snowspot - the oat will continue. Even so, there are some small things that are put in there. It's totally unacceptable not to be put on any more road maintenance. I don't understand, Mr. Honorable President, why they don't do that. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Secretary to Back. The bill appears to be taken from a never - planned road in order to put on a project, and at the same time it is likely that it is decided not to place money on all the necessary tasks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u33	A respectable president. I'm gonna make a quick remark. In case of a moment. A senator was referring to a relationship between me and my bad. paritaprevir In the meantime, Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter was not referring to many choosing to become cripples. In particular, I was referring to the often spoken of the United States as being fair and normal that unemployment rates were as high as the lowest wage. I don't think that's a good policy. I believe the policy for those who can enter the labour market, i.e. that the course should be so that there is a more obvious improvement, the more apparent benefits. In fact, I think we've been making some changes, and our societies, too, to create that kind of impulse in recent years. What's the matter with microbubbles and pensioners? I think that it's a good common policy for the groups who are at the General to do better with them. I'm here to announce the inflation rates that are beyond what we normally have room to do. However, these systems need to be revised, and this is a work in changing the social security system. It is necessary in the case of the ants to take a deeper discussion of employment reassessments, job assessments, in order to enable those with some ability to go to work without having negative consequences on their futures. I think this is a very fair matter. But no one's talking about humans choosing to be on disability or to be judged for disability, so it shouldn't be. We're still, unfortunately, with too much unfair revenues in these systems, and that's why the work is being revised in the systems so important. With regard to the way the last government chose to go, we criticized it at that time for being too busy raising taxes, and now we are making it a success to reduce the midpoint it was from 25.8% to 22.5%. [[The president calls.]] There is a new lowest and middle phase that is lower than the old lowest level. [[The president calls.]] This is what I think is a very important course, a good policy change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. You see, that was the way it was when I witnessed to the conversation that took place between the highest levels of conversation. Minister and minister. A senator who saw a senator never mentioned unemployment. They were discussing social security and the benefits of senior citizens and disability; they weren't specifically talking about unemployment. Of course, there has to be some benefit from going into the job market. For example, when we face it, so we go to unemployment, not having young unemployed people, they don't get enough payment if they don't feel up to school, but they want to go to school for a long term or so. It will only be limited in a limited way. That's one of the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture has set up in the past. I agree that we need to create a system with a decline, e.g. A dollar apiece, doesn't happen. I'm glad to hear that she's started work, but she can't take too long. There are so many people who want to participate in society, but they don't because our system is like this. With the income tax level, it's only right-hand policy, not a left-green policy. We believe that the diverse step division of income tax is more likely to be the way to the equation than a flat income tax system, which the current government is headed for and has declared that it prefers to have one tax step. Clearly, it is a completely different approach than ours. In spite of a slight drop, we are still, as noted earlier, with relief or pay that are so low that they are unable to provide for the services provided by the Ministry of Health. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u35	A respectable president. This is about a number of interesting budget programs, and these are interesting times in government. I think we're looking at a better time, looking at a reversal, and I think it's fair, when you say it, to let that trend begin in that direction not in the spring of 2013, by some decision that was made, that we are reaping something of it. As many have discussed here today, we would not be looking at this success in terms of government, this slantless business, this change, except for their decision, very difficult decisions, taken in the afterning of the collapse by the then state, which reached down with a very difficult operation of some 200 billion angles. Of course, if that had not been done, we would not be looking at the situation today. That government also made very important decisions that are now useful to us in the fight of decommissioning and living up to old banks. I find it very important, in behalf of the political talk in the country, in the interest of a healthy discussion, in moderation and humility and fairness, to say that this work has come in a very large number of hands and that difficult sacrifices have been made. According to this, the nature of this milestone, the turning point in the financial affairs we are looking at, so there is a very rich need to define things now; to sit down in a rich conversation and try to define where we want to go. In this situation, there is a great danger, and the risk of a very traditional Icelandic economy is high, and you only see it sparkling. It's going to be big business, private consumption is getting bigger, driving the consumer taxes rather than the income taxes, it's supposed to lower them, interest has begun to rise. They can see the confusion completely, especially when elections approach, and hundreds of billions of dollars are likely to enter a trust fund. The braces need to be kept tight. I think conversation, aim, and long-term thinking are absolutely key at this point. Then let me give you one example of a successful approach, which is an increase in donations for innovation and development, an increase in donations to Research Fund and Technologies, and, in fact, an increase in donations for various arts, competitive funds in arts and creative articles. I'm celebrating. Here, for example, it is true that people who work in this field and the State and others sit down and set goals and defined the need for financial contributions, what would be needed to achieve significant results. As soon as I'm glad that these views have been listened and, for the most part, I think, I must also say that there should have been one of the first decisions made by the current government, when she took over, to blow off the decisions of this creature that had been taken during the last term. I was referring to the investment policy of our existing government, the future senators Birt's future, and we had a lot of initiative to accept it here at the council. It was about this, increasing this type of investment, raising donations for creative, research, innovation, and development. I find it strange to have made it its first step to cancel all that strategy and all that investments with surprising evidence that income was not guaranteed for this wrong assignment but later came and put money in that direction. At the same time, I welcome it, but I also think it's a bit of a weird politics. Of course, it's an assignment we are, I think, all of this council hall would agree to be reasonable and should have just continued and abandoned. But I say this is an example of something that's good, that there's a defined need for money and there's going to meet and work according to plans. But there's a lot of missing. The government is drumming forward, saying: It's a welfare law. I'm not prepared to agree with that. I'm not prepared to give the government the rating that this is a welfare law. What are the identified health - care goals? Where are we taking the hospital? Where are we gonna take the health care unit? Where are we going to locate ourselves regarding medication purchases? We are very close now, very conservative in buying a new drug, for example. It's huge expense teams. Where are we going with public health in Iceland? The land hospital has said that to be on a pair of comparable institutions in the North countries, tens of billions more will be needed to make financial contributions to the hospital. So much was cut down. Of course, it's good, but much of the pay team was explained and also simply because the health system, after many difficult years, was clearly difficult for the government to deal with, was brought to the point where no more cuts could be made. It was obvious that it had to be turned around, and I think everyone expected it to be done sometime at this point. It is not possible, however, for obvious reasons to reverse significant surgery in the health system, to call it a welfare law. I'll be waiting for an answer. A senator in this regard. You see, I think it's possible to talk about the welfare laws when it comes to health care matters and to be on the table with a much clearer plan and a goal on where we're going to go. I think we still have a long way to go, and it was quite clear in the morning news in the News magazine that reported that for maintenance at Land Hospitals, there would be quite a lot more money to be expected, simply to overcome mold molds and other factors. This is where the health system is located. It simply needs more, and we need to know where we are going. Let's take the road system. The weight of maintenance road was completely cut to nail for years, for obvious reasons, after collapse. At that point, we have the road system and transportation. Now I feel like I'm missing, at this point, plan, analysis of the need, what to suggest in Iceland so that we're not just watching the damage to the roads, and we need to build them over again. It's missing. In many areas, such as in education, I see no clear view of the future. There is some increase in education, and the biggest news in education in the bill is that it is contributing to a child's learning skills. I don't think I'm going to take a job on reading, I don't think this should be an effort, it's supposed to be a long-term project, where we're going to set our long-term goals. We do not teach reading with enthusiasm. I think it's a bit wrong thinking, I feel that a long-term goal is missing into all this important budget of the budget bill. I'm sorry that, on account of the budget bill, there is talk of an increase in investment. It certainly is welcome, and it sounds good to see that there is an increased investment in our country. I've felt it was obvious for a long time that after many thin years I've been talking about, you'd have to invest in the interior. You have to invest in the road system, you have to invest in telecommunications. You have to invest in the infrastructure of tourism, that's obvious. If we do not, such a type of complacency can simply lead to the detriment of industry. I have found this to be rather obvious, so when I saw in terms of the budget that my investments would increase, I was filled with plagiarism. But when you start looking at it, you ask: "What kind of investments are these? These are professional investors. And what song of professional investment? Yeah, it's for the big time. This is it, this is the old model for the management of Icelanders, which we have repeatedly, I think, shut down and don't make sense. According to the bill's follow-up, these investments to Bakka and Helgavík, no matter what. They, for example, lead to the development of rural society. We need to maintain our grip on another type of investment that I find much more obvious. It's gone to these investments, including... with the argument that work needs to be created. However, during the investment and building period, it is mostly a imported labor force involved in this process. It may be all right, but I think it weakens the basis for this argument that it should take on these things to create jobs. It's a government-enforcement project, so it's not a natural job investment, it's a public investment. And, for example, would it be wise, as mentioned earlier, to take money from a road account to implement this project on the Backcoat, such a well-designed project? I watch the work structure of the past few years very different. There's been 1 7 thousand jobs, you might say, for a travel service. I think the tourism service, which is helping us very much, and simply the Internet, brings a lot more jobs, making much more profit. I think this big investor of an enormous calendar, and I'm thinking that people will be looking at this with an open eye to the effects it has, in times where public investment is needed - the need for investment in infrastructure, telecommunications, roads, education systems, health systems, law enforcement and justice systems, and so forth - is screaming. I think it's something I should have thought about. V.E.G. The minister of finance was well aware of his ideals during a discussion of policy speech the day before yesterday. I can share many things in his eyes. I think it's very important to trust people and that freedom should be a guide. I think it's a healthy society which is a free society, but freedom has to bear responsibility. There is also a need to promote social responsibility. There I make a significant comment, my opinion, to the thought of the budget bill. I don't think it's to increase responsibility in a free society that the government takes on, almost over the line, to pay a portion of people's private debt. I don't think so. I think that's an example of a very amazing marketing intervention and a bizarre state exchange and a very costly and unjust situation. I regret that in the following section of the budget bill, there is an increase in home debt goals. The committees are figures pre-yearly, prior to 2014/2015. They say that good goals have been achieved with regard to home debt and that home debt is similar to 2004. This is before the government's due correction plans were made, so when the goal was reached. Why, then, were these measures taken? Why was sharing this money in such an extremely irresponsible way? I have previously mentioned a Kingdom - volume industry that provides the basis for the increase in investments in the years to come. Doesn't sound like anything someone's policy on freedom and responsibility. The house market - the fact is that it will simply be the main center of the government to build houses, to perform a very large construction project, to build social apartments. I don't know exactly, I don't have a position to do that, but is it more fully trying to reach the building costs by changes in the building policy, to go into the remuneration environment all together, and rather to promote this market in a more sustainable way? [[The president calls.]] Or will the government always build houses, when it needs a house? I'm not quite sure it's a good economic policy. There were many more subjects I would discuss, but there is a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. True, I must admit that I did not fully understand the meaning. Hv. A senator spoke of the need for money in health matters as if it were just something to add money. Like all nations we compare with ourselves, we are trying to buy as much new drugs as possible, but all the nations we compare to are now limited to them for obvious reasons that I don't have time to go over now. He spoke of the road system, putting more money there, telecommunications, more money on them, the tourism, more money on it, the education, more money on them. Hv. After being held at the council, a senator should know that setting priorities, for example, for health care. This has been done during this terms, in contrast with what was done during the last terms, as all numbers show. All you can do is make a bill to check it out. I don't like to talk like it's only by itself that it's done. It is very difficult to deal with, and hopefully we will continue to do so. A respectable president. Hv. A senator does not want the housing aid we have to help people pay off debts, saying that he opposes them. So, what do you think? A senator says that we have long - term assistance that goes out of paying interest in people? It's just a grappling operation, that's actually helping with financial institutions rather than something else. It would be nice to have a point of view. It's for a senator. Also spoke whiskers. A senator in the debate of the fact that the political party he is in would want to stop with fossil fuels. I was very interested that Iceland should be the first country that wouldn't use it. Perhaps it would be nice to hear how we are going to do that, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u37	A respectable president. These are numerous and extensive questions. Fossil fuels, there is absolute evidence that technology is beyond the corner, and you don't have to talk to learned engineers in that field for a long time in order to become completely aware of it, but, of course, you can't do anything like this tomorrow. I simply draw attention to what I find so obvious that using fossil fuels is one of the most environmental challenges facing the world, the world, and because of the many things we've done in the past, we build our houses without fossil fuel, and so forth, so along the streets, we can, with the right goal, become models of other nations, and show that this can be done over a long time. It's my religion. I wasn't. A senator, calling out that money would simply be pumped out at this point to all the bases of society that had a backdrop. A senator mentioned. What I was talking about is that I feel that I am missing from the budget of what is needed and where we are going. In fact, I think with the legislation on government finance, which we may agree to at the council, it'll be better if we talk more about where we're going to use the health system. For example, I agree that we cannot have the goal of just buying all the new drugs produced in the world. As with health care, we can easily spend all our money on health matters. This is easily possible, but the question remains: Where are we going to be? In recent years, for example, we have fallen behind when it comes to buying new drugs, new drugs, because we do not have the big pharmaceutical industry and benefit from it, so in these years we are on the line with the British, who are backward but have the pharmaceutical industry. [[The president calls.]] I'm advertising an open discussion about where it is wise to take all of this together, but I'm not advertised to some unscrupulous, mindless sheep-scrap at this moment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u38	A respectable president. True, we have certain health - care policies. I can say with what. A senator says we should go deeper into it. Of course, we need to set up our conversations here and on schedule so that the plans there are not just words left out. This does not stop us from talking about goals. I think we should compare ourselves with other countries when it comes to the medication. I'm not sure that the claims are what you're saying. A senator, on the other hand, may not be important and very important to review, since there may be some misunderstanding in the discussion. Regarding fossil fuels, a respectable president, we are a model for other nations to imitate because of the factors involved. A senator mentioned, e.g. house warming and the use of renewable energy. Of course, that's very good. But the reason we use a lot of fossil fuels, I think that we use most proportional, we and Singapore, is because of our transport, the direction of ships and airplanes. Of course, I'm not getting technical changes in that area, but hopefully we'll be able to do it, and hopefully we can move our motor fleet here more with electricity and other factors we produce here. A respectable president. I reiterate that setting priorities for health care does not necessarily occur or happen automatically. I think it's very important for people to be aware of that. So I asked. A senator would feel that it would be reasonable for him to pay off interest with so - called growth reforms, which are clearly indebted and are one of the reasons why we have been in this situation. It might be good to ask him too if he too feels normal, since he is opposed to paying off people's mortgages, paying off the interest of a special house bank in the state. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u39	A respectable president. In terms of the housing situation, I think it's a perfect priority to bring down growth in Iceland in the long term. It's always as Spanish to me how difficult it is to discuss it. I think it is the obvious goal if we are going to establish a healthy housing market, where we are not always in short - term solutions and repetitives, trying to keep out an apartment loan with a high price, maintaining a system of growth reforms, which in many respects are not wise, that it is so difficult to discuss the foundation of itself. All of this, the insurance policy, a special camp loan fund, interest improvements, the conditions we are about to start building houses and somehow trying to stop into this system, is because Iceland is too expensive, and money in Iceland is too expensive. In a bright future, we say that it is due, among other things, not just to the currency, and so we make a repeated suggestion to the Council that there will be a policy in currency that will be tried to build up and establish a solid foundation for the economy that needs to be put in hand. Then we will see the circumstances in Iceland, which is comparable to those in many countries, low growth and healthy loan markets, with mortgage loans. That's where we're supposed to go. It is the main part of my talk that I feel that there is a greater need for goals in general on the basis of the budget and the economic issues. For health care, yes, it's adjournment, but I'm not prepared to say that this is a welfare law until I know where to go and if it's gonna come out of this good health service, health care, public health policy and a powerful hospital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure that now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u40	A respectable president. Governments in general and rulers tend to thank themselves for their success and blame others for the bad. It is a real joy to know that the state's funds now turn up, but I think it's important to keep it in mind how rulers speak, now and again, that, in reality, they should not be surprised to learn that the state funds will be left behind seven years after a recession, especially as compared with the developments in the state's budget during the last term. I was not at the General in the past government, nor am I responsible for what they did or did not do, so I can't thank or blame anyone for my work. I look at the numbers, and I look at the development of the state funds over the last terms and the present, and I see it, and it's clear that it's not the highest. A government that made it possible for the state's funds to produce rest now. He began to give back the rest when the current government began to take over. I don't need to thank one or blame another. The important thing to me is to keep in mind that there is a tendency among politicians to thank and blame others. It's going to be the highest. In 2011 the government would not have returned the rest, and then the government that was then sitting would not bring a sledgehammer in 2015, let alone 2016. It's not to be surprised, it's not to be stumbled, it's to be read from the numbers, and it's also the nature of an economic crisis. When there is a crisis and even a collapse, the economy eventually replaces itself. So I feel that it is important to stay in good shape because it is a tendency among politicians to think that they control the function of the economy. True, they have the influence and responsibility to be prepared for setbacks and to have the environment so that it will be successful. But after all, the economy is bigger and bigger and more international than any individual government, and much less individual politicians, they can thank themselves for the way the entire economy, the whole economy, has its own. There are far more difficult forces at work than there is. That's what I think. Senators and officials in general understand and are well aware, and likely they would not even object here. This is something that I think is important to me. After what struck the nation and the whole world in 2008, I find it really amazing that just four years after a collapse, a government fund has stopped returning. It's amazing to me. It's better than I expected when the crash occurred, if I'm supposed to say it just the way it is. Speaking of which, it's not true what was said after a crash, that no one could have anticipated the collapse. I saw the collapse, everyone I know about who knew about money policy and money, not even a lot of sense, just about something, and was sure that it was coming. What happened before a collapse was in a single word a credit card. That's what it was. And I'm afraid that if we get up and out of the way, we will forget that even though there is now an increase in economic growth, a better source of Kingdom funds - which is a cause for joy, for certainly is brighter than it was four years ago - we must be ready for the evening. We must be ready when the next shock comes. I've been standing here saying there's another crisis, there'll be another crash sooner or later, and there's been some cause of news. By permission of the president: 'Helgi promises another crash.' That was news. But if I say there'll be another earthquake, no one will doubt. No one's surprised. There will be another volcano. There will be more diseases. Things will happen, things we can't predict, we only know we can't foresee them. That is why I feel that all talk about continued long - term stability, much less the long - term economic growth in itself, is lost in the sense that we cannot afford long - term stability and long - term economic growth. We have earthquakes to assume, we build our houses so that they can endure any tremors if possible. We make plannings that take over when things go wrong. It's just common sense. On the other hand, if you talk about a fall again, and sooner or later we'll get into financial trouble again, once again, it is called pessimism or even, as was often said before collapse, talking down the economy. It is one of the most irresponsible words I know to have been asked by the High Council, and it is not enough to be taken, as men know. These are the warning words that I would like to put forth as often as possible until we create an arrangement in which we expect to be embarrassed, in which we ask ourselves: " How will we react? And how could we react if this is a failure in two years, not because economic management has failed, but because we live in a much and more complex and ever - changing world that we cannot predict what will happen? We do not know how financial systems will develop over time, we do not know what will happen to oil prices, we do not know what will happen to these major economic factors, so we must be prepared. And now, the time, a respectable president, is when it works out well. That's exactly when we should be wondering about the blackest picture, when we have the opportunity to prepare for the later events best. I'm not going to say any more about this subject. One thing I always notice when the budget is issued is the presentation. Perhaps I'm referring only materially to the team that I am interested in these days, the government agent of the Generals. An agent of the General Assembly is one of the two institutions that hear directly under the General Assembly, one of which is the emissary of the Generals and the other is the Reconnaissance, both of which are very important institutions to provide control and control of the European Commission. Not only in the past year, but centuries earlier, General's agent has taken a key issue and has shed light on a very serious violation of the administrative body. It is very important that we continue, in some way, to see and understand and react. One thing that Aldulis's agent takes care of is so - called initiative keeping. Prohibative observations are when the U.S. Marshal's agent notices something that seems to have gone wrong in the administration, at the top or below the administration, is of no importance, and examines it on behalf of the members of Congress who sit here and, of course, the general population. In this financial bill, I can see no better than that the Aldus agent's budget increases 28 million, which, of course, is better than nothing, but a figure that only reaches normal pay and similar; the General agent is still feeling too much money and certainly too much to continue his initiative. For example, the Allied agent does not have access to the disabled. This is one of the largest surveillance and maintenance agencies in the country, and it certainly is Generals. Of course, it's completely unacceptable, and it's very important that if the Council is interested in the role of the Generals agent, it's clear that the work of the Generals is clear and financed by this clear role. Up until 2011, an average of 300 cases a year came to the U.S. Marshal from the citizens of the country. Now there are about 500 of them, so the pressure has increased dramatically. Of course, for us to cope with the pressures, we need additional funds. In my opinion, there is a major reason for this added stress, and it is simply that the Allied agent has been doing very well for a very long time. He has tremendous trust, and he is very important, and most of all this was seen last year. If the Allied Parliament is going to use this agency to maintain and monitor the European Commission the funding must be credible. The secretary of the Generals has repeatedly told the committees and members of the council and anyone who wants to listen to him that he cannot do this work, which is initiative - oriented, unless he is able to get more money. It's not much money, it's about 15 million, or it's like there's a drop in the ocean in the context of the budget. This enormously important agency can maintain its operation for extremely little money, and I'm sure we will respond in a positive way. Most important, I'm going to the production of the budget bill that I've talked about here many times before, and I'm not tired of talking until it's fixed. When it comes to the production of a budget bill in general, it has to be said as it seems to take away the fact that these are books, and you are to turn these pages and overlay them with a color-tip and log into a calculator, etc. It's a good pay, it's clear enough in the prince's hand, but it's an opportunity to do all the details on how to handle the figures of a budget bill much better, in a single word: better. It is by providing the data in a way that makes it easier to use them with computers, to present them in computerized form so that any person in town can use the data and present them in a new way. When it is done, when data are placed in computerized form and placed in public, it will automatically become a respected president, without the government's interference, and without the help of members of the council to have some computer skills, not necessarily some but some, take the data and make something of which is much more useful to the public than the doll we get at the beginning of Congress. One of the finest examples of this is the fictitious tax, which is a very human approach to each tax paid. This is derived from raw data that may not be understood by most people, but individual computer nerds in a town understand easily and can easily be used. No one paid anyone to make their local tax. There was no committee, there was no assignment, there was no interpretation, it just happened. All that was needed was the data in a raw format. If the budget was presented in this way, with appropriate numbers such as inflation and various prices, it would happen automatically, I'm telling you. I'm telling you it would happen automatically. There are enough people in a town with enough computer and programming to take these raw data and make them something easier for the public to understand, the media makes it easier for them to dissipate, members of Congress to do something better. A budget should help you to act intelligently. It is really strange to have to hold such a talk over and over in 2015, but I have never heard any opposition to these ideas. Then I wonder why it's like this. Why is there not even an overview of money? What is it? It's like it's made so complicated to make you feel a little like you couldn't possibly understand it, except for one or two joints at once. It's weird, I don't think it's necessary, I don't like it. Perhaps this is because the system or some inside it simply hasn't taken the effort to update it in some way, to make it better. Maybe that's why, because I'm not going to blame anyone, it's just something we should do and we have to do and we'd better work around the budget pretty much. There is no more material in itself that I would like to discuss this time, and I have only a minute left of my time, but of course I take more of the subject coverage of the bill at 2nd. After having had more chance to gulp at this other fine dorn. I'll finish my speech with those words, a respectable president. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to express my joy with the financial bill at its height. Secretary of finance has submitted. I think we can all agree on the big movie. I think we must support it -- and I hope that it is true among all classes - that we use the money that comes into the state fund to reduce debt. That's key. Happily, financial resources, following a successful operation on the disposal of a currency school, are entering a trust fund. They must be used to pay off debt. This year's GDP is higher than any budget available for the land hospital and health insurance, and it will reduce anything if budgets remain. It will be a temptation to make use of the money that comes into various needs of work, but it must not be. While we have the high cost of growth today, we are in an orderly way reducing the standard of living for our children and grandchildren, nothing more complex than that. I hope that even if we handle certain issues, this aspect of the matter will be settled, i.e. taking advantage of the resources that come in to pay off debt - we are primarily thinking of children and grandchildren who have children and grandchildren and otherwise for future generations. I'm not going to go through it all in this short talk, I'm going to take a few things out. First, I will especially rejoice at the large step we have taken toward greater freedom of business. First, the fees taken off, which was a giant step - a shocking complex system - and now we are taking down the customs. All of this, both customs and goods, is in place because there was a certain kind of thinking here and a set of legislation that went on it; I think the law promised a law on unnecessary transport. There, preemptive politicians were raising prices that they viewed as unnecessary products for the common people. We were here with perfect jungles for goods and customs, and instead of trying to get into that jungle and try to get ready for them, we go to the top. The right thing to do is to destroy this forest - an all - out problem. I must admit that I find it odd to see some people's reaction to these plans, and especially to me, the response of ASI amazing. In this town, it is especially true that on January 1 this is not a good thing to do because of sales. It must be a cause for joy for those who are fighting for the least, at any rate, for those who have more than one hand can go to other countries and buy these products while those who may have less than one in their hands have to buy them at home. I've come forward, with all duets. paritaprevir The Independence Party, and will submit again, the Parliament's resolution on Iceland's business policy aimed at establishing our business policy to support the trade and trade of the country. We are in fierce competition with the outlands. This involves more than store - service people; it also turns toward tourism. We are more likely to be able to have a good and powerful transport service and can prepare it if our store is competitive with what happens elsewhere. And it is a pleasure to see - though it is. The financial and business committee, which is a great commission and has done a lot of good things, does not complete this case by some foolhardy--that what's put up in business policy is more and less to be put on top of it. Secretary of finance. I'm very pleased with that. I'd also like to express my special satisfaction with the purpose that we are here to establish a special business venture. The special way in which house - to - house conditions work is by helping people to make their home. We have been here with a very peculiar arrangement, which has come mainly to encourage people to owe their housing, and it has led to tragic consequences, with a so - called growth reform system. Happily, we are now, and we are seen in the financial body with the bill, by the bill, in helping people pay off debt, which is crucial. There will be traumas in both nations and individuals, and it is crucial that people have as little debt as possible. When people experience such tragedy that they have to sell themselves and go to another house, circumstances are often bad. Not only is this economically damaging but it can be a major threat to families, e.g. About where children are at school and about such things. We are to make good use of this enormous amount of money - because we have put vast sums of money on interest, not less money, but so - called correction in recent years - in helping people to pay off the head seat, in helping people find housing. The same is true if people are making their first home, we are expected to create situations where they can easily find housing. There's a pot broken, and it's not just about the government. It takes particular attention to rural areas here in the capital area, and particularly to the city of Reykjavík, when it comes to such things as surfaces and its expenses. It is intolerable that young people cannot buy homes today, but that is a fact. So we need to change, and to strengthen people's ability to use their special savings, which is, in fact, paid by both state funds and professional drivers, to buy their first apartment and pay off debt, is a very good way; of all the factors the government has taken, this is the best possible way. I've been fighting for this since 1995 when I first introduced these ideas along with the economists Magnús the Árni Skúlason, then on behalf of the Union of Young Independence, with Council Böðvar Jónsson and other good people, and I'll fight for this forward. I consider this to be a great victory and great joy. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Össur's Skarphéðinsson always supported us when he could in the struggle so that it is transferred into the council. There are a lot of things that are of utmost importance and I celebrate. As I mentioned earlier, the accompanying copy shows that we are able to reduce domestic housing debt. I don't feel much about it, for some reason, but it's all big stuff. I've thought it a little strange how some interests have responded when we're getting to a place where we have more business freedom than much of the nations we compare with. They point out that there are supposed to be more and that this is some kind of fake, because there are certain types of agricultural taxes to be introduced. In order to maintain it, we have so far, in the face of agricultural products, to the contrary, to be very liberal in our business policy; otherwise than the agricultural products produced here. Someone might say it was nothing at all. It's not. We have had no tolls or transport costs on a variety of agricultural products, wheat, sugar, or some other items that are considered to be in agriculture, and this differs from what happens in the European Union, for example. If we were to enter the European Union, the prices would rise because of customs increases in the European Union and in certain products that we seem to be for granted. [[Up front.]] Then, for example, I'm talking about goods from the United States, and it's not just agricultural products from the United States but other things. We have so far been liberal, but we are going even further now. And we can do this because we have an independent business policy. If we were in the European Union, we couldn't do this. We could not be laying down tolls of 1,600,700 customs if we were in a customs union like the European Union. That we choose our own business policy is an opportunity to make further use of it. But we need to recognize that agriculture has a special position in the world and that most nations that we compare with if not all of us have a measure of protection when it comes to agriculture that has a bearing on the culture of that society. Japan, for example, is in fact, the last time I examined, 800 percent toil in rice because they find it difficult to compete with rice in Australia and elsewhere, and they do so because they say that Japan wasn't Japan if it wasn't rice. However, we have the greatest protection on production, which is no Icelandic or actually linked to our culture, or factory farming. On the contrary, the price of lamb here, for example, is far lower than world prices. World market prices, of course, do not exist, but according to the lowest prices in the world, by OECD reference, lamb is at a lower price in this country than that of this global market price, beef so much like this. But much more expensive is the case with chickens and pigs, especially the chickens. We have a special status in that chicken meat is generally considered to be the cheapest food, but it's different here. This is an opportunity, if you want to discuss this part of reason, if you want to increase your freedom further, that we will give these production units a specific lead-in period and an import into that product. In itself, there is evidence that we have better quality on these products than many of the countries we compare with. The use of antibiotics is remembered in Norway and is remembered, or similar, in Iceland, in agricultural production, but much higher in the European countries, quite extraordinary. I'm no expert, but what I know is that meat products where antibiotics are used are worse than where they are not used. We need to maintain that special position, we need to maintain the wholesome quality of our product. There is something that will be our strength in the present and will be even greater in the future. True, I believe we can use these opportunities much better than we do, especially because of increasing tourism and now I hope those people who produce these products will be able to do so in increasing numbers. On the other hand, if people want to open competition through the factory industry, I think it's very sensible. Of course, it's all a competition with one another, but I would expect most people, when they think of these things, would still like to see here traditional farming equipment, and then I'd be referring to sheep and cattle, with special emphasis on quality. I would like to see the next market contract put special emphasis on agricultural quality, and we would be paying for it and setting high goals in this regard. But enough of customs. The important thing is that we are unquestionably on the right path. We're losing debt here. This is a third year off, it's a simple and lower tax rate, it's paying taxes on average, and that's very important. I don't know how to criticize them because they're the people who are supporting the economy. The richest people always have a chance, they can pay taxes where they want to. But average carers have less potential, and we especially need to consider when we are paying taxes to look at those people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u42	Mr. President. I'll start by thanking you. A senator for the speech. Me and what. A senator agrees on the importance of paying off debts and how important it is for the nation's position to be in a position to be in debt, to accept possible external traumas, they do not necessarily have to be present in this country. We agree on that, me and what. A senator, but we will continue to deal with how we will switch the benefits from a better position, i.e. the profit of the operation. Hv. A senator spoke of helping people find an apartment, and he went over it. I'd like to ask for a response from what? The senator to the fact that those in debt are borrowing 80 pounds from their homes. A million. K. to correct their status while the tenants have not received much. In the end of this budget bill 2016, housing benefits will only rise by 700 million. K. the remaining 400 million in 2015 are withdrawn as counter-improvement on food taxes. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that this is not good enough and that it needs to be done better with tenants? A lot. A senator fights for, or makes a change in his life?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the business and good answer and good questions. I'll fight for it as much as I can, and I've been doing it ever since I got involved in politics that we're trying here to improve the environment both for those who buy houses and for those who rent. But I feel that it's both sides of the same coin. We use our money very unwisely, in my opinion. We have also created a system that is completely insane, e.g. When it comes to paying a bill for people. I have come to people who pay high rent money, but they can't get paid, even if they pay each month. I know about one what's going on. A senator who's very well off, but he can't get through payment. We've got a system that's getting really bad. Besides, we don't have enough property supply. We're raising building costs for regulations, and we've raised the high costs of rural society in this regard. It affects not only those who are trying to find a home but also those who are renting. That's the big deal. 100, 200, 300 million to or, even if it's a billion dollars, is not the largest case. We have to go to rot. Because of what? A senator mentioned 80 of you. Millions to the subsidies of the capital, so if you take a few years in advance, you will have 80 to 100. Millions of people are making interest improvements. Yet they have not been used to comb the head seat in these people. That's a terrible thing to see. It's a big deal: I totally agree with my goals, but I want to go to the core of the problem. I've mentioned a few factors here that I believe are the very essence of the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to ask you later if I'm wrong. A senator believes that suggestions are best. The secretary of the house is attacking the core of the problem and whether the problem can be managed over a short period of time. A senator described earlier. Or is this a ten-year plan? The tenants face the problem today and find it on their own. In case of a moment. One member of the United States has a later answer, I wish that he would respond to the front page of the News magazine, which mentions the lack of 1,400 million. K. to prevent mold in the residence of the Land Hospital. As we stand firm, we have criticized that too few crowns have been maintained at the Land Hospital. It seems to me, according to the cover of the newspaper, that there is no response to the criticism in the financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u45	Thank you for some good questions. I'm gonna try to answer them all at this brief time. I'll start with that as long as possible. A senator last mentioned. That is exactly what happened when we had a better priorities. When I was in the health minister's chair and the collapse, we recommended that we hurry to rebuild a new hospital as much as possible. I think the best time would have been exactly at the point when the economy was relaxed, industrialists left the country, etc. It wasn't done. Before that time, however, it had been held up for a very long time because people were always building a new hospital. And now we're gonna get it right in our arms. We will not resolve this issue until we build a new hospital. In fact, when we receive a beautiful new scan, a princely gift, we need to build on it. It is as expensive as it can be. I had to put money on hold because there was nothing else to be done. It was in my heart ward, if I remember correctly. It was money that actually went -- I don't exactly say down to the sewer, but it was a short-term investment. This is a serious matter that we need to consider. Happily, this government has been setting priorities for health care, and it is evident in all numbers. Regarding housing minister suggestions: I'm concerned in general that we don't have enough trouble to get to the root. We have not provided enough systems to help people to make housing. That doesn't mean that I don't want people rent, that I don't want renters to have it as best they can. But if you can easily obtain a home, then housing will also be reduced, that says itself. I am concerned that when it comes to improving in general, such as interest reforms and housing, the interest benefits are actually useful to financial institutions and rent payments, not tenants. That's what worries me. We can go fast on this and have to go fast. This is an urgent problem. How unpleasant it is that young people today cannot easily buy an apartment or rent on a public market! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u46	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the talk and agree with what has been said here. Of course, our goal is to give up the money. Then there's a question about how we use the funding. I'm just going to continue the discussion, which was between the last members of the council here, i.e. the housing issues. V.E.G. The social and housing minister considers this to be a financial investment. I don't think that 1,500 million people can make up for today's needs. I think she's filming a rather big one in this regard. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier that building costs include raising on the grounds of regulations. I'd like to ask him what might be best fixed there, in his opinion. I agree that I don't feel like I'm at the root of the problem. There have been no direct suggestions on the part of the social and housing minister. She provided one bill of four at the end of the council, so we will see some picture of it. How does the senator feel that the country is being met by the laws of housing that the government is here to provide? For example, the construction cost mentioned here is considerable and as high as in the capital area. Then you move in and then you break the real estate prices because your real estate rate is much lower than in the capital area. It'll be practically holding up as soon as a person imports. Can the senator imagine that this is something that can be fixed to solve people's situation and really solve the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very objective and good answer and clear question. I'm going to answer them as well as I can, but if not, I'm not. A senator knows, and I try to follow through more fully. As far as it's necessary, I'm concerned about that point, as I mentioned. We obviously haven't seen a layout of these things. I was sitting in a group of the highest. A social minister on the premises where we returned some suggestions and went on this. True, I have a specific warning there, but the big thing is that young people can buy new apartments. Building rules need to be adjusted so that it is cheaper to build new apartments, small apartments that have started. That's the job. Similarly, land prices, property prices, and other factors in rural areas have increased dramatically, adding down to the cost of construction and thus to the market value. I think it's a big deal and a fundamental thing. As far as the country is concerned, I don't think we'll ever be able to escape the reported problem. It's been going on. I've been raised in the country, and I know it all right. When you build, especially in cold areas, and I hope people do it, the price will always be lower than the cost of the building. However, we need to ensure that, and I believe that there is something we're supposed to agree with, that people will be loaned on it, even if they know that the market is not good enough if the person goes ill and the loan agency has to take over the property. I have an idea in that relationship, but I can't go over it in ten seconds, but I can do it later. Then there are also factors that are relevant to living. I'm looking at what I'm doing here. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who has been preeminent in making light - headed for the whole country, which means that people can work and study no matter where they live in the country. [[The president calls.]] It has a direct bearing on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That is exactly what we have to deal with to balance the situation in the country. In what way? I don't have a solution, but this is a serious problem. Because the senator mentioned building them, I know that far too many places have not been built, and it is not necessarily in cold areas or borders. For example, at my house, I have not been built a house for ages, and there are many reasons. The senator has talked about growth improvements and that he feels that they are not ideal; he feels that it is something that ought not to be done and that he encourages debt collections. How are they different from the possible housing improvements, at the highest level? The social and housing minister is going to suggest, and the rent he prefers to be better than the interest. Then it is with the special kickback of the heart at the end of the night. A senator is very supportive of using him to buy his first apartment - what of those who do not have the opportunity to collect themselves? I don't like this intervention into the special kicker and would have wanted him to be at peace just to create a pension fund later than it's another matter. Those who cannot or who have the opportunity to gather themselves, what can he do for that person? So I'd like to say at the end, because he mentioned the telecommunications and the optics, to mention that I was so disappointed to see in the bill such a small sum of money. I believe that we are going to hear it on a budget board, and the country is going to be very much at odds with the fact that this is not being carried out with full weight because of the tremendous continuation of tourism, as we know, so this is important to the country's areas, as well as to the roads and other things that are not able to function in these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again. I'm gonna go over this in the wrong order and try to answer as well as I can in two minutes. The One who guides the light is a good thing to do. It's a legal committee. He's actually connected with a lot of traveling services. I understand that it has something to do with agriculture and then it's just the simple, which I feel is the strongest argument, when people in the country can't have their children on weekends because they can't learn. We must all understand this, and then we must intervene. We're on the right track. Work hard. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson is very good. It has a plan for us to do this work. I think it's wise, and we're supposed to follow it along and make sure that money is put on top of it. I disagree. A senator's opinion that this is the opposite of his special possession, i.e. collecting in a pension fund, if he goes to a house. You see, it's different sides of the same coin. I've got an interview session, I've had it since I started and I've been trying to let people have access to me... þm. Össur's ossuary can register at Valhalla, phone 515 1700, and I'll meet him tomorrow and I'll go over this with him. [[Where do you get checked out?]] - People who owe their house and are in their pensions are in a lot of trouble. [[Up top: it's over.]] It is a savings whether you want to live in a relatively cheap house or to sell it and reduce it, it is worth no less than the pension fund people get every month, so it's each one's side of the same coin. I'm not sure I'll achieve everything I can. I'm so happy when I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance speaks for things I've been speaking for decades. I'm concerned that interest improvements are primarily for financial institutions. I'm worried that rent subsidies are going to the landlord's house. I'm thinking tenants and people buying houses. I'm thinking how we can make the best use of our money if we put the interest benefits, and I don't talk about the funds in the apartment loans that have become more of a new hospital to pay off people's capital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then there wouldn't be any problem here, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u50	A respectable president. First, I want to describe satisfaction with the reversal that has taken place in the financial affairs of recent years. We can agree to rejoice at seeing how well things are going, how much money is now planned, even though we may have different views about how the space is new, and on whether it would be a reason to have this rest even greater in terms of a natural exchange for those who use the common resources of the nation. We see now the unprecedented fishing industry at the time the government has set in motion to reduce the resource costs of marine soil and, just as we blew it at the beginning of the fishing industry to pay the normal fees for common resources, we also allow ourselves to put in place the real cost of tourism and help it raise the prices of its unprecedented expansion periods, when we should be paying off its natural expenses. This truly is a fine achievement, and as the Þorsteinn of Pálsson in an excellent pillar today, it is the success of all governments from collapse. How happy we are that we have been successfully coping! I'd like to run on some of the things that are at the top of my discussion when you watch this budget bill, and first, try to explain to the highest level. Secretary of finance the nature of the United Nations proposal, which has been proposed to improve the social security costs that correspond to the minimum until 2018 so that they will be in 2018 300 levels. K. This does not have any social benefits, as the minister said this morning, and if he thinks it is a matter of raising unemployment, he would misread the bill. It's about improving the quality of social security because those who are pensioners do not have the option to make up their income with jobs. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance says that the impulse to work is being prevented, but he does not fully understand the context of the parts, since neither pensioners nor micro-energy pensioners are in general available for work. As we need to encourage disability professionals, we do well to consider whether we are actually building an incentive for the present system where taxes fall on every precious dollar and it reduces social security benefits. Perhaps it would be reasonable to hear suggestions for microenergy pensioners or sensibilities who earn a modest income, either that they will not reduce social security benefits or reduce them to a lesser extent, so that it would not be so that they would lose 75 dollars per cent at a time as they are experienced today. But according to the highest word. Secretary of finance, when he returned, corrected himself against what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir earlier, I can't understand him except that he is on the ground agreeing to improve the quality of the pensioners. Then I'm bound to score to the highest. Minister to support the bill we've submitted to the United States Parliament. This does not mean, according to the sounds, any changes in unemployment. Rather, it means only that pensioners enjoy to the full the safety of the workers as well as those in the labour market. That is why there are obvious reasons for justice, since they are not in general in a position to make up for less living on a job. It is interesting to see in the budget that the messages to the middle - income family are simply: You continue to move out of the country. No matter where you look in the straddlers, the growth system, the child - reform system, the birthworm, the rent - care system, in all the systems, people in the middle are falling out. The opportunity, space, is not used to raise the budget. Rather, there is only a modest increase in sums of 3% in the child - welfare system, none in the growth system. In addition to increasing wages, people in average take spill out of these systems. In the case of the birthworm, the decline limit is also not followed by normal pay development, so we young people in the country's average income face a reality when it comes to government support that the sky and sea are between Iceland and other Northern countries. Of course, in that context, you must see that neither is doing anything new in housing. As a result of increases in pay and home debt, the state saves 1,500 million in interest of interest, and this is precisely what is meant in social deposit camps, allowing the average wage in the country's cities for building new social housing. There is no new contribution on the part of the government on that assignment. It is also a big question why the government does not fully establish a financial agreement with the labour market partners. I'm asking if the government hasn't learned from the mistake of going against promises to the labour market in recent years, which drove us off to the point where we're still in trouble. Will she repeat the game of betraying contracts for the labour market parties? You must ask yourself that question. I'd especially like to follow that statement. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son and what you can hear from the senators of the Future Party provides protection for the growth system. The appeal of these senators is largely clear that housing is unusual and if the State supports and pays interest, it is an impulse to owe. Not everyone is born with a silver spoon in his mouth, and some people have to owe themselves to build homes and in a country where interest levels remain much higher than those in neighboring countries were created as a protection for ordinary people to gain something. It is strange to hear over and over again that people have to be in debt to buy housing and that they are somehow committed to the members of the Independence Party and to the U.S. What a misdemeanor. The financial bill expects a long timely reduction in clothes and shoes, and I welcome it, but I think it's very peculiar to see the independents come up in the Council's symposium and boast of a non-employable land and toll - free country at the same time that they remain a loyal guardian for supertoll on food. It is quite amazing to see that the independence party has become completely united with the forward movement, and even the minimum freedom tendencies on the part of the Independence Party are not sparked by the release of the problem of agriculture. And already the highest. The minister of finance gave his half - gray talk about the benefits of freedom in a discussion about Prime Minister policy, careful not to discuss freedom in importing agricultural products. Of course, the situation in which the state has always been limited, and this government has already used much of the scope of the miscommunication, which was used in many cases by people who were not in any debt problem and knew him only by hearsay, and as a result, the scope for much less is in terms of reasonable action on the part of the State. It would have been desirable to make use of and put first the use of space to reduce insurance bills. It was our campaign policy in the United States, and I still think that it would have been the smartest thing to start with the reduction of insurance bills more than anything else. This would have increased the scope of the companies to increase their salary and support of knowledge and innovation. Finally, you have to advertise the advance in this discussion. I see a chairman sitting in a side room, and I want to challenge her to speak in the discussion because this is from the top. The secretary of finance suggested to sell parts at the National Bank, which are directly contradicted by the approved advance policy of the advance Party from spring to the U.S.A. that the National Bank be fully maintained in the possession of state and be converted into a community bank. It's a bit fun to see here the surging candidates who are not even properly ashamed of betraying such a new, free, free policy of their own party council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u51	Mr. President. I thank you for the talk and especially what points to what we can agree about, but I'm also happy to have a place to talk about other things, and I'm just going to put in on social security benefits. I think it's important to have a conversation about that. It's so big that we've agreed to have cross-coordinated cooperation and close cooperation with stakeholders to see the social security system. When I talk about subsidies, I was not the least referring to the movement of the United States that I think has often appeared in a Senate hall that unemployment may be as high as the lowest wage, I don't think it's a good policy. I don't see anything else on this new forward bill but talking about any social benefits to go up, including unemployment rates, to $300. That's how I read the bill, but it may be wrong. Nevertheless, when we look up to 2018 in relation to the plans in the maps now, improvements will go up considerably, not just next year, but in the years that follow. They will be up to some 270 thousand in 2018. Here comes the Conspiracy and says, "There's gotta be 300 grand." Yet, there is quite a difference. If we were to take these straddlements and other benefits, as I've read the bill, up to 300 thousand, it would be a 40% increase in social security costs in Iceland, an increase of 40%. It seems to me that the cost would be about 40 billion more, a very rough estimate, and then, of course, the question arises: How should all of this be financed? Then, at the same time, you will talk about the amount of insurance that is supposed to depend on some of the funding of this system, but if you were to maintain the same financing of the system, it would really need to be raised. [[The president calls.]] If there is a 40% improvement in the rate of this period, there is actually a talk for an increase in insurance. Or should we just grab this money somewhere from the ceiling?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u52	A respectable president. The money doesn't have to be taken out of the air. There are many advantages to increase the revenue of the state fund that the government has passed on, which I traced earlier, and we can take a special discussion about. The bill makes it clear that it will only improve social security, and the reason is that we want to make a motion that is effective. We don't even go so far as to say that we're going to make 300 grand for everyone. We say that the benefits of those with household chores should be achieved. We do this as moderately, gently, and wisely as possible. But it is simply an example that when a special minimum wage contract is made that aims to raise the lowest wage because it is considered morally undefeated, it is given special financial support. We did so in 2011 when special low-pay agreements were made, and then we added the corresponding amount to the social security system. Then, as to the fact that the United States has in some special way outreached that unemployment reform should be in line with the lowest salary, it is true that we have not seen any particular sense in starving policy. And for the theory of the highest. To this end, a minister suggests that unemployment rates are near the lowest wage, that is, a dogma that is not for any material reason. We have seen unemployment decline in Iceland's rapid declines in recent losses despite the lack of unemployment. When we dealt with, for example. In 2009 and 2010, we do not improve unemployment rates, which are simply a result of strong material evidence and material experience in all countries that others are more important. Unemployment, of course, is not meant to be an alternative to pay, but there is nothing to say that starving unemployable people are to encourage employment participation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u53	Mr. President. I didn't think there was to be a long discussion about it here in the Hall that it really matters how the catalyses are in the systems we create and that there is an incentive built into the systems to survive. It is my position regarding unemployment that when unemployment knocks on our door, we need to have a very tight support system. We need to re-employ and all such resources and reform systems should not be such that those in there, as we had a short period of time, may be there for three years without a real motivation to get into the workforce. That's my opinion. Then it's just the League of this suit, and in general, it's time for people to come here and say, "The daughters are supposed to go up to $300." What they did when they were in power was that they cut the benefits, that they brought more impairment. We've been winding off of it. We are about to go to the biggest inflation that has taken place, and then people who have previously lost their compensation will say: This is not enough at all. Is it not true that we are greatly improving our efforts? We're making a big deal of money from those who have to rely on the social security system, and that's a good thing, that's what we agree with. Then we can race forever for what is enough. But it is rather inexpensive to say: It just needs to be a little more. The point is, we're making a big deal of money from those who have to rely on the social security system, and therefore they have to celebrate. We must aim to do better than we should not go to some statement, and I feel that those who have had little else to offer in this field than to cut the benefits in recent years did not have the basis for making an enormous offer. Then I'm just gonna say about the agricultural system: wasn't the United States in 2007 and 2008 and 2009 also 2010, 2011 and 2012, and up until 2013? But now one has to say, it's natural to overthrow the agricultural system. Why was this long power period not used to bring any connotations into the seem to be talking about now? [[The president calls.]] Are they really going to deny that if there are major changes in agriculture customs, it will be the result of the production in the country? [[The president calls.]] Who can't see?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u54	The president asks why. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u55	A respectable president. Clearly, they need to teach the highest. Secretary of the budget something about the alleged decrease in the Community on social security benefits. From 2007 to 2008, we greatly increased them. When the crash occurred, the highest. The secretary of finance seems to overlook this, and a bridge had to be raised to more than 200 billion on the state's budget, providing suggestions from the Independence Party for reinvigoration, which is confirmed by the Supreme Court to be a violation of the Constitution. And then there were suggestions from the Independence Party to change, e.g. the adductation of the permafrost to the point where income ratio would be transferred to 60%. None of these things we did all the time of surgery, none of this. We didn't reduce the lowest social security benefits of a dollar, tops. The secretary of finance needs to learn more about the facts, not a dollar. [[Up front.]] We didn't reduce unemployment insurance benefits for a dollar or two. We cut better off the pensioners in such a way that basic pensions were cut at 215 levels. K. and he fell down at 330 you. K. A pension fund. It was our impairment, and then there was a decline due to a 45% income that had fallen to 38% just before a crash, temporarily returned to 45%, temporarily. [[Take it up: All...]] All that was now the decrease and the hearing from the highest level. Secretary of finance that he does not even know the facts. We increased in an orderly way by the lowest social security and unemployment insurance benefits throughout the terms of the last term and when we made special low paying contracts, we put extra money into the system to ensure that the lowest public security benefits could be paid because it is part of the basic Community policy policy that there should be an improvement in terms of social security at the lowest wage level. That is why we are offering suggestions that are in full agreement with our actions at the time we were dealing with unprecedented financial problems. And hearing these temple monasteries at the highest level. The minister of finance is below all caves in these materials, but unfortunately I do not have the opportunity to look through his nose as much as his position of safety in agriculture as it would allow for a future opportunity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u56	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Secretary of finance that it is quite surprising to hear such corrosive statements from what happened. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's reign, the Athenian Árnason who supported the 2007 government in agriculture. And already, this government has done far more in freedom than the last government. In fact, it was in the administration procedures of that government that called for salutations on imported foods, something that was better reversed and the changes made by the government. A member of the council was certainly a latecomer of freedom, and there were other factors. I hope so. A senator was deliberately mistaken when he said that not everyone has a silver spoon in his mouth and we're talking against having to go into debt to buy a house. There is no way to offer this lawsuit to a conquistador of Congress. The amount of money we are putting into the housing business has been over and over again. It is vital that they use their time to help others to make their home. The arrangement has not been like this. In the past, I met people who came from their accountant and were counseled to borrow more money to get interest benefits, otherwise they would fall down. This is an unwise way to help people find homes because the nature of the situation in general almost everyone has to borrow money to buy housing. [[Up front.]] We are talking about making better use of the money to help people make housing. If we had done this since 1995, the situation in this country would be much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u57	A respectable president. I'm happy to talk to you about what. A member of the Parliament on whether to pay the people any general housing support if that is what he is doing, but interest improvements were found because interest levels in the country were unbearable for people, and ordinary people are unable to pay off regular housing without interest. What the government is doing right now is exasperating more and more groups of average earners, and that's why there's room for 1.5 billion savings in interest because there's no thresholds up and average carers are just left on cold ice with a Icelandic interest level. Hv. A senator may then come and say that he had some other ideas in 1995, but there are no new ideas in the financial bill on how to meet the cost of housing and the problems people face in building their own housing on the average. The government leaves these people behind. For example, she met a debt exchange that won people on a very high salary with little or no debt, and she made a fortune in her real estate. Our warnings in this regard were ignored, and we did not find any suggestions to limit the debt exchange in this regard. For example, there was money that could have been used for additional support to people with medium incomes. The government and the government business just can't escape the fact that people are leaving average earners on cold ice because they don't let their growth reform system get on with these people. It would be nice to hear from the government if it has any other system to support people to get a roof over their heads, but it has not been recognized.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u58	Mr. President. I just don't know where it is. A senator has been. He asks about other suggestions, but we were placing money directly on the housing property of individuals. There's another idea, and it's been made. [[Up front.]] If you're saying that average earners didn't enjoy these, I encourage men to look at numbers. You can take a little perimeter case and say: "This is where some rich person got this. That's not the big deal. The big thing is the public. Similarly, we allowed people to use their special savings methods, which means that they get payment, tax-free, also a contribution from the employer, to pay off their mortgages. And what does that mean? Less interest and less payments need to be paid. And what does that mean? As a result, growth improvements are lower. But, hey. A senator feels that it is a special goal to cover interest improvements, which distinguishes me from what I am. Senator. I believe that it is a special goal for the people to have their home, that they can live a good life, and there is no doubt that if we had spent all the money we have, for example. set to the apartment loan fund - we've put money in the fund and most unnecessary - to pay off national mortgages or to help people buy their first apartment, the public in this country would be in much better business and, in fact, a government fund too, because that's the goal. Of course, it would be best if interest rates did not exist because the people did not need them, were low in interest of interest, and had little debt. We have not been there, but there must be joy, not bad, when people pay less interest and when people owe less in their home. That's what's shown in numbers and facts in the Department's follow-up with the financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u59	A respectable president. The growing relief system is now no worse than that it has been supported by a steady decline in the debt of the homes just since collapse, and it was a very important part of the development of people in difficult times during the collapse. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Hv. A senator comes here and talks as if the great transfer was some ongoing task. Will the government, then, regularly put money in order to help people pay off their throne? In 2010, people borrowed a loan, and they have not received a cent in deduction or correction, or whatever this bixier is now all called, people are now out of the rising pay to be flushed out of the growth reform system and have no support. There was a payoff on the grounds that they would receive interest improvements and that by not paying back the standards of the growth reform system, the government was removing help from these people that they originally walked out. Is anyone talking about failure? Senator? This government is behind all those who have purchased from collapse, and it prevents other support systems that enable young people to achieve the desired function at the same time because the child - reform system is not paid, and there is a very harsh limit, and because the birth - power thresholds have not been increased. So if people look at the message from this government, they're very clear: keep running.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u60	Mr. President. Reading the spell is really remarkable. 1 on policy and outlook, on the bill for financial gain, it reminds you of how short it is since we were in this hall, we wrestled a huge angle on the state's budget. Picture on page 19. 45 showing the contribution of the State Fund from 2005 to the year 2019 it is very well illustrated. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity here at the beginning of my talk to say that, of course, the positive news that we are getting out of these storms, and as I have said many times before, it is proper to keep all classes involved in that assignment and to share in building up the economy after this difficult crisis. That, too, directly says on page 18. 64 members of the Parliament that the tax system had to be modified to a significant degree after a collapse and, as it is said, by the permission of the president, by sagast in it, and by means of a variety of additionals. But then there is the policy of the present government, which considers it necessary to simplify the system again. Now I'm going to say that there are certainly some downs on taxes that can be of the good. In particular, I would like to mention a reduction in the insurance fee we've been talking about in the left movement, a green supply. However, I allow myself to ask again and again, and have done so since 2013 when the current government began, whether it was time to change the tax system that was immediately attacked by due tax declines, we can name a non-expansive wealth taxation, an energy tax that was not extended, a decline in hunting costs, and so forth. I believe the political decisions that the present government made at the beginning of its terms have resulted in reducing the rest that we could now have to pay off debts and start building structures. So even if I agree with someone else. Councilmen who celebrate a better time ahead, I believe, first of all, that the situation could have been considerably stronger, considerably better, and secondly, I'd also like to say that if the discussion of the economic situation taking place in the world, there are some signs that we could even be looking at the front of another crisis, and I don't consider it particularly reasonable to weaken the government's income institutions in the way that the present government has done at this pace. It's number one. I think this is an unwise arrangement in view of the possibility that we could be looking in the face of another crisis. There was a news story yesterday from economist Willem Buiter, who is famous for predicting the crisis in Iceland, who believes that there are signs that we might be looking forward to a significant international recession. So I think that men walked quite quickly through the happy door to attack on taxes primarily on ideological grounds. It can be said that those who fell asleep in the collapse, so to speak, are waking up again to make the entrance okay, but let us also look at that in the government tax policy, to reduce the rate of taxes. This is a call to reduce them from three to two, and we also know the measures that have already been taken and I have mentioned, and this is contrary to the advice we receive from international institutions such as OECD. I'd like to remind you that it's only in December 2014 that OECD sent a report, I don't know which of its scripts was, but she could have carried the headline of a chasmal economics, which she could have carried. Not all benefit from the fact that the rich are given the means to store up as much money as possible. The fact is, the system that has been building up in the Western world is that those with the most money and most money have the best opportunity to increase that wealth. That's why the growing dissensions of wealth we see in the world and also in Iceland. Although it is true that government spokesmen have pointed out that income balance has increased in Iceland, especially as a result of the actions of former government and, by far, is the greatest growth in wealth on land as it is elsewhere. I think the government and all of us in this hall should take note of OECD's advice, which will late be considered a radical international institution, which directly allows the world's governments to consider changing their taxes so that the wealthy will pay a fair part of their income in taxes, higher income taxation will be put on more material taxes, will be turned away from tax laws that will benefit especially the interests of the people and will be reimbursed. Why does OECD make this clear? Is that merely to ensure an equality as a form of ideologies? No, directly because of the fact that the Agency's research shows that equalizing communities has also been the most economic factor. It is also thought - provoking when data show us that economic systems have simply grown smaller because of inequities. Those comments, of course, that I've done before with the government tax policy, I reiterate in this 1st coverage. of this year's budget, for the government continues on the same path declaring the reduction of tax steps in the name of simple, not necessarily in the name of reason. There's been a lot of good going on here in talks, including... has the wisdom to reduce taxes when predicting inflation of 4.5%. We're already hearing a warning that this might be a challenge, so we're going to have to look at it very carefully at our work and in discussions about the bill. I'd like to take this brief period of time that I have to name the outposts. Of course, it is positive to be added to various categories of issues, but that is what raises questions, to form in terms of structure. Then let me give you a special travel fund. Of course, the tour service has been the growth wand of Icelandic employment, and it may not have had enough attention in political discussions here at the council when it is seen that the growth in this country is far out of universal growth in international tourism. While there is widespread growth in international tourism, this growth is far beyond that. This is predicted to increase globally until 2030, and it also predicted continued growth in the country over the next few years, and in 2015 will be another record year. In view of this, of course, it is noteworthy that a tourist position is replaced by the Commission's funds. It has been explained that he has not been fully fortified, that people are not prepared to use this strength, but this shows a lack of policy. Then I'll get to it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson mentioned in his first speech. This is the problem with the beginning of the last government. I specifically mention the investment plan as a whole. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Steingrímsson made it a subject in the past where investments were decided on in research, innovation, infrastructure, tourism, and tourist attractions. It was decided to turn all of this around on the grounds that the investment plan was not worth the effort. It turned out to be wrong, e.g. when surveying funds from financial companies to the state that would be sufficient to finance that budget. Since then, we've seen these teams picking in. I agree with the people who are happy that this is an addition to research and innovation. I have no doubt that it will turn out well. Why, though, was it not possible to continue and live up to the decision made in 2012 to add just an investment in research and innovation? That's the key to the prosperity of society. That's my conviction. All I've seen is that everybody here agrees on it. I call it despotism, in reality, which has led to the current government, when all of these plans were eliminated, whether in the structure of this field or in a travel service, but of course, it takes the community. It costs society to be cut into a research fund from year to year because long - term plans cannot be made. That's exactly what we're going through in the tourism service, there's no way to make long - term plans because there's no way of putting money into the tourist's budget and starting with other ideas, which seem to be almost put out of the way of presenting other ideas, because they don't even seem to have the support of more part of the council. So the offense is in control and must be done. It will cost us to have not invested in tourist areas in a way that we should do in these huge export roads that will give us enormous money just this year. We look forward to growing, and I ask: Is it all in order to avoid making any decisions, not to be prepared again next year, in a new tourist year? The financial bill seems to show that there is a lack of policy on large issues, and according to them, we must call on a discussion on the subject here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the speech. Before talking about the subject of the budget bill, I would like to point out just one thing that I would like to be aware of when it comes to publishing the budget bill, which is, for example, the indexing of this thick book and making it a little better design so that it is easy to look up the bill. [["No, it's...]] The first thing we senators do and others when they look at it is usually putting lots of tickets because it's not as good as it should be. I also find very much repetition and wonder that a new Ministry doesn't start at the right page at the top. I'm offering my help for the production of a budget bill next year. This can be made more readable, clearer, and more specific. The same is true of the little tie. So you just have to read it from word to word, you can't read it, and I think this is about 630 pages. everything. Sometimes I get the feeling that there's been some words that were trying to hide something. I don't think that's necessary. Other than that, I'd like to say that there are very good explanations in the bill, but you could make it better. I'm just gonna talk about what I think is positive. I'm completely satisfied with fixing tolls on clothes and shoes, which is the next step to decommissioning customs. I just think it's a matter of equality that people who can't go abroad and shop for better terms can do it here at home. There is much work to do to strengthen a domestic store. This does not appear in the bill, and it may be difficult to calculate the extent to which this will increase shop, which says that loss of income will be due to this change, but it is expected to result in more shops and more income, especially in the form of a valuable tax. But I'd like to put a lot of emphasis on one thing. It is that when such projects are carried out, some type of surveillance or effort will be assured to achieve the best results for consumers. This was not the last time the worthy tax changes were made amongst other foods and other things. However, this was done in 2007 when the value of food tax was significantly reduced. A few million were put in charge of the Ecosystems of ASI, Navitors, and the Neighbours Association to monitor the market for several months before, and when the change went through, the decline was observed to the consumers. Of course, sellers of goods and services place as much stress on the product as they get away with it. Of course, consumers are watching and choosing the best benefits, but when such changes are made, it can be difficult for an individual consumer to get the sense of the market. I was disappointed when I saw that the budget bill didn't seem to be expected for, for example. Neighbours Association or Nettomium on this project. I'll talk more about it later. I think it's extremely important. These are small coins that can make sure consumers enjoy the benefits. I also agree with what has been said here on decommissioning customs that we should look to food as well. Nobody's talking about any sort of asteroid or taking off all the toll tomorrow. It would always have to be done over a period of time, slowly, and biting. The first step, of course, would be to eliminate foods that are not produced in Iceland. Parmesanost isn't produced in Iceland. Then why can't I just buy it? He's not competing with any other goods. Why should a toll be placed on the pamesanost, for example? This could be the first step, so we will speak in a bright future. I also notice a big case that is the State's Penitentiary. I think I'm right about the financial program that was introduced in spring expected that commitments should be paid. I remember we asked the highest part. A minister would want to use the leftovers to comb them or borrow them because the text was not completely clear. I never really understood the answer. I don't see -- I'm saying that I haven't read this letter for letters -- that this is a deposit on the pension debt and that's interesting to me. I'm glad that we're only going to reduce taxes, customs, and curses, but I'd rather just like to wait on them and go on this big project because these commitments are huge and when they fall off full weight, we're talking about many billions of dollars a year that the government needs to pay. So it's no small deal. I feel like we're pushing this before we do, and I think it's irresponsible. Another big issue is the simplicity of the merit tax system that began with this government. The simplicity in itself was not simple, it was just changing the tax steps, they're still two. I don't see any continuation of that job. In a bright future, we could imagine one last level of worth - taxation, but we called in particular after seeing what was our goal, where we were heading, and how many years. It's as if the first step has been taken and then they've just stopped. That's what I feel I need to answer right here. Did this simplicity of leaving 7% to 14% come about? Is that the only formula? I don't think it explains well enough. We also need to consider suggestions on setting the income tax in two steps. I'm Greek at that, but I'll look at it with an open mind. I think it's something we really need to take a good look at. As I understand this, the middle class gets the most, but maybe those who make more money in that group. I have the right to change my mind, but at first glance, I'm karytian. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Páll the son of Árnason, I miss candidates in this discussion. I don't see any of my friends in the advance group here or they've come up for a speech chair. You get the feeling that this is the financial bill of the Independence Party we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u62	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of finance - wherever he is now. Now I think I have a good understanding of reading, and that in many languages, but I don't understand these laws. They're out of order, too badly put out to be used. This blessed book, which refers to a good book of Harry Potter, for example, does not have a dictionary, not with a index of contents, and there is no reason for it not to be. We have reached the 21st century, and this can be done quite easily. I see no reason why this blessed index-fidius can't be used, which is available in the Word document or in any program in which the budget is written. It's as if this was deliberate, to make the budget impossible and inaccessible. Why are the laws not expressed, as they do in Denmark? Why is there no logical support for each unit taken in front of each tablet in the disintegration? It is by chance whether a senator can find the past in the disintegration in the central comment on the budget bill. For example, a section of 04-801 is covered with payment for milk production, with a total cost of 6,759 billion. K. There's no logical support here. The only information about the past is found on page 20. 320 by pressing Ctrl+F in the pdf file and looking for it, which is in a team that's discussed in the Food Institute. So there's no logical support for feeling how tax money is divided into that team, and I don't understand it. I don't know how this work is going to go on, and it's like it's normal. For example, there is no record of what an unsaturized support is. What is it? I would love to know what that word means. Now I'm new to the council. There may be some things I have to learn, but I don't like it very much. Now, I'm not saying that this is not an essential factor. Rather, I am simply taking it as an example of the indiscriminateness of the financial law. There's nothing more to be found on this main point. There's no information, nothing. This blessed book, which is just over 500 pages, is not a novel, it is our budget. That they are so badly placed up, apparently, with a long line of text dealing with the different joints of the process -- there is simply preventing ordinary people from getting the sense of what is going on. My honorable colleagues here at council sacrifice hands, so I know it's not just me, who's just joined the council. I'll call it in, to the highest. A secretary of finance who sits here, or not, that this can be accessed in accessible form. And the raw data need to be published as well. It's not enough to publish it as if it's a paper program because it's a computer program and no reason why the CSV legs, or something like that, are not thrown out on the Internet as well. Then people might start working a little more on this. Some well - chosen tablets are not enough. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance doesn't want people to understand what's going on here. The first thing I can think of is Star Wars' Chewbacca, who says a lot of things and really, really, really, without a lot of help. Sometimes it is better to say a little less and be more specific so that the public senator and citizen understand what is going on. It is not as if every senator has three assistants who can dive into this with him. Given the magnitude of the budget, and how important it is for the whole of Iceland, it must be a fair and timely requirement to make it more accessible. I hope you're on top of it. The secretary of finance is interested in making further progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u63	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for saying what most people have thought over the years. You're absolutely right. Senator. This is something that has been discussed in the public talk but perhaps in other places. I'd like to say, though, that's a very unfair, respectable president, of course. A senator - and I know what to do. A senator is new and may not have fully entered it - to be ashamed of the present. Secretary of finance for that. It's been this long and it's been the highest. The secretary of finance has, in fact, twice - if not three times, passed the bill on public financial matters, which, in part, has the aim of improving the development of budgets in the current direction. A senator mentioned, and is very necessary. Hv. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's father also gave us excellent suggestions, and we have heard some comments in this regard and have discussed it more recently than often before. It should be possible to specify this in a way that all the people of the community can easily enter it. The worst part, though, is that we don't see what the budget was before, or the financial rights to individual institutions, etc. Hv. One senator mentioned that it is difficult to understand what each body member means, and I think it is true. But in a similar way, we also need to know who the trend has been in that institution, we can say, or financialize. I agree with what. Senator and thank her for recording this. I'd like to say, though, and I think that we all agree on that if we look at it, it's very unfair to say anything. The secretary of finance, who consistently brings in a bill that hopefully goes through, which, among other things, has the goal of implementing a better presentation on these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u64	A respectable president. I don't think it's unfair to make a requirement to the current secretary of finance that he takes advantage of the options that already exist in the systems in which the bills are being written. It is not as if it is a big problem to create this material file or a dictionary. It's easy to get here. When you have a file like this, it's called having a ◯headings, then you've got ◯subheadings, and then the program can take it and make it very easily. This is possible in Word, it has been possible for ten, fifteen, twenty years. It's not like it's something new, it's just a matter of doing this, it's gonna take 15 minutes. In case of a moment. Secretary of finance would give me access to the raw fur, whether it's in Word or LaTeX, or I don't know what, I could do it myself. So this is a very reasonable requirement, that I think, and that this has not been done before is really shameful, I must say so. I'm sorry, I have to disagree. A senator says that this is an unfair requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u65	A respectable president. I've been ashamed of a respectable president for saying English words in this chair, but it's obviously over. I know some of those terms, but I'm not gonna start teaching the Senate how to use them, I'm no expert in that. Yes, well, I'm not going to argue with what. A senator. But I don't think it's fair when it's the highest. Ministers repeatedly try to come against the bill that has it as a goal--saw it from a ◯headings'-temperature, though I don't want to belittle it, and a what it is now, and what it is, and what it is, I don't want to belittle it--to make it clear, so we can see it properly. [[Up front.]] It's missing. I think in this, like in other things, we're going all the way. We are here with a bill, which includes the aim of this factor to be ensured. I'd much rather we focus on it and drive it through so that we can handle the whole thing, although I'm sure we can tap into the terms I mentioned earlier and I'm not going to mention again. That's what I stress and draw attention to. I hope so. A senator will add his weight to the scales to finish the official financial bill. Hopefully, the next thing that keeps converging over it is so that most of us, not just wriggling. Councilmen hold all the public, can better understand the important legalities, can include them, and have opinions based on facts. Let us agree that we do not agree to teach the highest order. The secretary of finance on this subject, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that he has repeatedly delivered a bill that I believe we agree to be improved, at least in this aspect. I hope so. A senator will support it as that work begins this fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u66	The president proposes that the term is of course. Councilmen were discussing and using the foreign - language term for the title or subheading. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u67	A respectable president. I agree that it is time to take over when it comes to public finances. I'm glad I'm at the top. Secretary of finance is offering a bill and the third time. There are many things that have to be done, but that does not mean that something can be done now, especially when there is such a slight change in subtitles and titles, so that I use the correct Icelandic word, which can be put in order right now. I don't see a reason not to do both.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u68	Mr. President. I want to be like many others here who have spoken by first thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for preparing for a financial bill and his history for this day. It is very important that we be getting such mastery over government matters that the bill testifies to and has no one told anyone else here at the Senate Hall and in the conferences on this important matter, but that humans agree that one of the most important things we do is to master government affairs, stability of government. That's good for all of us. At this point in my speech, I understand the natural paths between politicians and political parties on emphasis, and it is not unusual. This is where some lost income companies and lost taxes. In all of this, there are many words and references to how good they were and how important they were. But the most important policy is that we've reached stability, we've got some money left over, and now we can start with what we've been waiting for a long time, i.e. to add to important classes of subjects, as we've been close to today's speeches. Here are large - scale contributions to welfare, housing, health care, and financial support. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the bill, there are lawsuits like addition to home nursing in the country. Nurse homes are being added to their case, nursing programs, and the development of nursing homes. There are plans and suggestions to increase contributions to scientific and technological development, and so on. There are proposals for judicial reforms, and then we can mention the emphasis of the minister in a few skilfuls and these more government items that appear in the budget. This has somehow happened, so most of our business is agriculture, and in the most unlikely cases, we talk about agriculture, including. in a fine talk that was given earlier. Hv. A senator spoke of inaccuracies and perhaps more about information technology and library science than the financial laws himself, but it is just when discussing the budget, discussing some of the major areas of agriculture, and the discussions that have been required to eliminate customs. To be sure, customs are not an independent goal in this, rather than any other. Second, customs and practices are just as much a result of government employment every time. In the past, we had a job policy on using customs to support specific productions, but we have now left most of it. And when the discussion comes to food and especially on farms, I often feel that people have a lot of perspective over the group in order to be reasonable about it, i.e. of greater reasonableness, but I often think it's done. I'm not going to go deeper in this year than that on other people's case issues. It's simply that way, as in fact, was presented in a fine speech. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son, in Iceland, enjoys a state of liberality with respect to agricultural customs. It is a very well - preserved secret in official discussions in Iceland. Most of the world's agricultural products, we move in without customs. It's reality, but it's also a very well-kept secret in Iceland that when we talk about standing prices, customs, services, and homes, they also forget to tell of the fact that in the global economy here and the rest of the world, the agricultural products brought in here without customs are relatively more expensive in Iceland than the products produced by the infamous Icelandic tolls used to protect domestic production. That's what I wanted to say in this discussion about the plans of most things to drop down and simplify the customs system. But when you look at the system, I think it's surprising to many that the amount of money you make is actually getting from that toll, based on the extent of the system being run around them. However, there are many positive results in reducing goods in other ways. Although I may not be the most famous spokesmen in the local council of Independence, I would like to say that I believe the increased freedom that comes with these simple ones can be beneficial because we need to promote that sector, like so many others. But as I say, there are a number of effective results in lowering the product prices and implementation of the households. This earlier year's report by the Contestant Commission discusses the question of the fruitage requirement of the owners of small sales. It is very interesting to read that when the average interest of owners at a small sales store in our neighboring countries is between 81⁄21%, it is in Iceland between 301⁄240% and 303/45%, it is very clear. I feel that we cannot, in the discussion of the interest of people's homes and interests, we can keep that in mind when we are going to set up our agriculture as some opponent in the discussion of customs and plans for more important things. Let us not forget, too, that in many ways good changes can be achieved for the benefit of all. I think and have long spoken of the time that it is long ago that we reevaluate agricultural policy and how we apply it, especially with whom we guarantee wholesome products and human health. I'm not going any further in this discussion. But this bill can also be criticized, and we will be under the budget for the next few weeks to listen to tips and criticism. I don't like it, and I have strong opinions about it. Although I am a member of a larger administrative committee, I still have some opinions about some of the factors involved. As mentioned in this discussion, I think there's gonna be quite a bit of country management when they meet us, talking about road issues. The fact is that during the first rains of this fall, school cars were stuck in rural areas because of lack of weight maintenance. Schoolchildren are shaking on hollow roads. There is no more material in the roads to restrain them. This is all a task that we need to put on even stronger lights and work hard to solve. That's not how I'm criticizing the highest. Minister of the Interior or the Road Building. It has simply been played out by the best convention each time, but it is indeed a project and is one of the things we can definitely give ourselves to become a part of the criticism that will be given to an existing financial bill. But there has been another group of lawsuits here, and my name has been linked to him, i.e. Communications. For the first of a very long period of time, the possibility of an ongoing budget year was to put money to rest on telecommunications, mainly to finance the programmes published in the World Congress's resolutions on communication plans, the so - called ring - ups that included. Made it this summer. The financial bill continues to ensure the improvement of communications funds, and although it does not increase since the General Assembly last year, I hope that in this fall the plans for the current government or suggestions for a hearing program that includes the effort we have been waiting for a long time to look at the light, which aims to improve the provision of communication conditions for people. There are many amazing things to do in that regard, especially with energy companies, and just to give a Senate idea what we're talking about at the end of my talk, I'd like to mention an offer on a project aimed at calling the West. By looking for cooperation with the Energy Company of the West, the final work contract for that work became only 30% of the original price at the expense strategy where men at last have the right to work together in building wood.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. We do not always agree on agricultural matters, but we agree more often than many think. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with the long - term goal of reducing tolls and removing them from part of agrienvironmental products, of course, I'm talking about agricultural products produced in Iceland. I realize we're bringing in rice and soy and all kinds of agricultural products toll free of charge, but we're going to work on the agricultural products that compete with domestic production. As has been the subject of a talk. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, it's really--now I can't remember what he said that suddenly I thought was so intelligent, but the question is, shouldn't we begin to take tolls like cheese that are not produced here and agricultural products, do this in some step in longer, and trust that the results will be similar to those of vegetables and clima? That article has done quite well. Icelandic consumers prefer Icelandic tomatoes rather than imported, even if they are more expensive, and they should be able to trust that the quality of consumers will continue to choose Icelandic production, but they still have the potential for imported foods. Actually, that competition will always have a good effect. I'd like to know what it is. A senator thinks of a plan like this, or doesn't he sees it just as if we're going to drop over our heads tolls on imported agricultural products?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u70	A respectable president. I thank you for this question, very objective and clear. I'd like to say, in the beginning, that there's nothing easy to deal with this party. This may be a hallmark of agricultural practices, considering the consistent attitude between countries in which citizens maintain their agriculture and want to defend it in all areas. What I was describing earlier in my talk was that we had tremendously liberality. But we have a few pack of livestock we've chosen to protect because they're created on land, they're important for our habitats, etc. I'd like to say, however, when people talk about the excellent results of the erosion of customs on vegetables, as follows: It's true that there's a big change, but it's forgotten very often during the discussion that as soon as this change was made, a great wave that encouraged the consumption of vegetables began. This is a major part of the explanation why we have achieved building up the climatic centres and promoting this production at the time since, simply because the demand grew. It is often forgotten during this discussion, in this nitria around success, or the expected results from the decomposition. But about cheese and such products, I'm still going to stick with that plan, because of it. A senator put it this way, that we do it in a mutual international deal, that we drop customs, e.g. of cheese, against getting market access to other countries for our products that we produce. I completely agree with the senator that we should have a vision of these matters. Evolution has all been this way. We won't turn her around. There is no point in saying that farmers or others cling to a system and want no change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u71	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. You're right. A senator noted that, of course, there were additional payments for this production, on a paprika, on grapples, and tomatoes in its time, but the price dropped. I remember this time; I barely bought a paprika because the weight price was like gold. The price decreased, and this resulted in a marked increase in consumption. And I doubt that a small nation like Iceland can have some kind of strength in treaties when we negotiate with other nations on a tax-free export. What I wanted to ask in a second answer is the fiber - optics thing. A senator knows well. I cannot quickly see that the next year's funds are placed on the budget for a nation's nation's light - headed cables. I think we agree, and I'll bet all local Parliaments, that there's one of the greatest settlements and something we can't wait much longer. It's starting to have an effect here and now on farms, employment opportunities, studies, and so on. I don't know if I've misunderstood something, but if there's no special funding on this project, don't you think that's disappointing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u72	A respectable president. There's a big misunderstanding. A senator that Iceland doesn't have the power in treaties on customs. What I was referring to is simply mutual business agreements. Then we will have that authority, just like the developer, it's just a nation against a nation or nation against a federal alliance, and the discussion will simply focus on a transition to market and mutual access. However, this has been the most long term reference to contracting with the European Union, where the European Union has wanted to negotiate a kilo to a kilogram which is an unfair requirement. Rather, we should talk about relative access, for a 300 thousand people who import 1 kg of a particular agricultural product have a natural strength far less if they receive only 1 kg instead of 500 million people. With the senator's question about fiber optics, I'm going to say first, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What you draw into that legal bill. In fact, there are certain reforms based on the old council communication program. An proposal for interpretation of communications has simply not come into the council, so the project has not really been resolved, and 300 million are included in the methodology. As described in a photorelated report of Iceland, there are a lot of money and money that they will be able to pull the wagon at the beginning of this disaster. I completely agree with the senator that we can't wait to decide, and we have to have a vision of that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u73	Mr. President. In part, what I was going to ask about the optics, light in the purple, as was called here, is not about to make a difference - we're both sitting on the budget, me and that. A senator who held a talk here and came to see that this will be one of the things that we will hear there and will likely lead to great disappointment. Because the roads were introduced, because these are often in the hands, road reforms, telecommunications, tourism, busulfan, and all the names mentioned earlier that students do not come to their home because they cannot learn at home because they are so poor at home. In this context, I would like to continue talking about the flights and airports and ask why. A senator whether it is enough or he will put the change in the budget to increase the amount of money needed to reduce the internal flight to users. A report was also made, as we know, and members of Congress suggested an attempt to get the plane down. We are stuck with the maintenance of a road that is totally unacceptable, and I believe it and trust that it will. A senator will help us to change that. I was north of Auronesk during the days, and there was almost impregnable, nothing near, there was impossible on chapters, and not an acceptable situation as we know. So I ask if because there is a very dangerous situation, I would suggest a change in this now to a discussion on the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u74	A respectable president. I'm concerned with the senator, and I agree with her that there will surely be many societies making comments to the budget committee on the communication and transportation bill. Whether communities will be disappointed with the budget mentioned, I'm not going to say anything. I think it's important, though, that this fall will give us some insight into how we are going to work on these matters. I agree with the senator that we cannot wait much longer to make that vision, so I will work. I know that there is a wide and solid agreement to work in that direction. I'm not ready to say exactly here and now that I will make this suggestion or the other suggestion to put money on the domestic flight to pay it down. I don't think it's time simply at this point to speak directly of such suggestions. I'd like to remind you that last year's panel initiative in discussing the budget bill provided a new proposal for the Commission to rebuild airports. The need for a specific report on how that proposal has been provoked has been shown by the legal committee. Hv. A senator named the fine company of Arneshrepp. We know that there have been marvelous improvements, broken - down at the airport there, likely the most official projection in Aarnesfjords for decades that were well over the summer. However, we share a complete vision of rural transport and can hold both long and short talks that do not distinguish us from one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That was also one of the things that had come in here, i.e. The airport at Gugri. Like what? A senator may have noticed some 500 million. K. which was designed for the work taken out of the budget bill we now discuss. That is why it is very important in my opinion that a financial committee calls for it right away at work because of the highest level of work. The minister of finance did not answer, even though I asked about it in my speech, whether these projects would be carried out on the autumn days, or if some of the money would be guaranteed. That's very special, if 500 million have been approved. K. and for some reason it has not been an opportunity to get into that fight, that it will just not be done because money will not be put into it. I know they've been heard from Húsavík, and I don't like it if it's not to be followed. So I trust it as a dog. A senator said, we agree on a number of things that lie on these issues - I see why. The chairman of the budget is here - and that after this it will be called, and I ask him to do so, that we may get a position at this first. Then I just wanted to ask how the senator feels about his high school expenses because we are in the areas where these varied resources are set up. The value of high school is now being reduced to about a billion on top of what was used to be done. Our opportunities have been cut down, and we've had to fight for all stations. Counts 'em out. A senator who believes that this is acceptable and that all these small tracts continue to stay inside?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u76	Mr. President. At the end of the talk, then. I think that this is in my mind some of the most remarkable advances that have taken place in high school in the country or for the scattered settlements in recent years. We have made it evident in a greater proportion of the budgetary committees, and we are able to make up for the responsibilities of higher schools who have taken part in running such distribution centers. I think I can well claim right now that we will simply listen to the explanation and logic of the Ministry of Education on a financial committee for what it goes on to mention about a contribution to high school. I don't think it's time for me to make some big judgment as to whether this reduction is so impossible that it should be protested at 1st. ... abundant. For this, I simply lack the basis for standing on hand to declare it. However, the distribution and the affairs of high school in the country really apply to all of us, and we have had so many agreements in this chamber that there are some basic factors in the community and the country that need to be settled. High schools, telecommunications, transportation, house - to - house heating, and such factors are based. Based on this, it's not a difficult thing to do. It's about creating the people of the country wherever they choose to live, the freedom to choose it, and the second instead that we're letting these fundamental factors work. We agree to hold them to work for everyone wherever they live.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u77	A respectable president. First, I'd like to mention that I thought it was a strange tone of speech. paritaprevir Guðlaugur's Þór, the god of Þórðarson. It was as if some adjustment was needed to improve the production of the budget. I think it's a rather long time to avoid doing that because it's very simple to make a decision about opening raw data. We've done so at the Ministry of Economics, that was done in the past government, opened up raw materials, and worked with them so that they could take a bill or a financial bill, or anything else, and work with it more clearly than here. The example is there, however, that the way we began in the Ministry of finance to increase and improve access to the government's financial information was stopped by the government. It's just that way. It's just apathy and nothing else. There's no place to hide behind it. But to matter. I was pretty excited to see this bill when it got to the top. The prime minister declared it a welfare law, and in a report on the island, he announced the most generous contributions than we have ever seen in Iceland, to be directly quoted in his Word, by permission of the president. That's why I was very excited, but when we look at the bill, we can see that it's a complete misdemeanor. Nowhere does it happen that these are the best welfare laws of all time or what he says about it in his grand promises. There's nowhere to go. For example, when we just look at health issues, because I don't have a lot of time, I thought we'd all agree that there'd have to be a donation, and that's a lot of cheer, but what do men do in this bill? Here they show their policy in this regard. What do we have here? We have almost 1,2 billion who are on the rise to expert doctors, and then we have an incision at Land Hospital in real value, a cutoff of 90 million. K. Are these the welfare laws? Where are the candidates in this discussion? There's been a cutting down at the Land Hospital, and no candidate will come up here and talk for this financial bill. They don't go into it because they're such perverts. I have to say exactly as it is, a respectable president, that calling this welfare law is a counterargument when the text tells us quite frankly about the Land Hospital that it is actually lowering by 90 million as well as the conclusion of a crime has not been taken into account, it was stated this morning. And how will they compensate for it? Should he take the raises in his account? A respectable president. This cannot be called a welfare law. Would you please begin to clear up and state that the public health system is not in the interests of this government? That's what this budget bill shows in black and white. Another thing I have to tell you is that this welfare law cannot be called when we know that everything in this country and people here, whole groups of older citizens, have a greeting about how many can get a medication to prevent premature blindness. That's the fact of the Icelandic system today. And there's no one who can tell me that if you put up a welfare law, there would be no increase in these drugs. It's only a slight gain, but there's real value here. Is it a welfare law? We in the United States will criticize this bill very strongly, and especially its health and welfare parts, and will do so many comments. Social and housing minister calls this government the home administration, but what does it do on this bill? It reduces interest rates of 1.5 billion, lowering the birthworm by 221 million, and child reforms are being replaced. There are cold greetings to the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u78	Mr. President. Today, general members of Congress are now quite limited in their discussions. We have five minutes to discuss this huge case, but I'm gonna do my best and stick to the big picture. It is most enjoyable to know that this bill, such as the bills in recent years, confirms that recovery continues in Icelandic economics, a steady recovery that has actually been since the economy returned at the end of 2010. V.E.G. The minister of finance has just recently, so I have noted, a number of times, referred to this as becoming the longest continuous economic growth in the nation's history and, of course, a projection of the rest. It could well be that, if possible, we would be experiencing one of the most ongoing economic growths in the history of the nation. It's a much more complex approach than the top one. The prime minister has embarrassed himself, and many have done so in this day's conversation, but he repeatedly tried in his policy discourse to bring it into the nation that in the past two years all the improvement was due to his or her government. For example, on the debate, with the permission of the president, he said: There have been rare cases of economic recovery in countries such as Iceland in the past two years. And later he said, which was also wrong: ▪ Economicly, Iceland has grown faster since 2013. - 2013. The reality is that Iceland was much more distinct in 2011-2013 when extreme difficulties were still in Europe, some of which have not yet been completed. In those years, economic growth in Iceland was one of the greatest in OECDs, and it was the highest or second most in Europe, certainly because Europe was then in zero or minus, which, of course, was not good. Thus, economic growth was both 2011 and 2013 higher than it was during the first year of this government, i.e. last year. At that time, economic growth was lower than both 2011 and 2013. Of course it does judge itself. One can ask, first of all, the President: Does the prime minister of the United States not know better? Do we sit with a prime minister who is so terribly ill that he puts it on paper in his policy discourse? Second, it's the highest. Will the prime minister simply be so presumptuous? Is he trying to get someone to believe that this is really the way it is? Or third, and that's the explanation I most agree with: Prime Minister's just this small.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u79	Is that it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u80	- Small.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u81	Small?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u82	He can never allow anyone to do something intelligent except himself. The improvement in the wealth of the Kingdom is due to several combined factors. In fact, there are two things that he explains mainly, that from 2009 up to and including 2013, there were targeted measures to strengthen the country's income base while spending was reduced as much as possible. This, in turn, leads to the spontaneous return of economic recovery from year to year in the financial budget. There were so-called multiples, i.e. The taxes yield more without any increase in one tax per cent. These two things, the action to get things together with income and save all last term, and then the fact that when the economy takes over, the economy automatically returns the increase in income in the state funds, has led to the fact that the present government has it very comfortable, it doesn't have much to do. The best thing would have been if she hadn't done anything because it would be even better because the government, despite everything, has released considerable revenues that we might be using these losses to either do better in certain areas or simply pay more quickly off debts. However, the government chose a different route. This is possible because space is created by this economic benefit, but the weaknesses immediately begin to develop because the state will then be again dependent on the filancy that disappears as dew before the sun if the economy is turned around. These include economists on the bill today. It's also building weaknesses in the worsening survival of rural society. We must look at the public as a whole, not just the state. Most of the largest rural communities lived in an exacerbation from year to year. It's just too little investments. The government's investments over 1.2% of the budget time is a disaster, it tells us that no local hospital will be built, there will be no roads, and of course it will not work. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, though there is much to rejoice about the general situation, and we rejoice that recovery will continue, things also cause a deep disappointment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u83	Mr. President. I'm going up here to get involved in a little bit of the discussion about what happened and why are we growing up again. I agree with those who say that it is not all the work of this government, nor is it all the work of the former government in my mind. Let us not forget that there was a tremendous loss of experience here, a dollar fell, and this was a key factor in improving the nation's competitiveness, providing the economy with conditions for growing, and was one of the only requirements for the tourism to take on as much of what we have seen, one of the key premises. State debt status was also a key factor in the crisis. Low debt rates enabled us to cope with the crisis, finance the sliding business, and receive assistance in the pursuit of foreign loans. The penalty could also be called a basic, successful outcome in the Icesave case. However, the focus of the first government is not a criticism, we criticized that policy, the government for overcompensing the fiscal side, and thus opportunities to save jobs were offered, that recovery might have been even faster, and that we discussed the entire last term. Then, when it comes to this government, I have to make some major changes that have taken place. For example, I disagree completely, for we have acted in a wrong way by relieved of the burdens of home and employment. I completely disagree with that, and then I must also point out that we raised the bank tax to less than 40 billion, which is less than 40 billion. The very essence of the leftover here is lost. This was raised by the bank tax, but only about half of that amount has gone into the debt. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, we have benefited from doing so. Thus, the overall impact of the tax efforts is positive, despite the fact that we have made room for home and employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u84	Mr. President. I wasn't doing anything to the current government, even though I went over it like I did. I've had my talk before, including. in the discussion of a plan on exploitation of a currency school, it specifically stated that all governments that have in the process can, in my opinion, be well - respected for pleasure. It is upbuilding to discuss matters on these terms, as it were. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Steingrímsson pointed out today, it would be much more fun to exchange words when people say things that they can't do and let people know the truth. On the other hand, like many other speakers, I allowed myself to draw attention to the small prime minister who has become a bit of a talk here today, trying to earn everything and decorate himself - because I am in such a good mood, Mr. President - loaned feathers. I'm not going to use my usual approach to that metaphor today. It may also irritate you. The chairman of the budget board, which I hear is having trouble today. [[To the point: Absolutely.]] You're absolutely right by the Topv. Of course, the minister of finance, let us always discuss this humbly, that those who first and foremost made the sacrifices to get Iceland out of the collapse were the common people, including the people. Through a lack of power through the collapse of the fallen craze. That's right. We have no honor for that, but the government has evolved like this, people are making the shoes because it's the results we can be proud of, even on a global scale, if I understood the top. Prime Minister correctly. That's right, but he doesn't have one worldwide record that Iceland has probably turned over a more frightening position in government cases in less time and in a more effective way than any other country that's been in trouble and less. [["Icezave."]] This is reality, and there is nothing new about it. As early as 2012 and 2013, Iceland's efforts were becoming increasingly publicized. Yes, our priorities were critical, and it was good to have criticism during the last terms, to the extent that it was perfunctory. For one thing, it was criticized, yes, that we put too much emphasis on the income side, and it would choke the economy. [[The president calls.]] Where, though, did the result come from? Now we have the facts on that matter, the mixture that we found convenient, and it immediately began fine economic growth in 2011.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u85	A respectable president. I'm gonna come back up here to discuss two things, one with the currency. It is remarkable to see the success that we have achieved in recent years when we have handled the economy, especially because of the way we have improved by working with a much lower severity. Especially this was true of us. And yes, it is true that it was at the expense of the lives of the public, and it made it very difficult for many companies, but we are back on our feet, and we have saved an amazing number of jobs by having our own currency. More may be considered about the economic benefits and the comparison with other countries that do not have the option of going along or getting adjustments in business practices in the same way as we do. This has caused enormous problems for many countries who work with a common currency in economic areas that are developing in different ways. Then, when you look ahead, what we can do to reduce the likelihood that we will go through such swings. I'd like to mention that, along with public funds that we have to agree with at this council, I think it's very important, it needs to change the workforce frame. It is hoped that by looking at it, many will do well to see it. 32 last year, the budget was held in which we see how the pay cost of a production unit has developed in Iceland compared with many other countries. This trend will lead to nothing other than inflation and thus inflation. If the offer on a dollar becomes more than we produce in the country, nothing more will happen than a dollar will fall. [[The president calls.]] These two laws on public finances and the change in the workforce are in my opinion that the basis for our building for further stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u86	Mr. President. I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance that it calls for a good discussion here, and hopefully we'll have an opportunity to do so in the next few days, perhaps. When he commends another prime that is in the law, to discuss the prospect forward; for there the anxiety begins to seek a man. Clearly, there is a certain imbalance, or at least we see evidence that there may be evidence of building up. In my opinion, in this case, it's not only against collective contracts, there's something else that's gonna happen. We see that the product exchange equation is approaching zero, and we are now months away importing more goods than we make ourselves. The balance is good because of the huge revenues of tourism and the quality of the service. It's going to be too much for economic growth to continue by personal consumption, it's never been successful in the long run. These are the factors that we need to be very careful not to fall into the pits that were in the years before a crash, looking for some positive explanation that the gauges have hit red. When Iceland's entire business house was 2,925 percent of the gross domestic product of 2005/200, and we were trying to point out that this was not a good idea, a new concept was created to calm men. A benign business hall, they said, a benign business hall. He was quite benign, so let's take these gauge seriously and look at them very carefully. I also mentioned the financial status of my rural society. Of course, we who watch the welfare system in Iceland as a single entity of the public must be aware that there is not enough government to get better if our communities are experiencing more trouble at the same time. The interest needs to be self-sustained, it's a highly damaged measuring device, as we know well, and it needs a lot to tell the whole story. [[The president calls.]] We must never believe in any percentage that may be too much for economic growth in personal consumption and debt again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u87	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin by celebrating that we're here dealing with the budgets that supply the rest, reminding us of the excellent regulations being performed in the most difficult operations of the last government, that it would be important for us to change our interest in welfare. It means that reaching down the angle of a government fund is important in order to have some rest in order to pay off debt so as to reduce interest costs. The expenses are very burdensome, now nearly 80 billion, and they are one of the largest taxpayers in the state's budget. Then a new government took over, and she was not interested in changing interest in welfare. She chose to favor them more materially at their expense. Then came the highest. The prime minister here allowed himself to speak in reverse about the bill that is now being discussed as a welfare law. Well, that's very rude, to say the least. I thought it normal for us to have a special discussion, since he especially discussed the welfare emphasis on this bill. Social security is now increasing according to law, but the duration does not exist on May 1, 2015, as in the collective agreements, but from January 1, 2016. And the other bill's missing. It is not stated how to increase your social security, so we don't know what benefits are rising. All persons who rely on social security for survival know that it is important that the benefits are increased as a result of a reduction in the effectiveness of other revenues. It's a complicated discussion we'll take when that bill comes out, but we'll see exactly how this affects and how many people. Then we come to the growth reforms that reduces about 1.5 billion. We come to the child reforms that are up to 3% while the prowess of the bill are 4.5%. They don't keep up with prices. Then we reached the birth canal, and it will be unchanged from 2014 onward, 370 yous. K. the maximum of one month. It is saving on the family of the baby family of this country, if it had not been cut off on the 2008 ore, to a maximum of 845 you have. K. per month. We're in the United States to make 500 of you. K. A roof for starting with a month, since these are families with a heavy staging burden, people getting on their feet, and we need to take this into account. Children's families, who are putting roofs over their heads and have children, are left in this bill and made pay the bill for tax losses, tax reductions that will mean that we all get a tax reduction to 12 of you. K. every month while the 300-star people. K. every month you will receive 1 dose. K. In his pocket. This is the priority of budgetary funds at the highest level. Prime Minister allowed himself to call the welfare law. I have a suspicion that the highest. Prime Minister does not differentiate between real and personal sizes. I hope he understands the difference, but talking about the Landsspike getting 50 billion dollars now. suggests that he does not understand that there is no increase in funds to the hospital this year. Rather, it is about 90 million dollars in the hospital. K. While the pressure is actually increasing in the hospital, extra supplies are being added to the hospital. You can't believe it after the discussions we've had in this room. In this shameful brief discussion of this serious matter, I'm going to finish my words by saying: "This isn't the welfare law, it's the budget for an increase in the inequities of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] And against that, we equal men will fight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u88	Mr. President. We'll discuss the budget here for 2016. I'm not going to be the one who cries out for these financial laws. I feel they're continuing to be as right-handed as they used to be. It is not good for those less lenient in society, and it is not good for us citizens of the land. It is not the national drive of this blessed budget bill, but it is rather possible to say that it is the trade and holographic drive, moving on by bringing more to those who have it and reducing support to those less fortunate in society. The changes in the tax system aim to support those who are more fortunate and to reduce the support of those who are less fortunate. Children's benefits don't even hold on to prices. The elderly and the poor do not receive similar increases and the minimum paid in the labour market was negotiated. It is simply shameful, though, when a government fund produces so much waste that the hand of the elderly and the microchip is not more hand - to - handed. It has been discussed since the reign of this government. Finally, a small mouse is born that does not cry out for. No one takes into consideration what will be exactly how these things will benefit people. Of course, there are many young people who are facing great challenges in renting their feet and trying to find a place to live. I'd like to mention the country area because it may not have been much in the discussion about the need for housing, but there is a great need in the country. Happily, in many places, employment has been building up, and housing has been missing. There is nothing to be done on this bill to support the inhabitants of the country and rural communities where there is a great need to build a house to offer people who want to live in rural areas where professional life has been taking over. During discussions about the debate of the prime minister, why? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason so that energy prices in this country were completely leveled. I thought it was a problem then. A senator absorbs a large amount. It's a long way off with it being done. On the basis of the budget bill, at least 400 million are needed to level the distribution of electricity and transport for house - to - house heating costs with no fossil services. So I think men should do more than take less into account in discussions about these great national interests. Speaking of national interests, there are no financial resources to trigger this massive fiber - opticization, which has been reported to have at least 51.7 billion. That's only the same amount of money that went into the budget last year, i.e. 300 million this year. Even if this is a step in the right direction, they will do enough. The amount of money for transportation, road management, is a disgrace to the government. I am not surprised that the people of the country are not established in this chamber, the more part of it. They must wear a head bag as they watch how money is provided for transportation in this financial bill. There's nothing new about it. Some 800 million are going to a snowstorm that would have had to be even more. In maintenance of the road, which is certainly a great need, whether by road, by road, or by road in general, I don't talk about the ways that are still just dirt roads, there's nothing to lay. Despite the fact that the land is filled with tourists and people talk about it at times that they should try to distribute these tourists far and wide throughout the country. How should these tourists get around the country when transportation is completely lost? It's a disgrace. I haven't said my last words about this financial bill that I think is something I don't have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u89	Mr. President. Anticipating earlier today, when it's the highest. I was talking about a financial and economic minister who was talking about social security and benefits. It is proper to say, you often forget to use words in the heat of the game, that of course the older citizens of this country do not accept compensation. They're taking out their pension they've earned over the years - so they're told. A respectable president. There were a lot of things I couldn't come in earlier and can't come in in in in these minutes. I'd like to come into the tourism service for a minute. Yesterday's headline of the Newsletter says, with the permission of presidents: The service loses a billion on latency. Then, it is not the government's fault but that of someone else. I believe it's the government's job to teach us what the situation is in the streets of tourism. As we know, there is an additional charge that is being received because the minister of the seminary did not see reason to place money on it. First, it presented a ruined bill, and then she could not see a reason for putting that money into it. Now a considerable amount of money is available in the bank account, which should be due to the fact that tourism is so suspended on projects. Is that not also because decisions are made late, and as a result, people have not been able to start up? A respectable president. The bill assumes that 4.5% inflation is inflation, and it is expected that only less than 3.8% of the prices will be updated - and it is important to keep this in mind - that institutions will not fully compensate for their inflation. Of course, that means cutting the difference. It's worth keeping this in mind, a respectable president. Then it's the taxes, how much they cost us. They are up to 7 billion next year; 17 billion in the next two years. In other words, paying taxes on the wealth of the state is to be reduced by 25 billion dollars. in the next four years. Of course, we need to ask the government how she will face the loss of income. It didn't show up at the top. Minister, unless he assumes to reduce tolls and all, and the private consumption will be so that it will compensate for this massive loss of income. A respectable president. There are a lot of things we need to go through well. On page 18. One factor is the fact that the primary costs are very low, almost to the critical limits. Of course, that makes it difficult for a trust fund. If they're going down this thing, over a hundred and twenty-two percent, then the government fund is basically pulling out of all common business. It may only be the General and the Council for the rest of their lives. It can't be the goal of the government to do that, except what? Is it the right course for the combination to be scarce? Perhaps this will be answered at a later time. At least this seems to me to be what the pictures show in the publication direction and outlook. I think we need to go over it really well. Regular spending is increasing. That's one of the things I've criticized considerably. I feel like there's a lot in there that shouldn't be irregular, we know pretty much who they are. At least there is very little that needs to be irregular and that should be possible in the conventional way. The chairman of the legal committee often speaks of financial discipline, and this is just one factor that increases discipline if we draw it directly into the bill but do not have it in the past regarding irregular expenses. We've been through a lot here today. I think that in the answers and other matters that I have participated in, and in the short speeches that have been delivered, there is clearly much that we need to consider better. Of course, there are positive signs. There are also positive things in this bill, but there are others who are totally unacceptable, including what I've been onto and especially interested in older citizens, poor older ones, and less fortunate ones, the tax route that goes on, and the conditions in the roads that I'm very interested in, and I'm very worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u90	V.E.G. President. I am very pleased with the budget bill presented here. There are a number of factors involved that would be involved in making changes in the tax system, which include simplicity and will result in increased efficiency, and the removal of customs announced in the bill. This will take place at this time of the year and then come to completion for a year. But that's not what I'm going to use my short time in here, but I'm going to talk about economy. Practicality has been discussed in length and breadth during this ideal period. I sat in the economy of the government, which has produced a variety of changes, but that is one thing we will see in the future that will be our main concern in future economic management, that is to make better use of the technology available, and the fact that Iceland is an extremely e - mailable nation. We can do much better to make practical application of these advantages and the facts for our benefit. We can put more energy into promoting administrative activities in this respect so that the access of all Icelanders to obtain services, to collect data and apply for various applications has been largely transferred to the Internet. That is why it is proper to call attention to text on page 18. 16 In the small publication that follows the financial bill, policy, and prospects that discuss this point, public shopping, and electronic administration. The Ministry of Economics examined what could be done, and a group are working at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is taking up suggestions on how to proceed with this project. Based on the text that appears to us on the budget bill, we have reason to hope that this will be the future. It should be possible for e.g. In Denmark the government considers 40% of all the government's budget options to be a potential option. We all know how we have been able to deal with the majority of tax returns to electronic forms. It took time to make those changes, but I assure you, it has resulted in better tax divorces, simpler outposts, thereby saving us money and saving the inhabitants of this country a lot of resources. I assure you, none of us would want to go back to the time when we would hand in hand tax returns to paper in the tax office's mailbox. Of course, such a project may take a long time, and it may never be over, but with improved information technology and increased coordination between institutions and schemes in this regard, I believe that we can achieve a great deal of success and a greater profit for society. Mr. President. I thought it was proper to draw attention to this because I find this interesting in this way to discuss the matter in the financial bill. I have high hopes that in the years ahead, we will discuss this project further in this room because all of us have interests in that the funds we use to run here the systems necessary for the service, are spent in the most practical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u91	Mr. President. She is glad on the good day; in the night, it is grizzly; it is grizzly upon the cheek. The last thing I want to do is ruin my joy. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsleyddótttir here declared his financial bill. There are good things to say about it, and then I can believe it. A senator for the fact that it also brings me great things that do not make me happy. There's a lot more people here than I'm doing today. As mentioned earlier, thieves like me have limited my freedom of speech in this discussion, so I'm going to give myself the luxury of asking why. A senator only goes into one matter of concern. A senator is concerned that she is the chairman of the General Committee, which is the cause of refugees. Hv. In fact, one of the carriers of this committee has been extremely important and beneficial among the different councils. It's a group of paintings that we love, huh? A senator loves him, I see it because he cooperates with her. I love him, but I know from long experience that he is often unattainable outside the garden. When I read this financial bill and cross it, I immediately apply my angle to the fact that there's no place to run away about refugees'affairs, and it seems to be a very narrow cut all over the world. I'll eat two, for example. I couldn't find where to take money to survive the reception of the party crowd, at least Twenty-five come here next year on a date. I couldn't see where to take money to cost the reception center that has already taken place. The three other guys involved, I'd say, in any case, a considerable amount of money is missing to make it work. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is it not troubled by the future of this group of languages, as it seems to be drawn up in the budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is important that we pick this up immediately at 1st. ... abundant. You're right next door. A senator that it is necessary to review the budgets shown to us in the bill and to deal with refugees and refugees as well as with the reception centre. There is no way to conceal the policy of the government employed here, and it is also the opinion of the Senate that the NTSB should be established. That project will be completed. We know that well, me and him. A senator, that before the last budget was made, we had to work very hard on how we would be affected by the financial resources involved in the trust agreements. I suppose we'll use ourselves that way. Since the writing of the budget bill, a special Ministerial Committee has been established on matters of refugees that I expect will produce suggestions that we need to take sides with, including. It's about the budget bill. I'm as happy as I have my budget bill, I didn't say it was perfect. There is always some point that we need to review, and this certainly is one of them. I know that me and what. A senator here asking me, Össur Skarphéðinsson, will be very alert in matters of inmates and refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u93	Mr. President. For my part, this may have been the best speech I've had today. I've been listening to the whole discussion, and it's such a routine discussion, but it's unusual today. But I loved that answer. I believe this group of paintings is in some danger. How important it is that he cultivates solidarity! Such solidarity has been established by the Council of Congress, and it actually works out a miracle next to the degree of solidarity in the issues that are among the most difficult factors for today's political action. I like what you're doing. A senator makes it clear that despite his unquenchable joy over the bill, it is not entirely perfect. At least I agree with what. A senator, in this regard, is very imperfect. I'm not saying that to argue about this because of the exact nature of this party, I believe that man should share as little as possible. But I'd like to point this out, huh? A senator says it's necessary. You see, I think it's very unfortunate if all of a sudden you see, maybe in financial aid, how much this cow is. I could believe it. A senator for how much I expect him to be, but I'm not going to. I think maybe I'm wrong. I am sad, however, that in all five key elements that involve the approach of refugees and our ability to live up to one of the commitments that we have signed, nothing more than that, even though there would be no Searchers, I think it would be a huge failure for us to live up to this obligation. However, I am convinced of it as well as that. A senator at the highest. A government has a positive policy, and I welcome the formation of the Minister of Ministers. But we need to see a glimpse that the Minister's Committee offers suggestions that will also be funded by the Supreme Court. Minister of finance, or at least by his rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u94	V.E.G. President. That's right. The ultimate fact. The minister of finance is on the Board of Ministers exactly informs us that those making decisions on how much things are involved in these matters. That's the way it goes. You're right next door. A senator says that a cow is this year, and there's a cow we didn't foresee. The application of shelterers is far more than expected, and in August there was a large increase. This fall, we are seeing numbers that we did not expect, and it is clear that we need to respond. Of course, by August we had written the budget bill that we are discussing today, so in the budget, it will become known to my people that are particularly concerned with the matters of trustrs. There is another matter regarding the use of the money involved. I think there's a need to see how this group of directors is. We have the affairs of hosting people and then of two conferences to take refuge. Well, as far as I've studied, it's not like that anywhere else in the North. It may well be in some cases, but it is not to be rendered a dual process, for example, that we are designing a system for researching the background and gathering information in two places. That's not a good use of tax money, and that's not what we're supposed to do. I really hope that this whole system together will be more specific so that we can get as much of the money we put into our litigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u95	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make a very good use of the five minutes that we, general members of Congress are discussing the budget. First, I'd like to say that it's very enjoyable and positive what the budget shows about the results and activities of the state funds. Although we understand how to argue with money, since collapse we have succeeded, both in the last government and in the present, to deal with the great problems then created in the financial affairs of the State. That's why I feel very happy when I get to the top. The prime minister, like anything positive that has happened only since April 2013, speaks in his policy discourse, when he was elected as prime minister. That's not the case, let's keep that in mind. But I'm also going to say that in many ways the situation here is being handled well, but there is a difference in the budget. I don't think it's acceptable, and I haven't received an adequate explanation by the government on why elderly and desperate people do not get ups in line with increasing general labour markets from May 1 up to January 1. I'm not gonna ask the highest. Secretary of finance to do so now because it has been discussed today. I am glad, however, that there is money to build a social home. I would have liked to discuss it better, but I just want to say one thing: I hope that there will be no larger apartments but small apartments, missing apartments, less construction costs, and, as a result, less rent expenses or less payment to buy. Then I'm going to go to that in the last three minutes that I have in the talk chair to cover the transport budget, as I have often done. There I would like to have a place to speak at the highest. Secretary of finance and hearing his explanation if he did so in a brief answer. It still seems to me that there's a plan that's almost just to keep things going. There's a little something new, if anything. Various projects are being financed, and they are not to be thanked because it is the obligation of the government to deal with agreements made by the last government and all the traveling work that then began in the process that is now being carried out. Among other things, it is dedicated to the southern part of the West, which was adopted on a transport program that reminds me of 2010 and was offered out in 2012. The report then discusses construction at the North Ground tunnel, but it is not so that for the government's two - year anniversary, one new feature cannot be pointed out, except for the details of the roads. Another is not new, otherwise it is merely a process to enforce and approve last government and according to the events of every category at the General Assembly, which may have been present at times or opposed. But I would like to ask, "Why is this done? " Is it a way by the government to strike the possibility of assaulting this role of government funds? It's not possible for me to believe that because many local sites are still in the country to this day, transport is not readily available, as is required in 2015. It's not working. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Why is there no more money in that matter than is true? I read it about 800 million. K. a donation is used to cover increased winter maintenance costs, including with climate change, increased demand, and increased traffic There are things that must grow like other things. There's a fund set up here for additional expenses at the Bakki in Húsavík. Is this being done by other means of transportation? It wasn't the meaning of the last government. That is how it can be counted for a long time. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget to one. This will discuss construction at the Northground tunnel, and in a few days, 15 days, I think, will finally be broken through with the North Earth tunnel. This article discusses the need for 3 of you. A million. K. Next year and after 2017, there will be 1,500 million left. K. It is now a big debate around the East whether it can be rushed by a year or a half, so that the tunnel can be taken to use in the autumn of 2016 before winter begins and there is no need to hatch the Cross Passes. I'll do that at the highest. The secretary of finance to allow the Road Building, if possible, to speed up this project so that the tunnel can be used earlier? Then I'd also like to ask, "Why are we cut down 500 million? " K. the construction of an airport in the area of the country installed by the 3rd Environment. About legitimate financial laws? [[The president calls.]] Why is it cut off now? Shouldn't more be done at airports that have been financing for a long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u96	Mr. President. First about the North Ground tunnel, I think it must be considered to make better use of the tools that are present by keeping the project going instead of stopping it, moving the device away, and then returning next year. I believe that could lead to saving and increasing the national economic efficiency of the project. This would lead to an earlier opening of the tunnel, which I feel is for me to consider. Then I'm going to answer regarding transportation in general and hope that I can do so in a short answer. First, we need to set goals for the development of the cost. In other words, the European Commission's implementation is a result of the policy reflected in the bill on the development of the budgets. We're thinking of this so that the actual growth of the initials will be moderate next year, an average of 1.3% per year, with about 5% cumulative over the period to 2019. Once we have set this goal for the development of the primary budget, the next task is to divide the available budget. The situation in the country's investment is changing for the better, so it does not require the same initiative in public investments as it may have been a few years ago. In effect, this financial bill reveals a set of priorities that is the result of the way we want to develop the spending side. It is more important to the welfare of the environment than to transport. I can say with what. A senator would love to see more done in the construction field. It examines basic questions, such as these: When the North Land March project is completed, should we immediately go to the next tunnel, or should we use perhaps one year in the meantime to sweep up all kinds of maintenance projects and other smaller projects that have been delayed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u97	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you to the highest. Secretary of the budget is eager to know the answers to the idea of hurrying it down by one winter to open up a Norman tunnel. I'm so happy for that. True, it is not simply a matter of making better use of the equipment at the site and all, it is, in fact, a matter of whether the traffic flow from Vega, from the state fund, would only be increased to the contractor, perhaps. agree with the contractor that payment would only come later for some of the items. It is an art to make a decision so that the tunnel can be taken into use in the autumn of 2016 before winter begins. It would be a great improvement to get rid of the hard threshold that the Oddds Pass is wintering, where workers from the Far East have been trapped on Christmas Eve and could not reach their home until Christmas morning. It would be a great improvement. I'm delighted to see that my five-minute discussion of budgets has already yielded considerable success. In general, the issue of transport is the highest. In itself, the minister of finance stated the plan of public investments, absolutely correct. We need to weigh. Nor should it be too much. Bear in mind that the Kingdom, which has been spoken of often, has to be slightly reduced during periods of heavy thawing and added during times of crisis. We did so in the last government where Iceland's record was struck year after year in transport projects. But there are some places where they just can't wait. They are asking for construction in 2015-2020, which was taken for granted in other parts of the country, 1970 ◯1980. That is what we need to examine. We need to set priorities. I'm not going to talk about how happy I am with the steps that are being taken in terms of the Land Hospital, I believe one of the most urgent projects in public projects to go about building a new hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u98	Mr. President. I had understood this so that the project would be stopped at the North Sea tunnel without guaranteeing continued funds for the contractors. That's why I put it this way. I've had some contact with the Minister of the Interior because of this case and I want to do what we can to facilitate the mission. After an incident, the assembly may be tested for its arrival. Let's see. This is an important discussion of how we approach the project. This connects with this, when we are discussing a special Senate document on a lengthy budget as well as on the official financial bill, whether or not we can resolve a discussion first on each budget for the next few years and then review on how we are going to prioritize the budget we've decided. If so, we would be dealing with priorities. If the other was done first, we would focus on priorities. It is all too common to speak of unique tasks that people want to see to be realized without any explanation of whether they want to rise or maintain their spending level. This often makes me feel that men are missing out on big opinions that they have to take sides with if they are going to be responsible for a bill like the rest of them. This big project gives me a thought. For example, we watch for animal tunnels to come next. I believe this is an enormous project, and I want to see it become a reality as soon as possible. However, we must be able to take the basic discussion of whether we will be ahead of ourselves on very expensive hierarchies or whether we can take between ourselves for a year or maybe two in recesses and directly into other roadways, which are of great importance, such as during the course of time. A senator points out. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u99	V.E.G. President. I thank the secretary of finance for this answer and meditation. For one thing, I'd like to say I'm glad that the Minister of the Interior has talked to the secretary of the budget because of the hurrying of the Norwegian tunnel, and my name is both support and assistance to find a way for it to become. I know from an old age, when I was in the Department of Transport, that sometimes it is the art of the impossible to negotiate with things and bring them together to speed things up. I can also agree with the other one as the highest. Secretary of the budget will discuss, getting us together on the budget, etc., basic budgetors. I share those opinions completely with him. Then there is your priorities. I say for my part, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that I participated in the role of a supporter of the last government to cut very much into welfare matters, to the elderly, to the poor, and to the health of the elderly. I did not rejoice, I sometimes had bad taste in my mouth. But in spite of my interest in road reforms and public work, I want to keep what I said to them, and it was promised to raise funds for the elderly and the poor and the health - care systems. Things were to be improved in the health system when it turned out to be better, and that time is now. That's why I don't understand why the elderly and the poor don't get their benefits up as soon as people in the labour market from May 1st. instead of January 1st. Therefore, I also don't understand why things are not accessed by the health system, such as the support of eyeglasses and hearing aids for the elderly. Why is this not done? This is my vision, a respectable president, when we have framed the budget and have set priorities, even though I keep speaking about it, as I did at the end, that in many parts of the country, modern transportation is missing. [[The president calls.]] So we owe what others have received to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u100	President. I can't say that I'm pleased with the emphasis that is presented on the budget bill and that I would have liked to see them anything other than it was. Of course, I must be glad to hear what was said in the past, that reason seems to hover over lakes when it comes to completing the Arctic tunnel and thus even saving it when it is overall rather than allowing it to be unused or shifted. I'm glad that somewhere there's a sense of reason floating over lakes. Of course I'm also glad that the budget is now returned by the end. That's the second year in a row, isn't it? As has often been said in the discussion today, and I have to reiterate what others have said, the reversal that we now see in the economic affairs of the nation was not available on Lake Saturday, in the spring of 2013. It is the product of a work performed by the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government, and there was no entertainment here in this hall that supported the measures that were then being performed in the health system, cut down in education, cut down in public security, and everywhere where something could be cut down. It was not our pleasure. But why am I saying this again when people are so bored with being always quoting the past and blaming and thanking themselves? That's because I'm sitting at a Senate Hall looking under the nominees from the chairman of a legal committee who claims that it was as if we had been doing it for fun. I hate to take the lead in this. This is especially directed to the chairman of the budget board, and in the process I will be surprised that she does not participate in this discussion here and how much else a candidate is involved. There are many of us who wondered whether this bill is just the responsibility of the Independence Party and the forward party will have nothing to do with it. I remind you that during the four - year budget discussion that was presented in spring, the candidates also did not speak up. This must be very strange. So I'd like to talk about my health. I'm going to make it better tomorrow for a discussion with the health minister, a respectable president, but I don't see any better than it's going to be double the health system here. It is to be made in the shelter of the money and almost under the cover of the night. It must be discussed at the council if we really are going to do this. I needed a new lens, and I waited a year and a half. I paid within 50 of you. K. I could have gotten them for 330 you. After three weeks if I'd gone to a private company. It's a double system. People can choose a new lens, and it can pay for it, but those who need it are to receive good service in the public health system. Then I was going to come to the tax Catholic. I'll do it better later when those bills are put forward, but to say in the shortest case, I'm directly against the tax Catholic that is placed here. I don't like to cancel and reduce the pace change in the tax system. I'm literally against it. I don't care if it's been negotiated in collective agreements, but I'm against it because the stepwise shift increases the equilibrium effect of the income tax, which I think we should try to do. I'd also like to say in this moment that I'm still amazed, as I did in the budget talk last year, the little emphasis this government puts on reducing the insurance fee. I know there's some plan on it and applied it, but that plan is a small reduction, and I'm surprised because it's what's best for the small ones, to cut down the insurance bill. [[The president calls.]] Whether they own a business or not, this government is on the side of a huge car.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u101	Mr. President. It would hardly take them to come here to spend 5 minutes discussing the greatest and most important bill that will be submitted to this council winter. I can't help but agree with what. paritaprevir Sigrídídíu Ingga, the Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir, who earlier said that it was almost tasteless how short it was for members of Congress to discuss it. For the right and smooth losers like me, we are assigned this time, five minutes, to review the bill and we can't even go to the best of our best answers. Secretary of finance. All about it. This bill has been handled here today, which is a great idea to me about knowledge and schemes if it's about the budget bill. I'm not going to discuss the big drawings of it because of the time being spent here, but I'd like to discuss a series of lawsuits I made on the wrong side of today. Brá Konráðsdóttir Konsbydóttir and how to handle the affairs of refugees and those applying for international protection in Iceland. It's a group of paintings that have often been out of the park. Good health, I feel, in view of the last few weeks, is developing an understanding that Iceland must first do what it takes to live up to its moral demands, but second, to meet the commitments we have made. It is acting as a special member of Parliamentary, transnational committee, who is working to establish a new bill as a law on those who apply for international protection. The next miracle that we saw within this committee is a conflict that we assumed would be very difficult to unite in. That is why I feel that in the political world, it is important to maintain that position. When I read the budget, I get a little fin. I feel like the highest. The government does not fully understand how this group has changed, that the problem has become much bigger than before, and what problems the small county administration has become. First of all, I want to kill at the top. A government of good health put down a special Ministerial Committee and in the face of 17 you. Icelanders sign the challenge to raise the number at its highest level. The government had decided to accept as a defined cry - inspiring group, then most ministers declared that they claimed to promote this figure to an elevated; the highest. Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I can remember no better than to the highest. The minister of finance did the same. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance if he may have time to speak with me, my chief. President: Where in the bill are you going to take money from which team, to the host? Now these 50 are to be replaced by two years, that year, and the next year. Each one costs the first in 5 million. K. As shown in the bill. So it takes 125 billion. K. into it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where can I find this number? I couldn't find it, in fact, I didn't even find the word "civorgo" or "savortist" or, in spite of the fact that one of the main aspects of the Ministerial Committee was dealing with it. Second, the Red Cross has recently been established, has been established, has been established, has been signed. He was considered low, but its basis is that the cost is 170 billion. K. I can't find this key in the budget bill. There are three other people I'd like to mention. Ladies and gentlemen of foreigners, her tail is twice as long as when set up in early January. It's taken back 24 million. K. a temporary donation, set another 29 million. In other words, there is almost no increase. If we look at the National Institute of Foreign Affairs, we will find the same thing in our case. It has much bigger problems, often criticism, than it does in an admirable way. It's down by 24 billion. K. Hostagers, page 311, he's kind of afraid of me. That's 475 million. K. In that, 400 is already set aside for two contracts with Reykjavíkurburg and the town of Smokejanes, who are to care for a total of 140 refugees, but only this year they will be 300 and most likely more next year. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister. How will he react to the obvious, that there is a large hole that needs to be stopped? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u102	Mr. President. What is addressed to me mainly involves the affairs of foreigners who seek here and care for the Department of Internal Affairs, as are many of the charges under the Commission. Panicists and other issues of this relationship may also agree with the Ministry of Social Affairs, and I just have to refer to the budget bill. We must then be able to discuss these matters in the context of their movement, perhaps especially during the last few weeks. During the following weeks or months, our decisions are about how we will deal with the distress that has come up in Europe and has been discussed here. This needs to be addressed during conquistancy. We're not doing well enough, so I'll talk again about the judges' committees, shortening the waiting period for the decision there. There was a plan to shorten the time of my dear treatment. Our expectations have not worked, and as a result, the cost has been greater than expected. The council is waiting to go down to these unique teams and ministers who will be here to answer tomorrow for how they measure the situation in individual languages and how they feel it is right to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u103	Mr. President. The most important part in answering is the highest. One minister was that important decisions were to be made, the prospective member of the Minister's Committee, within this seminary, and at the expense that would come from them during the council treatment. V.E.G. The minister said that they had to be treated for Congress. I agree with him about that. I think it's important that this statement of his lies ahead, just as I felt it was extremely important to hear a statement. paritaprevir In the discussion earlier today, Brá of Konráðsdóttir, chairman of the General Commission. That doesn't change it to the highest. Minister, who knows this financial bill by heart and no one better than him in it, except possibly in the rush. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, a tongue wrapped in both teeth and heads to answer this question: Where to take money from which joints, e.g. Because of the receptionist centres and the number-of-the-arts? V.E.G. A minister referred to the Ministry of Health, one of which is one of the branches of the immigrant Council, which is arranged in a specific way. I wondered if it's the ultimate purpose. Governments taking the cost of hostilities from other teams that are related to humanitarian assistance, such as through emergency assistance. I hope that it will not be done, but I would like to say that when I was a minister of foreign affairs, I took them from there to keep the mark when there was no money. It was a bitter operation, but to resist our international commitments, I did so. The situation is just that, especially when the government has decided to make a minimum of 50, she declared that she was even going to take more people from this defined category, we must set up a special budget because these are such large amounts. [[The president calls.]] For the other thing, I bear a very nervous bow, how we're going to face this cow, not just this year, but the next.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u104	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a budget bill for 2016. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The government's happiness with that and the fact that we're returning a third-time budget that's pitchless, and we're back to sponsoring society in a number of ways, as we have seen in the discussion. I have to say, though, it's 1st. on the matter and, of course, the financial committee will be visited, and the person standing here with other members of the council will have more time and more to consider these matters. Many have talked about the fact here today that we should be giving up unscrupulous financial laws. It is, indeed, because all the governments that have been here since the economic collapse had taken place and attacked various programs. But is that a major reason why we are giving up unscrupulous financial laws today? If we compare ourselves with countries that faced situations similar to ours, that is especially so when we are in the position we are in. First, the fact that there were emergency laws in its time and the banking system was taken out, and the State failed to accept the debts established by private citizens. Of course, those who came to that, whether the government, the Navy, or the rest, who fought for their time in difficult circumstances, deserve honor for doing so. Second, during the last terms, private property was still tried, but it was successful to prevent it. At the same time as the countries we compare with in southern Europe were full of national uses, the Icelanders fought against it, both in the City of Congress, the public, the President came upon it and deserved credit, fought against national interest. Then, third, and the final objective of combating exclusive debt as nationalized by the swellingrs of fallen banks. Of course, the fact that we are now building up the air, and we have been able to take them out like this, as with the law of distress in our time, the act that is taking place there will be a huge trust in the State Fund, although numbers are not expected to be in the budget today. Above all, these factors are the factors that matter when it comes to a government fund in the tremendous position it is today. All of this we have been able to do for Iceland because we are a nation of our own, and, of course, should be delighted, and we can control our own matters and deal with our own matters. Then, of course, we have a lot of things here that need to be considered more closely at the work of the bill, and there have been a number of cases involved. Many things that have been here during this discussion are related to signing collective agreements, and others to the housing, tax reforms, and so on. Of course, this will continue to be considered in a financial committee. Many things have to do with the internal structure of society's health, education, etc. One thing that I personally feel very important, and I've said that and I want to see changes in the bill and in the general budget, is that I want to see much more emphasis on geographic matters in general, and that we put extra funds into settlements, whatever names they are called, education issues, transportation issues, and more. I don't have anything special there, but I think we need as a nation, and no matter where we stand, we're focusing much more on that group than we've done in the last few decades. It is practical to preserve the entire country, and it is our task to do so, whether we live in northern, Western, southern, or capital, because it is economicly practical. There will be income in the scattered areas of the country that benefit the entire nation, and it is of utmost importance that we build up extra injections in the scattered areas. I have sometimes taken one area as an example, south of the West. Not so many years ago, people thought that this area had little hope, but many resource uses are being developed today. Would she be building up and the currency companies there would be building up if we had weakened the community's infrastructure more than had already been done? [[The president calls.]] This applies to all around the country and to this, we need to cultivate greater harmony and stress on this. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to winning this case on a budget committee and when it comes to 2nd. I will give a long and good speech concerning this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u105	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister boasted about this as a huge welfare law. So I have to ask. A senator, since he is the first candidate and only one who has spoken here in this case today, only in this case because the financial bill is being announced a cut to the hospital. When we read the text about the Land Hospital, it is a quarter increase, but this is not really an increase because it is expected to improve its prices and pay raise and then into 90 million. K. which appear to be off to the Land Hospital this morning stated that there was no anticipated payoff due to a project since the summer. It's something else than a welfare bill if there's a wind being proclaimed here. I'd like to ask the advance party for these discussions: Are they okay with this? Is that really supposed to be the way it is? [[The president calls.]] Are people really cutting down to the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u106	A respectable president. In general, the beat on the budget bill is that health, health, and welfare matters are being greatly improved. The government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon has already made large contributions to health today from the time of her becoming a former government, which cut down on just the right of health. Regarding the bill's unique team, I'll say the same thing I told you before. Secretary of finance is putting up a budget bill here. I'm on the budget. There this bill comes in, and all aspects of the bill will be examined, as well as all the small health institutions around the country that were cut down by much during the last term. Of course, factors like collective agreements and other factors will be looked out when the budget board takes the bill for the budget board, but this is a bill produced by the secretary of finance today. The big lines are that the welfare and health issues are being improved. [[The president calls.]] The financier is being treated by the bill and reviewed by others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u107	Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance will contribute to this matter. The head of the advance party called this a marvelous welfare law. [[Up in the hall: right.]] He was terribly proud of it. In this grand welfare law, a cuts to the Land Hospital are being proclaimed. In this grand welfare law, there is no increase from the S-marker medicine, although we know well that there's quite a need to be made. In this welfare law, growth improvements are cut down to 1.5 billion, the birthworm is reduced by 221 billion. K. Well, well, well, well, well, well. - Paint, like what? A senator was present at the time, he does not know the inside of the bill if he claims that there is some major medical application here because the facts and figures speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u108	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said in my first speech. The government is greatly improving the quality of society, health care, and the realm of the inner community. This has been shown in the discussions, in this bill, and this will now be carried out on the budget committee and will be employed there. [[Take it up, tell the truth.]] A respectable president. The truth will be the most intense of all. This is different from the former government, which progressively protected the financial system and cut down on the health and welfare services of the health system. We saw it here during the last year that the demands were particularly avoided in taxation, particularly in the exception of tens of billions of taxes. [[Up front.]] [[For example, answer the question.]] [[Up front.]] We now have a government that puts the home, the welfare system in its first place, and those who receive financial support and the demands. It is only hope. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, a minister of the former government, is a minor offense over this changed priorities. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u109	V.E.G. President. I'm so glad to hear it. A senator, the only candidate in charge of budgets for 2016, is to come to a talk and we can have a word with him. He spoke of the priority for home and well - being. Yes, we can take one example that appeared the other day. It's the biggest correction of debt, and it's a worldwide estimate that the government has yielded from the debt of the Glits' swellings of about 170 billion and that it receives only 200 billion. This is the largest correction ever performed by the highest degree. A government, and I didn't realize that it was the highest. The prime minister was giving an election. I'd like to ask you this little answer, please. A senator, because he's talking about maintenance: Is there a problem? A senator pleased with the projects to take action on roads? It is virtually nothing, and in the two years of that government, not one new work has been started. [[The president calls.]] And because of what? A senator spoke up a lot of over 500 million. K. Isavia's money for this year's implementation, it's cut down in this bill. Why is that, and what does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u110	A respectable president. When it was time for the swellingrs of the fallen banks to be settled, there was a solid solid solidarity here at the Senate Hall and in the Economic and Business Committee to address these issues. It is absolutely clear that the current government, whether in the form of a stability or a stable tax, is moving and is moving hundreds of billions into the financial system. [[Up front.]] It is also clear that all proposals of the government go to the Federal Committee, the Government, and the World Health Committee. This came into play when the case was closed, and in fact, I did so on a question of policy here a few days ago. It is clear that the current government is gaining funding for the demands of the fallen banks, as she spoke of for the last election, which many said was not possible, in contrast with the previous government, which was especially in the last term, in the very last term, in an effort to make national use of the debt of swellings and the fallen banks. [[The president calls.]] For the transport question, etc. I must enter it in my second answer, but I will not deny it then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u111	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator will discuss the roads and airports, transportation procedures in the country, and so on. I'd like to ask in a later answer to this district spokesman, who is a very influential former assistant of the Prime Minister, president of the House and Fundament Committee, because at his party meeting, national meeting, or what is now, on the spring days of 2013, just before election, along with the correction, a debt that I talked about earlier, that all that had had to take from the elderly and the micromans should be returned: Why do the elderly and the desperates not get their increased, their pensions increased, I don't want to use the word, from May 1 as well as those who were paid and who were in this country? If he wanted to add the answer to that question, in a later answer to road and transportation issues. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u112	A respectable president. First about transport and infrastructure, I'll keep what I've said here. I have called upon us to provide additional funding for transportation in the scattered areas. I hope so. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller will agree with me on that, and I think we will. A senator debates the view of the community in general that they need a much more important place in general discussions and on political parties because of the fact that often and often lack a certain understanding of the settlements of those living in the capital area. Of course, we need to try to get on with that discussion and try to have more people help us in this regard. As a result of the international airport, it was more important to bring money from a budget to a national airport, something that had been rolled around in the system for more and more years, how to perform and how to solve. Of course it's something... [[Up front.]] A financial committee did this at the last assembly, and this is one of the things to consider in the bill right now when it goes to a financial committee, such as the status of a desperate and elderly, such as health, welfare, transportation, or transportation. We're not running this conversation today. It's just getting started. The bill will be done just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u113	V.E.G. President. Earlier this year, the Secret Bank published a report on financial stability. There was an overview of growth and growth in many countries. It showed that the Icelandic banks have the very best interest in growing. In other words, they are about to take interest in Icelandic consumers. The same banks have been followed by all efforts to rebuild the savings system. Anticipation of this, I felt that the forwarding party responded to their meeting at his country when he agreed to suggest that the Lands Bank be converted to a bank of society. This was made a suggestion. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson. According to this, the advance party's policy was to become a bank that used bitter competition with the other super banks, to hold down interest, and to further the interests of consumers. That's why I'm asking. A senator whether he agrees with what the budget bill says is to sell much of the Lands Bank, thereby preventing the forwarding of the policy of turning it into a bank of society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u114	A respectable president. In terms of interest, interest rates, so I use wording. Skarphéðinsson You must only wonder, before I come to the question, why did the former government decide at its time to deliver at least two of these banks to the hedge fund because there wasn't something to do. [[Up front.]] At that point, of course, we would have taken the immediate consideration of how we were going to organize the financial system to the future in order to ensure a market competition, etc. To the question about the Lands Bank and what to do. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson's been coming in and running in radio interviews and articles, and I'm gonna have to come in on it in my second answer and I won't even escape it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u115	Mr. President. That's not an exact answer. A senator who has recently taken up the rank of being entrusted with directing the Senate party. The new chairman of a panel of candidates has no greater, more direct, than the fact that he does not trust to express firm support for his own policies. Yet, he voted by making the Lands Bank a community bank. All of a sudden, it's reduced to being some kind of idea. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is in the media. Either this is the policy of the advance party or it's not. Either the advance party stands in its feet or it doesn't. It's either got what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason has the authority to remain loyal to the conviction he voted for or not. It seems to me that at the first test there's trouble. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason fighting his responsibility as a platoon member of the advance party and once again letting the Independence Party get to his knees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u116	A respectable president. One more time. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson has misunderstood everything I said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u117	You said nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u118	I told you last year I was going to come in on this in my second answer. [[Up front.]] Regarding the question about the Lands Bank and the ideas that Frosti Sigurjónsson has recently massed in the media and was approved at the forward party party party party party party - thank you, sir. þm. Kristján Möller - I think it's very important for an Icelandic community to take up the discussion about whether or not we should make sure that one bank is built as a community bank. [[Up front.]] [[For example, answer the question.]] In recent months, things have changed a lot. [[Up front.]] For example, during the past six months, the savings system has ended. All these factors require that we as a nation take an informed discussion about this now. That's what Frosti Sigurjónsson's been calling for. I support that there will be an analysis of whether it is reasonable for one of our national banks to remain the bank of all the people of the country, i.e. The Land Bank. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It must be built up to become a community bank, a model for growth, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] That's the project ahead, and that's my support, of course. þm. Össur's ass. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u119	A respectable president. The shock is sometimes called the precipitating failure. Manufacturers. I have sometimes asked, " What is the premise of human failures? ' All right. In the wake of the collapse, people would like to think that no one had anticipated what is wrong. There were many who witnessed the collapse. Now I fear that the example of calling this failure makes one look like a collapse or a crisis that cannot happen again. I'd like to hear a little bit of a attitude. A senator's handling of how we make ourselves available for further economic setbacks and thus a government fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I think we're always supposed to be prepared and should always try to behave our economy so that we try to prevent it by any means possible that we're going to crash again. What happens once can always happen again. I think that one of the factors we've had to make more sure since the collapse of the economy was the banking system. I don't think we've done enough about the banking system, as we've seen, and I've officially criticized you. I also think we need to take up a discussion about the money management, the insurance policy, how she plays into all of this, and how the Navy Bank's operating growth system is built. There are other factors that we need to consider as a community to prevent these things from happening again. [[The president calls.]] I'll carry on with it in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u121	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, and especially that it will continue because these are all ideas that have been submerged and blessed. They are to be discussed, such ideas as community banks, ideas such as that the Lands Bank will remain in government possession, ideas such as disparagement insurance, interest roofs as well as the rest of the streets. However, I cannot see any of these ideas developing in government policy. That's why I'm asking. A senator's approach to the matter and what he thinks is right because he does not see it in the present direction. When are these things to happen, and when are we going to stop talking about it and decide to do it? Now I'm no one who admires my insurance policy more than anyone else. But how is it wise to establish a financial system in society as small, independent and dependent as ours is unclear to me? That's why I really appreciate it. On the other hand, it is. An advance team that has had the greatest opinions on this, I ask: "What is it about the current government action at that time? A senator believes that this is a real goal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u122	A respectable president. Regarding the banking system and the Lands Bank as a community bank and what the current government is doing: One of the things that the current government is doing is finishing handling the demands of the fallen banks. Today, two of the three largest banks in the country belong to these demands. Of course, this is one of the basic tasks in which we can take the next step regarding how we want to see things develop here. One of the things that have been done during this discussion is the savings system, the way it was built up socially. We need to take up a discussion as a community whether we will not see anything replaced by this savings fund, and we need to take up a discussion on whether we believe that with three large banks that are virtually all on the market here, there is enough competition in the financial market. This is one of the main points of view. The reason why they should wake up. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson again speaks of the Lands Bank as a community bank, and some social value includes the end of these little savings. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to take that up, but we're not going to finish it today for short answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-10-3.u123	Mr. President. I thank you for the discussions that have been conducted today and express a willingness to cooperate with a financial committee as much as possible, provide information and respond to inquiries as they may be available for specific issues. Tomorrow, ministers will answer the section under which they are hearing, and then the council will have a fine opportunity to go deeper into the unique sectors. We've been mostly discussing this big movie, and it sounds like we're agreeing that we're looking for a better perspective on economic issues. I think it's important in the government discussion that we talk together and on the basis of a long-term plan, i.e. We keep in mind the discussion that took place here when we proposed a spring financial programme that we will consider where we will go for a long time and that this fall we will prosper to complete a bill to legalize public financial matters that will further strengthen the basis of this long - term policy and will hide. in its introduction to financial rules. I'd like to say, first of all, that there's an effort on both sides, i.e. On the one hand, improving government living, working to pay and reduce interest costs, while also making use of extra space to reduce the weight of the country's homes and the sector. At the same time, the bill introduces some radical changes in the consumption of taxes that I think are important. We'll lower the income tax in two steps, and then we'll have completely cut the middle step out when it's fully accomplished, the intermediate phase that was in place when we came here, a new government, to deal with it. It was 25.8% who took over when wages were just about 250 yous. K. Then they started paying income taxes to the State to 25.8%, but a new step before the first, and it will be 22.5%. Therefore, this is an important step forward for the intermediate groups, but when all is taken together, we are getting very light below with all the pay points below. At least a relative percentage comes to those at the top of the pay ladder. Along with tax reductions and simple consumer taxes, we further strengthen the infrastructure, but even though it is very urgent to get even more involved and in larger ways, we have set up a set payment policy that we are trying to follow, that the growth of the pioneers will not be more than one - percent average in the coming years. I think that approach was important. I think that as soon as we start looking for an extended period of time with a goal and then trying to try to fit ourselves into the frames we first set, e.g. In terms of growth, we will succeed both in making budgets work better than in the case of many people and in ensuring that what we are doing in the state of our lives supports the economy. We've heard some opinions about this financial bill. I have noticed that it has been criticized for not being conservative enough, and here at the council some say: There is a need for extra expenses, so you get to see both sides. That's why I think there's a good reason we've made a good difference. So it can be said that not too much is in the bill. If we're looking at the maintenance requirement, there was no such operation on the social security system and only 0.5% on the health and education systems, while a 0.75% claim is made elsewhere. What happens then, when we give the individual categories of spending space is that, in some cases, they use the spending range to delete the requirements. In this way we actually see less actual growth of expenses than it would have been possible to allow space for the individual language groups, e.g. in education because they wanted to protect them from a lawsuit in a further conservative requirement. This is why the matter has, in part, been criticized on the grounds that there is no evidence of adequate maintenance, but to understand this discussion, I would suggest that our primary charges remain to be reduced as a proportion of land production. There isn't a country in the European Union that has more primal equations than Iceland, and we actually have a considerably higher level of primacy than other countries. If we look to the year 2014, it is far greater in Iceland than it is anywhere else. We have such high interest expenditures, but they are, of course, our major problems right now, and what is best for us to do better in various areas of life. Hence, it is happy that the next year we will have room to pay a great deal of debt. We expect more than 200 billion subsidies, and then let's see how you can play out, if you can do more on that subject, but the long-term plan is constantly improving debt ratios, each year. This is among the important things when it comes to appreciation for Iceland's credit rates. We've recently gained a better credit rating, an increase in Iceland's credit ratings, and it could continue if we stick to these policies. There's been quite a talk about the improvement system here. I mentioned it just before that we did not make any money on social security requirements, but there's gonna be quite a rise. Here, people have discussed the need to do more. I have a clear understanding that humans want to do even better, but it doesn't change that we're doing very much already. If we look e.g. to pensioners who have no employment opportunities and no collected life savings rights, are they in good condition with the guarantees they have in the social security system? No, therefore, none of them can claim it. However, their situation continues to improve, but it has improved somewhat, and it has been improving this year. Their situation also improved last year, and we may not be able to improve the situation of these people each year. It's not long since we had to go to the social security rights. It was done in this room. But if we continue to clean up the debt gate, we will strengthen our position to meet those who have the greatest need for support and, of course, the same is true of the disability pension. There are weaknesses in our system, and they are talking about a review of the social security system, which I hope will be returned within the next few weeks of the proposals we can build the system further. There has been a special discussion of a system change that has led to a more extensive work-making evaluation and is somewhat controversial. But I believe that we would be able to make a great deal of progress in these matters if we were to secure in particular those who are in part of their disability, the right to pursue employment without causing impairment, which is the very idea of a work-by-work estimate. We all know that when changes are made from one system to another, there will be no cases where the rights will be somewhat inferior in the new system. This can lead to a system change on its own, leading to a considerable amount of expenses. But let us not predetermine that we do not come to a good conclusion on this matter. What I feel is a special observation, or what we have to look at in this traffic is all the losses due to the income of the pension system or by the sector and the different events that make the system infinitely complex. The system has been resonated through the time that has focused on individual groups that are properly placed in the system while others carry a more significant item from a level. It's a complicated system, but the good news is that we're adding to it this time. In other areas, we are happy that we can strengthen our health care facilities at the medical facility. There's a lot of money on the premises in the bill. We are also making a campaign for education in science and innovation, bringing much money, new money into the seminary. Some have discussed travel services specifically, whether to continue building there. I must say exactly as it is, I have been surprised that in spite of the great rich will of the government to support the infrastructure in this area, it seems to me that men were not ready, in spite of a very certain appeal to the government to support building up, to receive the money that the government was willing to commit to that party. Thus there are very large sums of money, more than a billion, waiting to be carried out on a project of authority in this area. I'm not going to do any more to track specific groups of subjects. I'm going to finish my case by saying that we have a budget bill that clearly indicates that we've turned our backs on the offensive. Now I feel that everything's changed just as clearly as they are concerned that the next step is to plan long - term plans for the state. Public financial laws are key to this. The next long term financial programme, as well as the need to adjust the approach of the council to these matters so that it is as self - righteous a part of the discussion of who is looking at and discussing individual groups. If it does, the Kingdom has taken hold of my intelligence to build up the stability. Certainly we still need to discuss money policy and other important issues, at least. Not for the state to report that it causes unnecessary expansion in the economy by its decisions. Then I'm going to come to the last item I'm going to mention in my case, which I expect we'll talk about in the winter and be on the schedule a lot, especially because some of my crew contracts are still missing, that's the labour market. It is the link that we need to strengthen the foundations of our country's stability. This bill and other matters I have been referring to are key elements in improving country stability and extending to the interest level, maintaining low- and job-level in good places. In my opinion, loss of the workforce is our main concern when discussing the possibility of reducing growth, reducing inflation, and stabilising in the country. This is because of how fragile the film is when it comes to the workforce, how small groups can use their positions to pressure the rise above others, and thus move on all solidarity. That's especially interesting to me at this time after the last winter, and it takes no more than that at the beginning of this year - and now only September, just nine months past - we had a low inflation, the Navy had relatively reduced growth. Then there began a series of events that led to a very large increase in pay, and in time we are in position to be in the wrong position and to be seen as one another to avoid being responsible for increasing social silences. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In other words, we have made a full cycle of pay increases, and in a few months we have reassigned prices and interest. [[The president calls.]] Now people need to pause and build better foundations for the future.
