ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u1	The sad news is that Halldór Ásgrímsson, a former general and prime minister, died in a hospital last afternoon because of a heart attack three days earlier. Halldór was only 67 years old. Halldór Ásgrímsson was born on the arms of September 8, 1947. His parents were Ásgrímur Halldórsson, the manager of the Cape of the Hornfjord, and Guðrún Ingólfsdóttir's daughter, a housewife. Halldór finished a test from the Pioneer Service School in 1965 and later began a reexamination and was revised in 1970 as a legal accountant. He went to college at the University of Business in Bergen and Copenhagen in 1971-1973. He became a lecturer at the University of Iceland for two years, after which he dedicated himself to political and other government jobs. In 1974, when prominent candidates in Eastern politics, including Eysteinn son of Jónsson, were eliminated, the young university professor was consulted to sit on the list of the General elections during that summer. Although Halldór had little known place in the east, his father was the leader of the Theocratic Ministry School, the Cape of the Hornfjord, and his grandfather and all name had been General of the Norwegian and later of the Eastern District for more than two decades. Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgrim was elected with the youngest to the council, and with the youngest members of the Parliament for many terms, as he often said in humor itself. They already realized that there was a future leader of the party. He was his top spokesman for economic and business matters, and he was concerned with the government's financial and commercial matters. He was at the Council of the Federal Bank of London, 1976,1983, and was chairman of the last three years. In the 1978 General election, which became difficult for the forwarding party, Halldór, who was elected again for a year and a year later, in December 1979, had a continuous session until 2006. He was always elected for an Eastern district except in his last election, in 2003, when he was elected a member of the Council of Smoke. n. Outside of that council, 1978,1979, he did many jobs, mainly as a sailor, but he was called to the council as a substitute in the fall of 1978. He was sitting at 37 legislatures. After the 1983 General election, Halldór Ásgrímsson became a seafaring minister and therefore served a continuous office for eight years, during a time of great conflict in Icelandic fishing. At the end of his 1991 Ministry of Ministers, this article had established a saying of goodbye, and it was developed and fully developed at the end of his career. During all that time, there was great conflict. During the elected period of 1987,1991, Halldór also performed a one - year court and church minister, 1988,1989, which became a focus of time in those seminars. As a seafaring minister, Halldór gained superior knowledge of the affairs of the seabed, enjoyed uncircumcised trust, and was later called upon when problems arose in that article. Halldór, who was an unbeliever in the United States, was also president of the Council of Iceland, as well as president of the Economic and Business Commission for one year. By the words of Stingimur the Steingrímur of Hermannsson in 1994, Halldór Ásgrímsson was elected president of the Anarchy, who had then served as his vice president for 14 years. They won the regiment under the lead of the new president a fine election win in 1995. Following him, Halldór became minister of foreign affairs and thus served in office for over nine years, 1995,2004, longer than anyone else. He became prime minister in September of that year. In May 1999, he was in charge of the work of the Environment and Agriculture Minister, and in January and February 2001, he conducted the Department of Health and Security. In June 2006, Halldór decided to disappear from the political scene, resigning as a general of the council after more than 30 years at a council and as a minister for a period of 19 years. Only one man has a longer minister's career behind Halldór Ásgrímsson. In the autumn of 2006, with the approval of the Norwegian leaders, Halldór became the secretary - general of the Norwegian Ministers with his residence in Copenhagen. He was there in his experience and opinion, as well as in his complete recognition of the Norwegian cooperation involved in it for decades and the minister of the Norse Collaborate Cooperation Work in 1985,1987, and 1995 to1999. The extensive work of the executives was held in 2013. Halldór's work, both as secretary of state and secretary - general of the Norwegian Minister, was accompanied by great, often difficult, long travel. After the official office of Halldór was completed and he returned to Iceland, he was reassigned to various international organizations that promote peace and human rights. As the first years of their trust were won by Halldór Ásgrímsson, not just among his partyers, but far beyond their ranks. He had an extensive knowledge of economic and commercial issues and was considered a policy politician, and he was sometimes likened to a rock at sea. On his day, he was slow and balanced and treated with his great temper and zeal. He was warm, approachable, and a friend of his friends. Although the seriousness of life was always short, he loved to rejoice with humans when he felt that it was appropriate to do so. Halldór's career was the most outstanding feature of his political success that he was a productive, altruism, and unusual discernment and fairness. As a leader, he took a firm stand, even though issues were controversial. Those who knew and worked with Halldór Ásgrímsson at the General Assembly and in the government now miss a good friend and a strong associate who could always be trusted. At the unexpected and untimely death of the son of Ásgrímsson Ásgrim, former prime minister, the people have seen behind them a major political officer for decades. I ask a council to remember Ásgrímsson Ásgrim's son by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u2	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of the Parliamentary Party for Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, 1st. Witchest. "I'm not going to be able to do Congress any time soon. So yesterday, at the World Council of II, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district, Sigurður Páll Jónsson. This exchange has been reported on the Generals web. Sigurður Páll Jónsson has once taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u3	A respectable president. It is now reason to ask whether it is proper to postpone the council for two, three weeks or so, since the government does not seem to know whether it is coming or going or whether it is to go, nor what case should be brought up, even though all meals have long since expired. Is this to include the various major issues that the government has mentioned? She doesn't know it herself. Until the government itself knows whether it will bring up a matter or take care of a matter, it is natural impossible to complete the council. It is now a question of whether it is proper to postpone the council and to let the council come together again when the government has its perplexing counsel and has some idea where it is heading and what subjects she intends to take care of at this council. If the government does not know what matters she would like to be given over at the council, how can it be accomplished?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u4	A respectable president. We are still working according to the council's work programme, the relevant one on the Generals website, and we are still on one of the highest level. Minister, this time the highest. Prime Minister, state some kind of announcement that there is a meeting in July. I'd like the President to know what the situation of this case is. We have not been informed that anything else exists but that we adhered to a work plan. So when it comes to that government, you are no longer surprised. The lack of leadership and perspective is complete in this as another way, with the overwhelming announcement. The prime minister is, as it were, in that spirit. I'm asking the highest. Whether the president had any conversation with the prime minister about the continuation of the council or whether this is one of these epileptic statements made by prime minister, which proves to be a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u5	A decision has not been made to abandon a work programme in order to be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u6	President. I agree with the demands of my comrades who have expressed themselves and reiterate that I find it very serious that here we face the fact that no case from the government has been established by the General Assembly. It is evident that governments have absolutely no respect for the President of the Generals, whom I find very difficult. This is not a time to upset the council. According to the prime minister or interview with the President of the Generals, there should be a summer council - but there has been no legal case at the council. What are we going to do at the summer Summit? Is it not an occasion to have a meeting with members of the council and to explain the precise timelines for the coming of this alleged matter, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to start by making a comment on the program today. Here is where we again discuss a very controversial frame plan, which contains an adjustment form that is most frankly said to be of no solidarity. I'm the highest. A president to soak his head and open his eyes to the fact that there may be other ways to resolve this matter and put it in a more upbuilding way for the entire country. We don't have to have Congress like this. Then I agree with others who have spoken about the importance that now we sit down and see what subjects we are going to discuss in July as high as the highest level. Prime Minister says. What subjects are coming? It's odd now, there should be a few days left of a staff program, and yet members of Congress have nothing to sit down to figure out what the situation is, what's urgent, what's coming and what we need to finish. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u8	A respectable president. Once again, we face this, not just at this assembly, but so often before. I suggest that we focus on conducting a meeting board so that at least the program is settled. It's absurd how much disagreement there is on this subject, it should be quite possible to sort it out. There are many ways of doing what I've mentioned before, including... that the people may receive a gift of speech and be able to have a small inhibitor in the high Council. Similarly, when the disagreement here is too much for us to do our job, the smaller part will get a court order and can bring it into the national payment. There are also other steps to take into account, affairs to live between council members, etc. It is unacceptable that year after year, and now from day to day of this assembly, we are paddling on the program. There should be so little peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u9	A respectable president. I can't believe we're starting another week on the controversial box when there's a big deal on the job market. Perhaps there is also a reason why it seems that the government has no answer to the debate, no answer. Not even agreeing on the results of change in the housing system, it becomes evident that ministers are not only in conflict but also that they provide incomplete prime warnings for cost evaluations. I think there's some sort of recession to take and try to draw up a picture of how to complete this council and in what way we can do it together in order to be a part of it. We're ready for this, a respectable president, but it's important that we discuss the big issues that are at work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying that I don't have anything to go to the conference board. President to put and count her with a great picture. There are some things in this discussion that are surprising. Government officials believe that either the government has no legal case in the winter, so there is nothing here to make up for the need to postpone action here to consider what to consider. I think it's a great flag. Here's the schedule. The chairman of the Conspiracy proposed last week that it was time to consider the party's engagement in the subject of the program, would like to start counting heads in the management team. I agree, let's get this case started on a vote. That's how we feel about heads, isn't it? I think it's perfectly normal for us to continue our work here. I figure there's about 30 members of Congress waiting here on the 2nd. We have plenty to do, so let us simply continue with the program. I encourage all of us to work well together today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u11	Mr. President. When we separated from the council on Friday and finished the discussion on that day about the box, I thought that the weekend would be used by the administrative parts to set priorities for my work. This lack of anger here has become prominently severe, not only for us who work here, but also for the people in the society who trust that certain matters are done before the end of the council, both those that have the potential to arrive at collective agreements and also for housing that can become part of that conclusion. You can't go on like this. If more than one member of the body is burned by stepping in this change in framework and work that has been in years and trying to destroy it, they must also realize that this discussion will be received. [[The president calls.]] There will be no objections.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u12	A respectable president. Now we continue to experience this circus in a filibuster for the government. There's a complaint about the lack of anger in the administration home and the lack of direction from the president on the subject. I don't know why. The members of my section do not realize that this is to complete a discussion of a frame plan. While they continue in the way they have done, talking about this matter even more about it and related matters, and then again completely unrelated to an issue with the President's conference board, where time is even longer than the case itself, we obviously do not aim. It is in the hands of my part to perform in this way and to prevent any more democratic activities in the council from taking this case for the final process and applying it to a body of Congress. It will be the only thing that will be done if this issue ends with the conclusion proposed here. [[The president calls.]] There is a wide, open agreement and there will be no compromise, so let's just start work and discuss the matter objectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u13	A respectable president. I'm amazed to say that this program is being held here today. I would have thought the situation in society was such that people should set aside every matter and focus on what they see. The strikes of tens of thousands of Icelanders with huge cost, incredible cost of sacrifice for society all over, have debilitating effects, and aim for countless companies in bankruptcy. I could argue that we were before a national emergency. It is amazing for the government to decide to set this matter on schedule day after day. I also express surprise. paritaprevir After just a few days of discussions, Jón Gunnarsson's son is so anxious and complaining that he is discussing this matter that he made as great a change as he really is. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of weird shit going on here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm one of the people who expected this issue to be out of schedule here today. Rather, we'd start working on other matters. It is a huge concern to hear the news last morning when we're four to six weeks in a BHM strike that a contract meeting was completed last night, saying that the government is just gonna wait until the public market is finished. Let's pretend if the problem was that the government was waiting or we're standing here, but that's keeping patients waiting. They pay the price for this decision by the government, and it must be responsible for it. I'm also going to get the attention of the highest. A president noted that in the discussion before the weekend, it was carried out to the highest level. The prime minister makes it clear that these frameworks are part of collective agreements. Among other things, he quotes them in ASI. Since ASI has said: " We want whale healing, but we want work to be done. ' Yet the highest. The prime minister still feels that this is part of collective agreements. Are we surprised, though, that we discuss this matter and try to discern whether we are coming or going? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u15	A respectable president. You can see it on the news, like dog. paritaprevir The divine nature of Hannesson is going over here, that it is not good to review this matter very carefully and clearly even better than has been done. When a prime minister claims that it is part of the challenge of improving the frame plan, he is simply wrong. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Hannesson of Hannes, however, referred to an ASI review that does not call for this, saying that the project management should overdo it. Then, too, the highest. Prime Ministers and members of the Management Board here are told about the Association of Tourism, the traveling service that is being promoted here almost every day for the strength of growth, the strength of this article, but there is no need to listen to it in this matter. Is it not part of this job market? Isn't she part of an Icelandic commercial life? A respectable president. Here's the wrong thing to do. Clearly, they do not know what they are talking about, what this discussion is all about. [[The president calls.]] They need to sit here in the hall and listen to what is being discussed and find out the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u16	A respectable president. The program is already in the hands of the chairman of the council, and the responsibility is there for what will be discussed. There's also a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson does not have any part of the program here at the council. He has considerable authority and authority, but he has no part of the program here at the council, so it is said. Now it's half an hour to discuss housing tomorrow, half an hour. And that is the initiative of the government. It's about half an hour before fishing. It is also the initiative of the government. That is the event we have planned for this week. The arrival will be new in behalf of important matters. As long as the President doesn't see the importance of talking about the serious situation in the labour market, and that we're here with a frame of motion playing with all the normal discussions, we can't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u17	Mr. President. I trust the highest. The best way to manage this council is by the president, and I think the experience will show that this does not result in much increase in the progress of the council at any given moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson comes and offers to take over the meeting board. For me it's sort of enough, and I'm sure it will. A senator has enough to be a chief minister of some kind and to start ordering both the European Commission and the legislature authority in that subject. [[Up front.]] However, I come here, Mr. President, in order to remain, with the highest words being spoken. Prime Minister of the media, whether or not a decision has been made to have a summer council. I'm asking the highest. The president is not sure if he would consider the next one as easy, if it is now a agreement with both sides, to complete a council on schedule. I notice that the highest. The president has adopted a presentation of meetings at ten o'clock in the morning, as is the case when an optimistic president assumes that congregational work can be completed at the right time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u18	You're right next door. A senator who is president is an optimistic man. In response to ask why. From earlier times, the president reiterates his answer: The decision of a summer council has not been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u19	A respectable president. The government continues to attack the highest. Prime Minister, who uses the chairman of the council's public talk, is not new. But you may have thought that it would reduce something like this in the past few weeks. I can't believe that the government's opposition is going to appear here, speak and speak in this program, not allowing a frame plan on the convention program, this matter required to return from the decision of the last government. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir last week spoke of aggressive politics. A respectable president. The government situation is here today, as it was during the last days. At the same time, I would like to point out the hypocrisy of those words of government opposition and not allow this matter to be held on the program, since for the council there is a proposal for a resolution from all members of the Council of Bjart's future, which requires immediate action in the implementation of an electronic group to Europe. [[The president calls.]] Where to get the energy, Mr. Honorable President? It's a castle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u20	Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I don't see us making much progress while the council is being held hostage for more of the employment committees. I like it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is quick to look at himself in the face of self - criticism when he throws all the responsibility for this situation on the government side and frees himself and the government. The government is unemployable, facing the entire nation, and it is in real confusion, as financial ministers and social ministers testify. Prime Minister is reporting to us from the town's summer council, June and July. The minister of finance has his own version, it is necessary to put in primes for execution at the end of the council, then pause for a few weeks, and then attend the council to regroup to resolve his affairs. On the other hand, we are not spoken to, and we are not expected to be president either. Finally: The nature of Iceland doesn't really have a voice, but she can gain a voice through us who are here and who are ready to speak it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I'm going to do that, no matter what a great deal of politicians I am about to do. The members of Jón Gunnarsson's son and his wife, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, are suffering.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u21	Set the matter on schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u22	V.E.G. President. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who uses them for the part of this subject, so that I can hear a fine talk from each one. A senator, rather than being here in eternal comments about the President's conference board, has nothing to do with the President's meeting board but with a material discussion on the subject. [[Up front.]] Why should we not continue the discussion? Why does the vice president of the United States leave, boy? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, in a material discussion under Presidential Summit? Is it not because men are here trying to kill time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u24	Paint.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u25	Paint.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u26	I think there's a problem with all those sitting at home, watching this. I don't care about the comments here from the councilroom, from people who don't want to come up here, that we know them from the moment we were in a position of government. That's right. [[Up front.]] But when you're going to make a sound about the President's conference board, at least you have to have a little thought in discussing the President's conference board rather than the subject on the program. Then get into a material discussion about the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u27	President. So I repeat again the request of the less part on the council program. I suggest that the president take this matter off the program so we can handle the rest of the 40 cases. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsleyddótttir pointed out. I'd like them to point out that none of the cases waiting for the government's big case because they're not here at the General so that trying to make it look like we're stalling some important issue is a clean and clear lie, President. Lying is not a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u28	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president mentioned earlier that the work programme would stand and nothing would be changed in that regard, yet we are here in this hostage situation. The director of the Jón Gunnarsson's Business Committee, and nothing happens. There's a big deal coming in. I mention, for example, a switch to the social part of the crop system, 5.3%, to the highest level. A seaman minister will tell you what to do. [[For example, consider the following: Seabeds too?]] Yeah, that's the schedule, that thing's going to come on, that's just the way it is, so it's gonna have to be expected in the program. That case will be discussed. I don't understand how people don't know how to use a calendar in here, it seems to be somehow so they can't figure out what they're doing. Of course, it is the mackerel and the fishing costs and other big cases waiting. But the fact that everything is subject to this situation shows that people are on the wrong path, reality, and they are not supposed to be offered this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u29	A respectable president. I remember that at the beginning of the last week, when the president announced that this case would be set up, there was no great shout at the meeting, no applause for the president for bringing this matter on the program, but it was very strongly warned that it would put all the Senate work in a great panic and the Congress work together in a knot. Of course, they went into this situation with both eyes, they knew exactly what position would come up here, and they do not have to be surprised that the situation is what it is today. What surprises me is how long the government's going to insist on this matter, how long the government and the government are going to beat their heads at the stone in this matter, because it's not gonna change anything. This occurred at the beginning of the last week and is exactly as noted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u30	V.E.G. President. I'm glad that the President has said that there is no way to change the General Work Programme. This means that there are several days left in Congress. I want to use this opportunity to ask the highest. The president of some council cases, very urgent, that will come in and we need to be settled. Transport Plan, where is she? An interpretation proposal to divide money into a so-called little pot against the fishing system? Health plan? The currency capital? And that's how you could continue to count. Considering that there are some days left, as the president says, these cases must come in as soon as possible. I reiterate my question to the highest. President: Where are these matters, and how shall we complete them in the short time remaining?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u31	President wants to judge what he's said twice. He has said that a decision was not made to change the schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u32	A respectable president. I'm going to do what the others do. I'm not gonna make a comment to the President's conference board because no one has ever done in this discussion. However, I would like to state that the discussion number two on the program, about a so-called frame plan, was taken care of by a professional committee with the opinion of the committees of both the larger and the smaller parts. After more and less committees have been taken care of, they are often not on the program and not just on this case, many of the same - hurt cases are supplied with committees with members of the committee's list more and less. In this regard, it is not a personal matter, whether it is a matter or not. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son or why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who has a minor opinion from a professional health committee. It is spoken of as if those who are interested in activation, use, or want to see it do not care about the natural world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I refuse to allow myself to have such a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u33	A respectable president. If you don't like the President's conference board, where else do you want to talk about it but underneath the President's conference board? I think the board of directors is in here, huh? Councilmen, close their ears, and make no sense that this is a very large group of senators, and I'm one of them, who is very at odds with the conference board and how the highest level is. The president has given his part in the program. V.E.G. The president is practically the sole guide of the program here, if he wants to arrange the situation that way, he can control it. I think it's very important to do so. The president will be granted his power. I think it's the best. The president has abused his power by putting completely unconcerned on a program that is a very hot matter in the council hall, during a fight in the country, and then obviously many other matters that we should be discussing here. Clearly, there are so many other ways to settle this matter but to argue about it here in the chamber. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage you. Generals to come up here discussing these hard facts about the President's conference board, which we've established, about all this inconsistencies and their opinion of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u34	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator here last spoke. Of course, it is important when we wish to cooperate, as the government has been very persistent in its fine suit of government. However, there has been little in the past, very little. That is why it must be so, when a matter is presented without consultation with the government body, that such a debate, as it has been explained here, that we take advantage of this location to be heard, that we want to discuss other matters. We want to talk about the community. What can we as a Congress do to improve our social development, so that we may be able to land collective agreements instead of just saying no to the BHM people, for example? It's just not gonna be a deal. A respectable president. It has a much secondary cost to a trust fund, except, of course, the inconveniences of patients and other people who will not be given the service they need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u35	V.E.G. President. I'm going to allow myself to come up here and describe my joy with the President's conference board. I think it's the best. It is controlled by the president firmly and firmly determined and believes that he has answered all the questions asked here as clearly as possible. I thank him very much for that, but it is sobering to consider whether we need to refer it to the prime committee how we approach our conversations at the council, to what course we have them, and to how we use this team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u36	A respectable president. Given the reasons, it is necessary to review just how this can affect a decision-to-treat and look up a work programme or project plan with a fixed-up contract signed by the Government, this smaller part, June 25, 2009. It reviews the projects to be carried out in 2009 to 22014, a total of 740 billion projects. It's a power plant, 200 megawatts, another power plant, 200 megawatts, a power plant attached to Backcoat, a record of 206 billion. There should be data creatures in the North and data plant in southwestern. There should be paper factory, etc. Did the government at that time uphold this stability covenant? No, she didn't stand up to him. And why not? Because energy efficient projects were not being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u37	It's just wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u38	This was the basis for the lack of energy efficient implementation. [[Up front.]] All the projects I listed here that are listed in the ASI Convention of the Government. [[The president calls.]] We're working on that right now. Let's just start working on a technical discussion of the importance of such projects for an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u39	Mr. President. I object that this part of the program was not generally used to discuss the chairmanship of the president, although perhaps with the exception of the previous discussion at the time. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. Clearly, there is no agreement about the program, so we must come up here and discuss it at the highest level. President. This was shown in the case of the highest. President before the decision was not made to change the General Work Programme. All right, however, there is a very misleading message coming from the directors of the Supreme Court. Governments. So I want to ask the highest. President if he's going to call the top executives. Governments as well as directors of the International Parliament will remember the part at their meeting and try to make some sense of how we are going to finish these last days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u40	Mr. President. I object to the fact that there is still another day in the frame program. I know that the President is very interested in the respect of the council. He has presented it many times. This program, as it appears today, is not a matter of increasing the respect of the council. V.E.G. The president must see it as much as I and others that this situation does not increase the respect of the council, and the president has in his power to make the program different. I object, Mr President, that it's like this one more day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u41	Mr. President. There is no transport plan, there is not a pact proposal for pots, there are not yet two major prime reports on housing, billions of languages. It is not stated, according to one report, two cases of excommunication of the penitentiary. In other words, at least six major matters that the government has proclaimed or that it has a legal obligation to submit to the council. They can't be seen anywhere. The labour market is on fire in disputes, the government is in shreds, and a few days are left of the General Job. Yet, there have been no conversations with the initiatives of the executives of the administrations, not even phone calls, and probably not with the president, but as the way he here speaks of a plan of operation, which I agree, of course. A respectable president. This is not possible. This kind of contact with government cannot be offered in such a way that we take them to heart, plan a controversial issue like the following, and then go home. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u42	V.E.G. President. If, all of a sudden, the frame plan has become such a big part of solving collective agreements, I'd like to point out, only to a greater degree, that if this proposal is adopted by change proposals, I'm afraid that, for example, the initiating ideas in Involved Involvement will be held back because of the procedures that will be supported by the Environment and Resource Ministry's opinion that the Council can't make a change proposal as much as it has done here. As a result, I'm going to have to do with Idolization, which I think a considerable greater proportion of things here at the Council would like to agree, also upset. Therefore, the quickest way to help a collective agreement, if the prime minister is right, to withdraw the adjustment and go for Indomination, may be in the suitcase at the highest level. Prime Minister to the labour market party to complete contracts, which in fact, I question a little bit about being the highest level. At the end, the prime minister has set out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u43	V.E.G. President. It is obvious that we are discussing a meeting director because we want the program to be different from what it says here. I'm glad, though, that in discussions about President's conference board, we have a problem. The head of a professional car management committee showed health symptoms by drawing support for the previous government and realizing that much of what was being done there would have been better followed. I refuse, though, the reasoning here was used earlier that this project was merely about major workers. The projects listed earlier focused on the New Land Hospital, 2+2, on the Western road. I have said, fortunately, we didn't wear all this because we need money in everything else. The task is not now being done and speeding up by activation alone. What I challenge to the highest. The President's work is to have the length of time checked out by the task management board, which did not even receive funding from the current part of the work to the project management. That's what's going on. So let's just take up HIM activation and get to speed up the work at the project management so that it depends on its legal processes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u44	Mr. President. Last week, I protested that this case was on the program. I do it again and again, and that, for example, has been referred to by the Ministry of Environment and Resources in which the adjustment is not a law. I don't understand why diplomats are so anxious that we want to take the time to discuss this matter. The 30 points cited here were to wait for 2nd. only do people believe that commercial drugs are available on TV for the construction of collective agreements or the implementation of accident insurance insurance in a special law section. Where are the matters that the management wants to come on the program here? In this charade, I expect the executives to tell us what subjects they're waiting for, which are so urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u45	To answer, Prime Minister, Department of Social Affairs and Homeland Affairs and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u46	A respectable president. This is better known than it has to be said that Congress has been in turmoil for over a week because the government's determined will to set up a framework for a clause of national legislation and the right course of action. V.E.G. The prime minister says to the State Radio last night and gives the justification for this process of advancement that it is an important matter to cover contracts. This is completely preposterous, on the other hand, because there is not one analyst who has concluded that energy shortages inhibit economic growth forecasts, and because there is no one organization of remuneration in the country that has been called after disregarding a framework of the procedure and procedure. On the contrary, it is clearly stated in the National Association of Iceland that it is important not to interrupt the project. Rather, it is the principle created in a framework, that is, the most important thing. Thus, this issue is not to be paid for contracts, at least not to wish for the national employee movement. A respectable president. On the other hand, there are two things that could lead to paying for the construction of collective agreements, and we know exactly what that is. Another is tax change proposal to increase the tax balance, to meet the needs of people on low pay, and thus to reduce the work of collective agreements. The rest of the matter would be developed proposals in the area of housing that the government has promised since its arrival, two years ago, and it will not do anything about. There seems to be no indication that the government is developing practical suggestions that can be seen at the General Assembly. That's why I have to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it not true that he now recognizes that in order to pay for collective agreements, it is most important to take off this frame of action and set up here the matter of housing and real solutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u47	A respectable president. I'm going to start by taking the bottom off with what. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, it would be desirable for the program to begin, but it stands totally up to the government opposition that spends whole days discussing the President's conference board, a meaningful discussion in which men arrange for two sessions to hold the same talks on the President's conference board. [[Up front.]] That is why other issues cannot be arranged. However, in terms of the association of energy sources with collective agreements, they are primarily about the need for increased wealth. If indicated, pay may be increased, i.e. if raising pay is to lead to real commercial growth, real cutbacks, we need to produce more value in Iceland. It has also pointed out the common relationship because of what it is. A senator refers to this. While the Common Union emphasizes the importance of sticking to professional work in the form of a Framework Programme, such as that of the year. A senator also correctly points out, indeed, that it was the product of professional work that the advantages discussed here go to a novelty party. Therefore, in 2012, the Allied Union decided, and in 2013 the Federal Republic of America's Central Government Guided it to correct the mistakes of the last government, to correct the political intervention of the last administration in a frame plan, by reassigning these benefits to a novelty party. In other words, this is merely an adjustment to political intervention of the last administration in a frame plan in line with Iceland's Common Association at its time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u48	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister cannot choose some time to quote from the National Association of Iceland, he must quote the information available from the UN on this matter in which the Common Union opposes professional practices and issues taken from the task force. Then it's going to be the highest. The prime minister is about to enter the modern - day field of employment. This is not to say that big workers are the only way to increase money in Icelandic society during the 21st century C.E. There are other options that can be taken. It must also be remembered that in this case it is directed against tourism advice, creating an Icelandic national farm three times as much currency as the industry today. V.E.G. The prime minister is trapped in the thinking of the past and must understand that if we are to keep up with our young people in Iceland, if we want the people who have left the country to come back home, we need to make more valuable jobs, and it must be based on progressive employment policy, not on old - fashioned policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u49	A respectable president. I thought you had a lot of news in this second talk. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's annual Árnason, for the discussion is no longer about the form, the empty talk of the form. Now it's a bad idea. A senator, chairman of the United Nations, oversaw that he is against these activation plans, he is against more active, there is nothing to be activated. There is news from the United States, a respectable president, and is completely contrary to what that class spoke for, even during his last term, when he was in the administrative business with left green. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] This is contrary to the agreement of that government with the labour market partners, contrary to what the company's ministers spoke in their time. Now we have a new direction for the Continent: no more continuum transfunctioners. It is clear that there are a number of changing jobs, just as they have been building up here in the country over the past few years, but they also need energy. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Many projects are primarily waiting for necessary energy and environmental projects, technical projects, future projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u50	Mr. President. That's exactly what I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister just ahead of us in this matter. As we've seen here, the highest said. Yesterday's prime minister saw that it would be obvious that there would be a growing number of initiatives that would differ from the current framework, that would be necessary for the rich and, in many respects, the rightful dresser reforms required in a public and public labour market, all of which must be seen. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, in view of the fact that there are many projects in preparation, four sets of tasks, if any, that are more and less used in preparation. However, we look at other employment issues. The network of tourism, the organization of the largest sector of industry, the most remuneration sector, considers that there is a high level of legality that is being passed by a legal framework in proposaling more than a part of the job board and that they have to follow the legal frame. ASI, the largest employee movement in the country, has issued a review and, however, is the highest. Of course, when discussing the position of the employee, the prime minister enjoys groping of old documents as we know them. What does ASI say about the matter? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let the task management proceed to complete the discussion on these advantages before taking sides with them. So I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Will the highest. Prime Minister to link this matter to collective agreements? Is he telling the people who are waiting for the government to have a solution with BHM waiting for treatment in the hospital that if the Allied don't pass by and ignore a legal program, they won't be agreed? It's the highest. Would the prime minister really put the matter into this context? I'd like to get that straight, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u51	A respectable president. It was a long-lasting twist. A senator comes a little surprised from this point of view. A senator has probably been perturbing in his inquiries. I have not said or indicated that it will be finished here with anything to do with whether the contract will be over the BHM's head, i.e. you will not want to negotiate with BHM if you do not intend to engage in activation. I'm simply saying that if you're going to negotiate a substantial increase in pay raise, you'll need more valuable value in the country so that they'll earn more money, or you'll lose them and burn up inflation. Even though it was. A senator clearly believes that energy has already been provided, including in all planned silicas, it's simply not right. There are a number of important tasks, which usually include not major projects that lack energy, important future tasks that lack energy, projects that will be reduced to create a number of jobs, increase money in the country, increase economic growth, improve quality of living, and the need for energy is undermined. Then it must be all right, a respectable president, to look at at at the least. the energy sources that are considered environmentally friendly, not just in Iceland, but even throughout Europe. It must be considered, at least, because it must not be forgotten that although priming factors go into the colony, this does not mean that they will be activated. There is a lot of work to determine if there is any reason to engage in activation and whether it is safe with respect to nature, economics, and so on. A respectable president. If you want to make more money, you really need more valuable things in this country. Sadly, over a number of cases, there has been a lack of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u52	Mr. President. That's the best I can hear. The prime minister is making this suggestion, which makes up all Congress because it contradicts the legal process of a frame plan, in connection with the need for an increase in valuableness, is best done by other options in a frame plan, regardless of whether we are walking past a legal process. In order to achieve real improvement, we need this increased treasure creation. So I can't hear better than the highest. Minister is putting this into context. I ask them, "What's the top of it?" Ministers in the review of the Association of Tourism, which, as mentioned earlier, is the organization of the most successful business in the country, the most growing, with the most remuneration industry? What's the bottom line? The prime minister that more than a part of the II Parliament's Advisory Committee is going to go against this trade, when the organization suggests that they consider this to be most reprehensible? [[The president calls.]] This is a mission that dishonors the credibility of the employment committee and that natural resources will be watched on a much wider basis than has been done so far and will achieve some long-term planning for the use and protection of the Icelandic environment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u53	A respectable president. First, be sure that you are not right. A senator has twice claimed that this will conflict with the legal process of a frame plan. There is an honorable president, and there is no need to continue such claims. This is simply an adjustment to political intervention of the last government in a professional process, that is no more complicated than that. [[Up front.]] There is evidence that this is, in part, not entirely, being adjusted for the political intervention of the last government in a professional process, such as the Common Union and a number of others pointed back to their time. Of course, in terms of the administration of tourism, there is a very positive reason to rejoice that tourism in the country should perceive and appreciate the importance of protecting nature, which is one of the most natural resources in Iceland and we must protect against it, including. with environmental energy sources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u54	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion. For months, we've been paying the highest fees on the board. Prime Ministers and other government ministers as to what they feel must be done to pay for collective agreements. No answer has ever been made, even being said that it is not the role of the government or the members of the council to intervene in it. Now, the answer is to activate. I find that an amazing way to intervene in collective agreements. Are you going to activate every single time that's gonna flare up a fight in Iceland? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] And will that always be possible? It's a vision of the future, a lot of inspiration around here. Of course, I reject that prospect. I will discuss this in my talk below, don't go far, about the point of the program. I'm the highest. The prime minister to listen to that talk, but I'm going to ask him about it now. The pressure is in a solution. We don't know what cases are actually waiting for, and there are a lot of reports in the media that cases are coming into the council. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, very simple questions. I think it's only fair now that he gives a clear answer, and I'd think it would be news if he didn't make this clear: What matter is coming from the government now at the end of the council? What matters of Congress are on the way? What will the government bring forth? Clear answers are required.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u55	A respectable president. For one thing, it is very strange to hear a word. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, in some way, is deeply opposed to activation and energy production, in view of the nature of the problem, considers it to be an unclean industry. A senator, along with all his party members at the council, is suggesting that energy be exported on a large scale, an energy of some 70 Hagswaters. I don't know how. A senator will do so if he completely fails to attack as much as one more activation of what is now. With regard to additional government opportunities to negotiate, it has been a long time before, and I have been able to answer it for as long as I have. A senator and others have asked that the government was ready to arrange for the company of the labour market in a way that would lead to the success of the collective agreements, but especially to those with intermediate income and less income. There, however, people will have to consider the outcome of those who are involved because they must adapt the way of the State to what comes out of it. As a result, it is impossible for a respectable president to declare in advance that unless someone is seen in the country, the action or introduction of the government will be in a position not to know what the parties agree. In that case, even an addition from the government can add to the potential negative effects of collective agreements. I mean, for the sake of inflation pressure. We do not want that. We want the collective agreements to restore real profit, but we don't want this to happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u56	A respectable president. I don't want to hear about outbacks at the highest. The prime minister of a better future when it comes to energy and resources, it is our policy to get the full price for all the energy we produce, and we do not reject all of the activations. But if we're not going to get a good price for the energy, we're going to turn down all the activations. Yeah, it's our policy. However, the highest response was made. Prime Minister is not my question. That's news to me. There have been enough reports in the media that there is going to be more than one bill of housing, a prime complaint about how to dispose of a currency burglar. I asked the highest. At the end of Congress, the prime minister becomes as clear as what a matter would be going into the council from the government, and he did not answer. Don't you think the mortgages are on their way? Is there a bill about execution not on the way? What, then, are we discussing here in July? Who are the bills coming? [[The president calls.]] The highest. The prime minister tells us right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u57	A respectable president. There is a Constitution of the government as good as any. A senator should be able to familiarize himself easily. But because he specifically asks about two matters, I return my first answer where I tried to explain why. A senator who is yet to come, some of them, may need to consider what is going on in collective agreements, including the housing. It's like the highest. A social and housing minister has explained that the Minister is ready to change the primary projections or to adjust the course of the policy towards the company of the labour market to bring the results of the labour market as large as possible to the homes in the country, and particularly to those in the palaces, those with the lowest income. So, yes, there are cases that are best designed to achieve the most results, especially for people with less income, in connection with signing agreements. [[The president calls.]] As we have seen. Of course, a senator should know of them as well as basic news of the release of the sea. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u58	President. It looks like the highest. The prime minister has managed to become a master of unrealistic expectations, and it is unfortunate that giving people false hope is a bad thing. Now that we've been waiting a long time to see the disposal of a currency stand taken, that has been a well - known title of a ◯ status tax. In the meantime, everything is on fire. Today, partners in VR agreed to have a strike and only at the highest level. A prime minister seems to be offering the box, which is so preposterous that you just don't understand how to reach that conclusion. It may describe a slight disassociation of the nation's activities. No one's called after this, except why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his colleagues. And just so we're all at this council ready to support the reality of whale explosion, so we can't be moved to the point where we're stopping all developments in the country. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the highest priority? Prime Minister? Of the 40 cases now available for the council, what issue is most urgent? Give me five.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u59	A respectable president. I haven't put together any top-5 lists, but all the issues here are important and no reason to do otherwise, but I think we can all finish them, because we have plenty of time for ourselves. We have summer ahead of us, so there will be plenty of time to finish the current and the future. However, it is quite wrong, as it were. A senator claimed that no one is calling for extra energy. You are only shocked to hear a senator speaking in this way. That seems to indicate that there is a problem. A senator is not observing the job position, the state of investment, the position of the employee movement, and its concerns because the necessary activities are not being carried out to ensure the needed energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u60	President. You must have a measure of concern about the lack of policy in response, or non-sponsibly answer, the highest. Prime Minister. It is always such that a higher priority is set out by the government, which matter is most urgent. If the highest. The prime minister does not know what to put first that issue in our life is bad for us. I just want to draw attention to it and ask the highest possible questions. Prime Minister, if he really thinks he has a part of the program here at the council. It would be best to go to the highest. The prime minister would discuss with the chairman of the council whether it should be a summer council or not. Then I'd like to ask if it's the highest. The prime minister will not be supporting the highest level. The secretary of the welfare and the maintenance of her affairs will arrive on the council and will be brought in to get reviews on those matters during the summer so that we can get to see if they can be supported or not answered - and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u61	A respectable president. Now all I did was point out. A senator is aware that the council has plenty of time to complete all the existing issues. Hv. There's no need for a senator to worry about my meetings with the President of the Generals. Of course, we review these matters as they come forward. About questions now. The senator on the premises then answered that it is, of course, planned to bring up a matter of housing, which has the highest priority. Social Affairs Minister would like to consider the development of a workforce, which, in my opinion, is very reasonable. This may help to improve the success of negotiations but at the same time contributes to the submission of the contracts most to those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u62	Mr. President. It's a distraction to hear here at the highest. The prime minister seems to consider housing policy of the Agency Party a change in collective agreements, but it's fine. I have no more than any member of the government opposition has seen the prime minister of housing. It is behind the policy of the introduction of various organizations, all political parties, the parties of the labour market and the Union of Icelandic rural society. More important, similar work was carried out by the same party during the last terms, and direction is virtually the same. In other words, there is a great deal of agreement about these housing policies. V.E.G. A financial minister now argues that the workforce's standards will fall on rocky soil. That's why the Minister had to change his prime projection. If this is true, the question must arise as to whether the bills are in harmony with their policy. So I want to ask the highest. Social and housing minister, if they're right by the top floor. Secretary of finance. Have the bills fallen on rocky soil? Which party, then, was discussed? Have you ever had a discussion with the Personnel Programme, BSRB or BHM, or who are the people who are supposed to be so at odds with the bills? And what is it about the early projections that they disagree with?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir for her inquiry. Like what? A senator went through and knew well as a representative on the project on the future structure of a building plan. There were some suggestions that were involved in the overall housing. However, the proposals for social housing were, as the senator noted, based in part on the proposals that had been shown to increase housing support for smaller families and, especially, those in the rented market. Then came specific implementations on how to change the new housing system, and there were also changes in how the government's support should be done on social housing. That's the basic element of what we've been discussing. I laid down all the bills we've been working on the premises for the group of consultations and said that I was ready to make the necessary changes to make peace and that could be part of our contribution into collective agreements. Two of these primary sites are already in Congress and are being treated by a health committee. Third, we now have a formal cost assessment of the Ministry of finance, and I believe that it is proper for a team of consultations to review the cost assessment and to take note of the indications presented there. Then there is the fourth, the creation bill, that may be a further change in the terms of collective agreements. I would also like to mention that other bills may be submitted following this discussion. Our goal is to build a social structure where we are going to make sure that the entire country's home benefits from the increase in cost and economy, and this is what we've been working on. [[The president calls.]] I hope to some extent this will answer the question of the senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. But it sounds to me that it's only about a process of extraction, but it's not about to be asking for some adjustment in the core. I have to ask myself, " What's the top of it? ' Minister's been doing it for the last year. Why that matter had not been submitted? Why have they entered this process when it was supposed that they were not asked to arrange for the administration of collective agreements? These bills came forward and might have agreed to have had a bearing on the situation and the dissatisfaction of the paymen. But the movie's starting to clear up. I don't think the Independence Party supports this policy. And I'm asking if the advance team will support this policy. A minister has declared that if she does not have the government's backing, she will personally contribute the bills. I say at the top. Minister: Put them forward now. What's taking so long?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u65	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the further question. So I'll just carry on with my answer a little bit, then it's a conversation that's going on now, including... about stock contributions, not about its importance, like what it means. A senator here spoke of building the social housing system with planning and increased housing support, as that is how we agree. It's also been reported since the highest. Prime Minister that it is the same with the government. The discussion for further implementation and how the suggestions can best be supported by collective agreements and economic stability. When we're at the table, everybody needs to be ready to give up something. [[Up front.]] Simply put, the viewpoint of those sitting at the table has not been entirely consistent. There are different priorities for representatives of the different labor movement, between the Union of Icelandic rural society and professional drivers. [[The president calls.]] We are doing our part to reach a conclusion that will be the best for homes in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the focus, for the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u66	V.E.G. President. It is reason to doubt this, after listening to unprepared inquiries, who has been in charge here at the council. That's got to be a lot of concern to worry about. A president we have trusted to have a programmer, and indeed, repeatedly berated for saying so in a way that it was merely being discussed with a frame plan. But after what happened here, I'm going to pray to the highest level. The president took part in the Supreme Court. Prime Minister will attend the discussion. It is obvious that we are going to have much discussion with him on the purpose of this suggestion for a frame plan, that we will be able to know if the above is correct, that there is an introduction to a dress struggle and as well as the interpretation of the number of activaters within a very short period of time should speed up the level of collective agreements. I think this is very important. It is also obvious that there is a reason to pause while waiting for a prime event, since it has also been observed in the highest power. Social and housing minister to await agreements with that issue. Since they must go before the council, we do not know when we will be expecting them and no reason to wait here. Then we can postpone a council until it is in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u67	Mr. President. On the sidelines, me and what. paritaprevir Well, it's a divine Guðbjartur Hannesson, apparently we held the same thing here in a case of the highest order. One prime minister who said during an unscheduled question period that we had summers for ourselves to complete matters of Congress. This is naturally in total opposition to what is at its height. The president has said that this is a work programme. So I'd like to make that suggestion to the highest level. Mr President, he's here to recess at a council meeting for the time being. The prime minister is here in the house, even though he is not here in the hall, or at least not gone too far and to the highest. President and Chief. Prime Minister agree on what can be expected thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u68	A respectable president. It's no good to continue this discussion a bit well. I wish for the highest. The prime minister is here in the hall, as well as the minister of the environment, when we discuss these matters, for the obvious reason that there are men with things that are simply not right and that seem to be not well known enough. That's when I'd also want it to be the highest. A seafaring and agricultural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson because he also said things during the last term of the General Assembly, such as that he did not believe that the Urorcle activation should go to a novelty party, that would be his personal opinion. What Has Changed? There are many such questions I believe we need to have a conversation about. At the same time, I think it's important. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is here for this discussion. The minimum is when such suggestions are presented that at least they are seen in the discussions. So I pray that before this discussion takes place, the members I have appointed will be called here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u69	A respectable president. It was clearly shown here in answer to the highest. Prior to the fact that there are no conferences ready and some emergency action on the government's part of the workforce, which are especially waiting for this strategy discussion to be completed. Both cases are the highest. Ministers here, on the one hand, emissions, and, on the other, the housing, are still in progress, and still in development, it's natural, just fictitious at the highest level. The prime minister who appeared to us in the evening news yesterday, claiming that this was a delay in important matters from the government. They're none. He could only mention the Constitution of the government when he was asked that before any matter of Congress should be brought and set up here. V.E.G. Prime Minister's beginning to remind me more and more of the Knight of Monty Python film who lost one limb after another but kept tearing his mouth off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u70	Mr. President. I said last week under this team, President's conference board, that I believed that this case was a kind of fulfillment material. And in this discussion now, after the words of the highest. Prime Minister, I think it's a sad reality that this case is a reality of fulfillment, as sad as it is today, because men have no affairs ready to enter the council. V.E.G. One prime minister mentions such matters as housing and disposal, both of which are urgent matters that are far from ready. And what releases and anything else, so now I use the word that sometimes runs over lakes here, is doing Congress in this situation? It's not possible. V.E.G. The prime minister must discuss with the council's administration and offer some suggestion on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u71	A respectable president. I agree with my wish that the highest. A prime minister attends the discussion. The reason? The ultimate reason. The President said on lunch news that the frame was the government's priorities and priorities. However, we need explanations on which frame proposal is the priority of the government. Is that a suggestion Sigurður Ingi highest Jóhannsson? ............................ We in the United States are ready to accept it, a proposal for Hombian activation. Is that a suggestion of the highest degree? the current Environment Minister has spoken of an option that is the suggestion plus the other activations of the lower part of the Tube? Then an explanation is needed. Or it's a suggestion. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and most of the professional committees available here? What exactly is the government's priorities? It must be available before continuing on this matter. We must get an explanation here so that the discussion can continue with the discussion on what the government really stresses. [[The president calls.]] Where has it been discussed? Has this been discussed at a government meeting? Has the government come to a formal conclusion about this? We need to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u72	Mr. President. It's obvious that there's some misunderstanding here, so that word is now used, both at the highest level. Prime Minister and as much of each other. The employment committee that transports the changes made to a frame plan. The story is wrong. I'm next on the speaker's list when the case gets started, and I wish that the audience will be the highest. Environment Minister, highest. Prime Ministers and circuits change the motion because I will speak in memory, review the whole career, and it is very important that the members I listed here be present and listen to the talk, and if they want to explain further. Here, people are wrong, and it's serious in such a big matter as the frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u73	A respectable president. To be clear, I consider three months far more than enough to prepare for the next council, and therefore I will not complain that this will be a summer council, let alone that the council will be extended. What I wonder, though, is whether a respectable president of the United States himself is pleased to say twice that he is on the President's throne that nothing was decided for a summer council, but it's the highest. Prime Minister, who corrects him and not merely offers him to a summer assembly, acts as if he's made the decision, has been made. To make the form for a respectable president, the President of the Generals, all members of Congress. As a result, the council and the government are to be somehow separated. I wondered if a respectable president himself would be pleased with the supreme. Prime Minister, come to the high General Assembly and to the task force of a respectable president. Is a respectable president satisfied with this from the bottom of the section? Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u74	A respectable president. It's a strange situation. After asking the question period to the minister, there are, in effect, more questions left than the answer to the supreme question. The prime minister has taken the initiative to have outbacks, lawsuits, and stupid jokes in response to the objective questions of members of Congress. The fact that the council and Iceland have to live with such a prime minister is beyond any way he can deny himself for a spin, a fool's joke, and a seminaric exercise. It's just an independent problem in Iceland today to have a prime minister like that. Then he comes here and corrects the President of the Generals, who has explained that the Council's Work Programme is on hold - and what? No, it will be a summer assembly, says the same. [[The president calls.]] This is intolerable, since unless we can clearly see that the council has independence from such a project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u75	V.E.G. President. I'm telling you, I don't have anything to go to the conference board. President to put that in great order. On the other hand, I comment that there is a public speaker under this point and that the material discussion calls for a material discussion, not allowing the matter to be on the program, to hold the council hostage for the liturgies of government opposition. This is just the situation at the council today. This is a press conference on the side of the government that speaks blue in front of the President's meeting board, which is clean. [[Up front.]] I once again present the best suggestion for the chairman of the United States to start counting heads and finding the position of the councilmen against the subject that is on the program. This will be done by the conclusion of the discussion at the Assembly Hall and then taking the matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u76	V.E.G. President. I come up here to say that I'm surprised at the conference board that I've taken this matter into consideration and that I'm letting the council upset what it is. There is little to it, though. The members of the government come in here and tell them we have this hostage. It's not at all. They have this situation totally without obligation. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage more of the employment committee to retract this adjustment, to stick to the original proposal, and to allow the project management to finish their work. This is so that she gets back early next year, at the beginning of the next year. Isn't that right, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson? It's just that way. I urge you to pull her back and leave peace in this country because everything in this country is on fire. I don't think it's an intelligent introduction to the robot struggle to say that the key to solving a bounty struggle is to activate. I've never heard such nonsense, Mr. President, in a country where all the industry are on a bullshit twist.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u77	Mr. President. The key point is the natural frame, like the highest. The prime minister speaks of this. The key point is that there is a firm grip on the content and long-term policy development when it comes to large issues such as how the energy should be adjusted, what should be activated, and what to protect. This case is on the agenda, but I'm asking the president to take it off the program, as any senators in the hall agree, because if the change in the motion of this council resolution is accepted, the box has been broken, the way has been adopted by all paid votes during the last term to make peace with long-term policy development. If the frame is broken, we don't have it. Then we have to get going to make a frame. There are more professional and better ways in the north to find peace in a labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u78	A respectable president. I agree with those who have spoken from the government and described their wonder and, of course, dissatisfaction that this matter is being planned. It is worth reviewing and asking for the position of the senators who now serve as ministers and who sit on the President's chair from the last council, which included their hearings in the millions. Bjarni son of Benediktsson says that he knows that the lower part of the Red Sea is one of the major issues here, and he is all taken up from the Council of Congress. I believe that there may have been some viewpoints, especially with regard to Urfyrofos, which were reasons for further consideration. Says Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson: "Let the king's kiss lie in part for a while because he is truly a controversial one. What does this have to do with it? Councilmen on this matter now? [[The president calls.]] Why don't they talk about it? Why do they allow themselves to put the matter on a schedule so disgruntled with so many people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u79	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister had been talking about collective agreements, and it would be a good entry into collective agreements to complete this case and go to the continuum transfunctioners below. I would find it interesting to know if the labor movement, whether it is BHM, the Common Union, or the Personnel Department, has concluded something to suggest that it is being encouraged to contribute now to the development of collective agreements. Then there must be a call from this large organization or one who is in a strike. For example, have called from animal doctors to Prime Minister to hurry up to implement this program with a change in schedule. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son? Or radiologists or staff at a gas station west on the beach? [[The president calls.]] No, I think he needs to prove that this call has been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u80	A respectable president. Here, drawing out more clearly that this case is being planned to hide the complete failure of the government in its visible tasks and activities. You need nothing more than to watch communications between Ministers inside the government to realize that there's no coordination, no job management, no conversation on what to do, how these matters should be handled, etc. V.E.G. A prime minister needs to think beyond the box in the varied sense of their words. There is no way to upset the council with these proposals at the same time that the smaller part of the council has expressed itself ready to have a conversation with the greater part about how to bring, for example, some package that is likely to help with the workforce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u81	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. The president may have requested that the Environment Minister and Prime Minister be present at this discussion. I think it's so much off the wrong track that I think it's important that we all stay here and have a conversation about this matter. If this is the priority of the government, it must be here and take the discussion with us. It is also remarkable how people somehow try to draw up the image that this is the great government of action and that the remaining government has been inactive in the matter when it was only accidentally set out in the third hundred megawatts during the last term. We can look at "Branches and " Hellishes'activations, and they started a project in the north too. This discussion does not improve. There is no way to hide yourself behind some falsehood. You have to come here and have a conversation about the rules of the game. That's what we're protesting here, that men are going wrong with them as strongly as they really are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u82	The president has already presented wishes to three ministers, and two ministers are in a house, that they will already be here to discuss the third session.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u83	A respectable president. I think there's a point where we're becoming aware that everyone is becoming aware that there's not enough work to be done in the Board of Directors and there's no outside front for Iceland's government, but it's so unfortunate that in spite of a strong body of Congress, 38 votes here in Congress, there's no problem either. You can talk right here after the Ministerial Class and go over the trouble issues of every Minister in this government, and no one will to bring it to its end, because there is no prerogative. The same incorruption, called Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, U.S.A. Prime Minister, is also assigned to interact with the government's opposition on what should be scheduled, how to complete this assembly, etc. [[The president calls.]] It's May 19, today, the work schedule is over next week, and the situation has become very unveiled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u84	President. This was shown in the query class with the highest value. Prime Minister that there is absolutely no work management with this government. I think it's very serious, we're in line with the work programme at the end of this council and the highest. The prime minister could not reveal the priority of the government. No meeting has been announced as to what should be put first, and it is clear that the government really has no policy. And that may be because, whatever the person says, there is much conflict in the parties. You're a pretty nice person to read in the atmosphere, and nothing gets by anyone who has a nose for that. I'd like that, yeah. President, that this meeting will be delayed, and it will be immediately announced to the meeting of the classes in which it will be most demanding. Prime Minister, this will be a summer assembly without consultation with the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u85	A respectable president. Directors have spoken up in a chair and complained that this will not be a discussion of the President's conference board. I object. There's a discussion on the President's conference board, the program in more detail, and all this paperwork. That's what this is for. Only on the President's conference board, the president now seated, who is now the president of the council. On December 13, 2012, a proposal was submitted by force. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son to activate Urnar deactivation, Impulse reactivation, Holtation, Scorpiotic activation, the same as here are discussed under the same procedure as this. Councilman today, along with Sharkization. With him on this suggestion, there was one other reason. A senator and now I'll give you a clue. The dog. A senator is also sharp. 2.m. Witchest. "The President of the Parliament, Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God. Doesn't it matter? Under some other circumstances, would this be called fitting? If we are going to discuss a meeting with the president, let's discuss whether this arrangement is above normal, whether we can agree on the program under this procedure. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u86	President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son certainly has a great point when he doubts about a proper President for ruling in this regard. The suggestion to be here for discussion has an adjustment made by him along with the director of the professional trade committee. It's called in a foreign language. I'm sorry, Lieutenant. Mr. President, I'm afraid, and that's not a good thing. I was mainly going to discuss about things that seem to come between the council president and the prime minister of the government. The Prime Minister seems to have some threat to members of Congress that it will be a summer council. I don't think there's any senator here who's not ready to attend the summer council. [[The president calls.]] However, we need to know what to discuss during this summer council. I think the prime minister must, before he speaks much more of a summer council, come up with a program for the summer council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u87	Mr. President. I can say with what. paritaprevir In this regard, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. There have been many comments that can't be criticized. A senator, Mr. Guðfinnsson Kristinn Directorsson, the highest. President. He does not accept the decision of the Environment and Resource Ministry, and in the light of what was read earlier, it is entirely reason to believe that the decision is political rather than chemical, and based on agreement with the council or there for the members who are fully impartial in this view. There's been a lot of senators here, or too few of them, who might, but some of them, who have crashed us under the supervision of President. For what? paritaprevir During the last term, Hauksdóttir Hauksdótti, opposed her decision to agree with the viewpoint shown in the speech of the senator she was speaking to in answer to insurrection of the Uryrossian, that it was probably a matter of protecting her during further investigation. [[The president calls.]] What Has Changed? What studies have led the senator to support the activation today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u88	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Kálsdólsdóttir pointed out some points about the situation at the General, which I agree with. But there's one thing I can't agree with, and it's about the President's conference board. There is now a material discussion about what took place during the study period earlier today, and this is not normal. Such discussions are to be stopped. These words were made plain: It does not result from continuing this discussion. It was referred to in a material discussion. There are many good things we need to come to the council, many good things that have been taken out of committees but that we cannot get through 2nd. Is it not reasonable if the government council intends to talk about the President's conference board that there will be a meeting until the summer? [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u89	Mr. President. V.E.G. The President makes a decision on the program for a meeting. Therefore, discussions about the program are nothing more than discussions about the President's conference board. When a body of Congress is strongly opposed to the fact that there is a certain subject on the program, it is still on the agenda that those who are contrary to the action will have no choice but to object to the fact that the matter is on the agenda. There's talk about the President's conference board and nothing else. Then, when members of Congress need to reason on why the matter is not on the agenda, it may be right. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son to a material discussion, but in this case, it is impossible to back up this position. Senators. So I allow myself to disagree completely with basics. paritaprevir And in this matter, in the hand of Horhor the son of Þórhallsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u90	A respectable president. I had no intention of speaking further about the President's conference board, but because the senators here sing the same song for a material discussion, I have to say that it is entirely wrong. One man has prepared for a material discussion under the supervision of President's conference board today, and that is why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. Others have made comments to the chairman of the council's decision on how the program should be conducted and called after the presence of a minister in the light of the Supreme Court's proclamations. The President in the noon news today... that the cover-up was the government's priorities. There is no part of the program but a discussion about the President's conference board to deliver messages like this. Of course, I think I can see why we're here. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's horrhall to dissipate his comrade from the board, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who is like me, the only man who has raised a material discussion under the supervision of the President today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u91	Mr. President. Now it becomes clear that a material discussion of this subject will begin again. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir is next to the speaker's list, and she has specifically requested the Supreme Court. The Environment and Resource Minister is in the audience during her speech. The past appeared on top of the highest level. The president that three advisers have been notified of these wishes. Two people are in the house, and I'd like to ask the highest. President: is the highest. The head of state and resource in the house, and will she be here to hear the case of the senator who has specifically requested it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u92	The president has earlier mentioned that an invitation has been sent to the minister who was requested to be present at the beginning of the third session. The President knows that he's at the highest. Environment and resource minister is here. On the other hand, the president has been sent to the ears to the highest level. Marine and agricultural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, also known as absent today. V.E.G. Secretary of finance is not in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u93	A respectable president. It is normal in itself that people would like to discuss the President's conference management if they have something to do with the Generalis program. It is also natural for a person to ask for a discussion, but if man does not agree on the Athlellis program, does not the greater part become available and perhaps the President of the Generals, that he has the authority to conduct a meeting and can bring up the subject that the greater part feels urgent? I listed here and see how the first three talks and more of the talks I listened to here were a call for continuation of a discussion that took place during the General News Study period. That is not normal, and that is what the president of Generalis is about to stop. [[Do you want...?]] [[Set up the schedule.]] Under these circumstances, Presidential conference management is not to be discussed in a material discussion as the government has done, not just now, but in recent days and weeks, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u94	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir As long as the members of the House of Þórhallsson's House for information do not stop at all for the information, while the members of the council are keeping themselves on objective, I expect, as members of this hall enjoy freedom of speech to discuss the program and determine for themselves whether it is sufficiently discussed in the order of the program. Of course, it gives full reason to discuss the meeting program when prime minister weathers the President of the Generals and announces changes to the work program that the President of the Council has made without any decisions and no discussion has been made on the Senate presiding committee and gives a very special reason to discuss the meeting of the president with this team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u95	President. I feel that it is very serious, as the subject of the program queries to the minister at the highest level. Prime Minister feels that he has a part of the program at the General Assembly. No meetings have been announced by members of the council in which members of the council are reviewed as to whether there is a basis for spending for a summer council. We received no answers as to whether the mortgage bills are due to enter the council, how it goes with the reimbursement of the so - called stable tax, which sounds extremely beautiful, but it is not known whether stability will help. The government has no way of dealing with the terrible conditions here, except for the President's program. I think it's very serious. We need to find time to open up the council to the important issues that the government will preach if it has any important issues. The problem, however, is that she has no issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u96	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a synopsis proposal to change the synopsis of the strategy for national protection and energy use and to propose the highest proposal. Environment Minister to put the whale reactivation into a colony following proposal of a project management. It is a professional assessment of the task management board to suggest that Inducation will become a novelty class but that it is requested to classify other waiting activation options until further inspection has taken place. Mr. President. I've asked for the highest. The secretary of the environment is listening to my speech, and she is now in the hall. I'd love to go to the highest. Prime Minister also listens to my speech, but he is not here. I hope he is listening, at least one of his assistants. There is none in the chamber of the assembly, none of them at all. Senators who are moving the motion. What is disputed with the synonym is the suggestion that politicians put themselves in charge of a professional assessment and put together a grouping of activation options. They're what they were. Senators who have expressed themselves, some of them, have said that it's okay to do this because the last government has opposed the spirit of a frame plan. So it's okay for them to do the same and the highest. At that meeting, the prime minister earlier said that the work was being done during the last terms. Therefore, Mr. President, I object, and for this reason I would like to cross and trace the process that took place in the Council's Reunion Act adopted in January 2013. The aim of the protection and energy efficiency programme is to ensure that the implementation of land areas for which activation is based is based on long-term and the overall basis of stakeholders of interest, taking into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, efficiency and profitability of different national and national resources, as well as the interests of those who use these same benefits with sustainable development to guide them. The protection and energy efficiency programme, in accordance with law No. 48/2011, assessments of national and economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection. On the basis of this, the framework of a policy framework is designed to determine whether areas where activation can be used for energy efficiency or whether there is a reason for peacelining it or further analysis. Activation options are stratified into energy generation, protection party and waiting party. At baseline there were 84 activation options for checking within the frame management programme, of which 17 activation options are not listed as they do not fall under the Law No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme. Thus, in total, the synonym accepted during the last term of 67 activations was stratified according to the law of No. 48/2011. In accordance with their regulations, on August 19, 2011, the Parliament's resolution proposal was presented and sent to an open twelve - week review and consultation process. In addition, the review process of environmental assessment of the synonym that had been carried out in accordance with the law of No. 105/2006, the environmental assessments. In view of the information presented in the review procedure, changes were made in the draft of a synonym submitted on August 19, 2011. First, two activations, Eyjadal wound activation, and Whoville were taken out of the program where it was found that they fell outside the scope of the protection and energy efficiency programme. Second, there were six activations in two areas, Urras reactivation, Holtation, Impulse reactivation, Cavitation, Post-Service I and High-Service I, not assigned to a novelistic class, as expected and therefore are in a waiting category with reference to specific precautions and new information. In addition, in the synonym, several factors involved in sulphur pollution and deforestation are proposed, information due to Hag water activation, as well as a closer geographical delimiteration is defined for the activation of the fluctuation neck. The regulations of the Law No. 48/2011, on a protection and energy efficiency programme, which law was agreed together at the General Assembly. Thus, there was no disagreement with the legal process. On July 5, 2011, the project director returned his final report to the minister's Framework Programme. The report is entitled: Results of the 2nd Article of a Framework Programme. It is important to note that this report does not contain the classification of the activation options considered by the task management board, i.e. The activation options were not grouped to energy generation, waiting party or protection party, but to order the activation options, i.e. One is a system of protection from a point of view and from a system of things. Thus, the results of project management from July 5, 2011 are not in the form of a synonym for the classification of activation options to a new category, a waiting party, or a protection party. Thus, the report is not that it could be submitted to the General Assembly as a synonym for the classification of activation options. Therefore, on the basis of information and development in the report of the Management Board, following July 5, 2011, it was followed by the premeditation of the four professionals who were involved in the report and representative of the Ministry of Ministry and the Environment, in the form of a synonym in the form of a synopsis on a protection and energy efficiency program, in which the General of the General concluded on the implementation of the measures for energy management party, order and protection party. The work ended in August 19 of August, and on August we noted that the Parliament's resolution proposal was presented and sent in the 12 - week legal process, as mentioned earlier. After the review procedure, a detailed review of the 225 envelopes received was made to determine if there were any new information to be taken into account, as per law, on the final discharge of the Parliament's resolution. The conclusion was that it was, and necessary changes were made in the direction of the existing Parliamentary decree and the document was set up for contributions at the General Assembly. The whole process was in accordance with law No. 48/2011 and the suggested methodology, which was done thoroughly in the process of reviewing industrial committees and environmental committees on the bill that then became legal. In addition, the work programme carried out is fully in line with the provision of the European Treaty, which was implemented at the end of the last year's Icelandic national rights, which include increasing participation in environmental decision-making by the public. In the Parliamentary decree adopted in January 2013, after a total of 141 district talks and 858 comments, or a total of 1st. a series of 45 hours, six activation options were transferred from the energy efficiency category to the waiting category in order to the Congress resolution proposed. With regard to the transfer of these activation options, I would like to point out that law No. 48/2011 makes it clear what evidence justifys the inclusion of activation options to a waiting party. This is not to say that a waiting group is a storage for controversial activation options that will not be taken into consideration. A waiting party, according to Article 5. The law puts only activation options where it is thought that there will be more information to determine whether or not they should fall into a energy supply or a protection party. Therefore, if the activation option is fully investigated and the available data are adequately evaluated, it should be classified into a energy response class or a protection party. In a paper with a bill that became a law, No. 48/2011, it is emphasized that in the waiting category, the activation options considered by the Generals are not deemed to be in each of the above categories where available data and information do not suggest sufficient significance to either category of activation initiatives to fail. It's very important that we do this here. Those who are now considering whether to support the changes made by a major part of the employment committee should keep this in mind and read the report carefully with the laws on which that decision is based. In the process of review, there were truly new information, i.e. in the subheading process started in the fall of 2011, with regard to a series of six activations, it was considered that with the new data, available data and information would not be conclusive enough to indicate that each category of activation options should have failed. From Section 5. So the law and the precautions behind this law were set up by the six priming options of a waiting party. Regarding the new information received during the procedure for this six activation option, they are subject to the potential effects of the activation in the lower part of salmon feeder ulcers in the river. This includes the effects of the European Commission in particular and the lack of sufficient data available to the project management. However, during the work of the project management, the activation initiatives, rock activation and I and II, have not been evaluated in the waters of Lake Earth's national park. It is an international reference aimed at ensuring that the protection of the peace-lit region is not impaired by activities in the adjacent areas. The new information received during the reporting process could not be overlooked and, therefore, the preferred activation options were not classified as a novelty in the final version of the Parliament's resolution. In response to a church resolution proposal that is in force, a new project management will continue to work with the delayed activation options and determine if there is a reason to suggest a proposal for a changed category in accordance with the law. The specific studies proposed in Þjótur will be carried out by a new project management and a new proposal based on their results. A new proposal will also take into account the effectiveness of the activation initiatives in the marine habitat, the new information on Hag water activation, and the events of other factors relating to waiting mechanisms. The 67 activation initiatives adopted in January 2013 are thus divided between the energy generation, the waiting party and the protective group that 16 activations are in the high energy category, 31 in the waiting category, and 20 in the protection category. Estimated energy efficiency in energy efficiency is 8.5 teravats, 12.5 waiting classes, and a protection class of 11.3. In view of these statistics, current energy generation in Iceland is about 17 hours. And I also remind you that the aim of a frame plan is to promote greater peace and protection, content to protect land protection and energy use, to protect wisely and wisely. The work of experts, players, and politicians has been spent for over two decades since 1995. In fact, the trip may have started in 1993, and maybe we can still look back, but the formal process has lasted for 20 years. It is completely irresponsible, President, and misreaded by a greater part of the employment committee and the current administrative part of breaking the process and ignoring its foundations. You see, there will be a day after that day, and it needs to be done well for a long time. Here we are, a respectable president, discussing a six-whump change proposal. Councilmen on a job board, who are going to review the results of a project administration. According to a legal process, the task management suggests that one activation will be classified into a colony of those she specifically considered and that it should be specifically considered with the message that it takes longer to evaluate the other benefits. Why, then, are we not waiting for the conclusion of the work management? You see, there is no provisional principle, such as when a decree of Congress was proposed in a review process at the time. That was only when this was done for the first time, but now it is 3. and 10th par. track No. 48/2011, which takes over the procedure and is being broken by the modification proposal. It is very important that it be drawn back, and here we get senators to vote for the Supreme Court proposal. Environment Minister, who follows the procedure well and is acceptable to all. Of course, there are many opinions about whether it should be activated or protected, but the idea behind the frame plan was that with a good professional estimate and good process of transnational trust, everyone will be able to determine how we're going to manage things, because it is very important for the energy companies to plan for the future and to see what energy opportunities lie ahead. But it is also very important to have a peaceful process and to go through the process with the initiatives to protect. I'd also like to mention that on rural areas the legal obligation to take into account the framework in its main structure. The main organization is to be completed until 20 years of age. It is not to camp until one night. So there should be no race here, we are working here with the nation's resources, and we need to think beyond the terms of the Government's Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnla.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u97	President Hithv. Thank you. A candidate for a good and extensive discourse that covered the facts and facts, as if it were about the reason. A senator who was serving in the last government then came into this matter. I was also involved in this case, as I was in Project Management of Framework 2. I love what you're doing. A senator here corrected that it was the task management that organized, because it has been made clear in the case of a number of members of the council who have spoken here that we as members of the project board had been classified. It wasn't. But not so. A senator to find that when the last government's proposal of the framework came into operation, there was a great debate over the changes made by the Ministers, i.e. Delegated from the proposals of the group that divided our order in the project management. There was a lot of controversy at the council because we, as then in government opposition, felt that the Ministers were running away from the process we thought we agreed to go. I remember doing a lot of speeches here that we set off on this road to try to get ourselves involved with politics, to finally establish some longer-term process, bridge the gap between those who want to use and protect and find balance. It didn't work. It failed because of this intervention from the advisers who submitted these suggestions. I'd like to ask you what. The senator, whether the story that appeared to us in a fine book or not. paritaprevir Össur's wistful Skarphéðinsson that this was part of a political horse trade between the classes that were then in government, is not a reason to back up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u98	Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator asks if it was a political horse trade. My answer is: When the Ministers responsible for this matter went over the comments presented at 225 C.E., we put aside the comments that were discussed in a case that the project management had previously discussed. There were new questions, and of course we wondered what to do with that new information. Was there any possibility of evaluating them? And the conclusion was that to be faithful in the process, to avoid violating the great work done and done. A senator knows well, would not the politicians accept and evaluate the information and sort it, but would be held in a waiting category, which is the very place for activation of questions to be answered? That's what the waiting party is for. As soon as all the questions are answered, the benefits should be sorted out. Of course, a lot of people wanted to influence the process. This is natural when there is great interest. But I strongly deny that the Ministers responsible for the case had a political horse trade, which allows us to give sound reasons for the results brought into the council. We are not to be blamed for the fact that the greater part was standing here in a pit and giving a thousand talks. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u99	I'm guessing, chief. President, the senator meant that the government had given these thousand talks. I remember giving a few talks on that occasion, and there I used just the exact same words as that. A senator here uses his talk, perfectly irresponsible proposal, comes a day after this day, thinking beyond one terms. That's where we are. I was very uncomfortable with this conclusion during my last term. I believe that this was the fundamental point behind all the hard work over the 20 years that our main experts and us, some of the players who were involved in the project management work, have been involved. How tragic it was to experience the times during the council as well as to experience the attempt to bring us up above the political character and to view the subject rather and to the long future a failure! [[The president calls.]] What a disappointment that was!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u100	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator feels that because politicians did not take sides, they self-checked information that professionals had not studied and put the priming option into a waiting party from a basic frame principle, how do you feel? A senator, then, about to accept the promotion of a waiting party and to become a member of his own party? What's that, then, topv? President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. All I want to do is get the salmon stock into Þjójódra and the precautions that humans want to take in the materials to prevent the activation of the lower part of the group from causing the salmon and the trout stock, the plant, to be compromised. We know that this is one of the largest salmon species in the country. That's exactly what happened. A senator mentioned that men were taking into account the facts, so he waited for these benefits to be considered for further investigation. Now, according to many reviews, the research is not yet available, the benefits of these instruments, and at Veterans Institutes, it shows that if the counter-react actions fail, the subspecies, which have not been experienced in Iceland, the salmon population may be at high risk and that 88% of them could be at risk for Uryrofos and 52% in Holta activation. Counts 'em out. A senator acceptable this procedure without any investigation and taking this great risk to the salmon population in Þjórða? There has also been a warning from the National Protection Fund of wild salmon, Orri Vigfússon, who has been in charge there, and has long called for a lack of vital basic information in Landing. Counts 'em out. A senator's lack of support for the fact that this would be delayed has not yet been valid? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What we faced was the fact that the information and reviews back then included: It was claimed that the ecosystems in the river would be permanently damaged, mostly in the area of fish. There would be a flow disturbance in almost all the river, or 97%, the life conditions of insects would get worse and biting would not exist. There would be unfortunate changes in water flows for salmon fish, initial production would be largely reduced, change in oxygen and supply of nutrients, inducers would destroy spawning sites, and loss of natural processes, and rapid extinction. These are the key points presented in the reviews, which did not provide sufficient evidence to be well explored. These questions were raised, and thus the activation initiatives were not classified, since, in fact, we have only two categories, that are a category and a protection party. Then we have a group of initiatives that need to be examined and considered. I'd like to wait for a professional evaluation. As politicians start to say, "Listen, I'm just blowin' this thing, and I've decided to do it myself, it's coming out of the wind, and that's what trust is. Of course, we should follow the procedure and not ignore the results of a project management. The results of project management show that it was certainly not for good reason that these activation options were added to a waiting party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It has also been discussed that tourism is a major stake in this whole matter. It is called on the interests of big-time industry that require more energy and the interests of tourism, which require to be handled with care in the land and in the use of the land and in order to have legal ways in the matter, that these benefits go into the project, but are not captured at the General Assembly. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator's view of this and also of the opinion of young people on the subject. Young people on the banks of Dura, as they call themselves under a review, are critical that their future is being determined by decisions today to activate the campaign in this way, not by the benefits of being in that area in another way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u104	Mr. President. To be honest, when I looked at the Ten News last night and the Supreme News. One prime minister began to talk about the changes we are discussing with a frame plan, which is why we are discussing this matter. I'm surprised to learn that there are good comments from the travel agency in the process of making these adjustments. The prime minister speaks this way about a job that has created most new jobs, and he speaks of it as just a major industry and energy - efficient industry. I'm surprised. In fact, we have nothing to do with the workforce of this highest. Governments, but it may be expressed in the stated words of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister on the Ten News last night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for reviewing this process all along, of course, as she played a significant role in molding it. True, it is true. A senator came here to see that this was an attempt to lead a conflict in Icelandic politics in a way that we could agree on. Of course, once the Law on Framework was adopted unscrupulously in 2011, we are shocked to see that now that we are working or discussing this proposal - let's hope that it will not be finished - a completely different understanding is presented. The Parliament's law depends on whether it involves more parts or less. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, for it certainly seems that we are in - well, we are in trouble in this discussion. I'm thinking that the proposal can't go through the way it looks now, i.e. The proposal from a greater part of the employment committee. I think it's being passed over legal procedures, and I already think it's a responsibility to make the highest possible number. According to the prime minister, he believes that this proposal and its payment are key to increasing the value of human wealth and solving of collective agreements, as presented here today and yesterday's news reports. What Solution Is Possible? I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees what she sees in it. I don't think this adjustment proposal can go through the same thing. But does some way in which the code of law needs to be explained? Or we may simply need to sit down and review the laws written in order to ensure a common understanding of the law, a common understanding of the law. The members of the less part and those who have written opinions from the employment and innovation services on the other hand and the Environmental and Resource Ministry, which is clearly quite different from those in need. Senators of the greater part represent? What explains that understanding? Is this such another objective understanding? [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u106	Mr. President. I'm certainly worried about the position that has come up, because it's very obvious that if the adjustment of the more part of the employment company will be accepted then there's no frame in force, there's no trust and all this work is gone and everything's gone. I really don't think that's going to happen. That's why I'm ready to protest here over and over again, review these cases over and over again, review the spirit of the law, review the environmental Ministry's conclusions, I'd like to say, "until the administrative part realizes the seriousness of the situation, because there seems to be some kind of lightness behind the proposals that are here. First, these suggestions are made in the second issue. The Parliament's smell. There is no way to reexamine the matter in this room. It's just to vote and settle things, and it's about a matter of great importance. It is final once something has been added to the energy class and the process is started, it is difficult to take back. But all this process is being violated. We are truly in trouble when we are at the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Environment Ministers are not only about the proportion of the majority of the sectoral organisations, but we are in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think it's a very important thing she comes here to, i.e. that there's light room around the form we approved here in the law. Maybe it has something to do with five out of six. The members of the greater part of the employment committee that sign the majority opinion did not sit here at a church meeting when the laws on the frame plan were agreed, nor did they sit here at the council when we agreed on the Senate resolution 63:0 that we were going to improve our plans at the General Assembly, that we were going to change the politicians, and that we were going to listen to a more professional candidate. That's why you don't really understand what's going to happen. Congress officials believe that it is normal to walk past a legal process and put themselves in the position of making a professional assessment of the methods of activation below. Hv. A senator earlier said she thought it was so serious, that it was so serious that we could, in fact, say that the law on a frame plan was gone before a car. Counts 'em out. A senator that is not really a reason to try to settle the matter, that more things and smaller things have to sit over it, because we can't stand here for weeks and talk about it? [[The president calls.]] At the same time, however, we cannot turn aside the requirements that we must make for the assembly to conform to the laws, laws, and regulations of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u108	Mr. President. Of course, it may be beneficial to sit down over the matter and examine it from all sides. We've called here for President's conference board to lead the council, avoid the political parties that are here at the council, sit down and cross it. However, the matter is not so growing that some negotiations can be handled materially, and that may be the problem. You cannot reconcile: Well, maybe we should, you know. - As soon as the politicians are starting to say, "Well, you'll get this activation if I get the others, it's as much a violation of this process as more part of the employment committee is proposed. So we're in real trouble, but of course I think the President of the Generals should gather people to review the case and see if they can't figure out the spirit of the law and maybe look up the General Report that speaks of legalism but that less is applied to the spirit of law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u109	A respectable president. I'm not against activation. I am very proud of the many activation projects the Iceland has undertaken. I'm very proud that we will warm up our homes in a environmental way and that we will be able to offer environmentally clean, renewable energy. I'm very proud of this. Moreover, there was no debate over fortresses, such as Achievement, the latest activation ever built. The lentil island of Falls, Burgundy, and Siglda are all the fancy fortresses and great engineering achievements. Let's get this straight. The words and debates we have are not about that some just don't want to activate, nothing, and that others want to activate everything. It's about us trying to do something reasonable. I remember the fact that at the time of the General Assembly, very many in this society crossed the line in my opinion and in my opinion, at the time of the General Assembly. It was when it was decided here to activate the Meriad Chickens. This was done by means of a special bill. There was no frame plan, it was done contrary to all the advice available then. This was certainly not a desired activation option, and many said at the time that, based on all income calculations and on what was to be done with all this energy, it was not an intelligent project, and many pointed to the vast natural damage that would take place there. I'm sorry for the nature that was destroyed at the Merians. I think Meriadiffry and all that talk, all that talk, all that work will leave an open wound in the people's soul. I remember going through there looking at these natures and seeing the falls. There were spectacular waterfalls we'll never see again, they're gone forever, and also the camera my friend dropped into one of the falls. It was an unforgettable sight, and it is an untainted natural force that was destroyed. I'm one of those people who thought that this was a totally out of hand with the discussion of valuable things, increased economic growth, and the need for us to get all of this into value. I felt that this society was about to sell the baby for the diapers. It made me feel like we'd cross the line. That is the limit we always need to find in this discussion. It's a unique land that we have, amazing nature, often quite amazingly raw, but it gives you power. We all know this. It's amazing how the natural nature of Iceland makes you feel. It's our foundation here. It's what we have. We have sometimes crossed the line, and in the interest of economic growth and valuable things, we have come from this foundation, virtually to our own satisfaction, living here. I hoped in the aftereffects of Meriah and all the quarrels that happened to them, in many respects unquenchable, that these matters would go in a more reasonable way. As early as 1995, working on this process called in the daily framework plan, based on the idea that the only way to approach such an intense emotional dispute among the nation is to build on information, to build democracy, to design some process of professional sewing on the basis of countless factors, that we allow the public to have rich access to what to be the primacy, what we want to protect for life and age, and what to do better research. Laws on this process were adopted here with all agreed votes, and that was a major breakthrough. What we're discussing right now is if we're going to let all that work, all this process, totally up into the air. That's what we're talking about right now. This is what we have to do with the adjustment of more part of the employment committee. That's where this process is completely bypassed. This procedure involves not just the old procedure, where there were prime warnings about individual activations but much worse, if this is still possible, the priming options can be determined by a change in other cases. It is completely ridiculous and unacceptable, so we protest it, of course, that are now in my part of the council. What happened during the last term? It is sometimes said in our discussion that these matters have been launched during the last term. First, I find it surprising to say that if something has been done wrong during the last term, it's the right thing for the next person to do too. I'm experiencing goals with political involvement completely different. I think it's important not to repeat the mistakes of others, at least is not justification for my actions that someone else has made mistakes, and it is my right to make mistakes too. If some mistake had actually been made during the last term, it would still be an amazing case. Why not try to get into the gaps, learn from the mistakes, and do the right thing now? Also, it is from time to time that something has been done wrong during the last term. That's the basic thing about the structure and our relationship with nature, I'd say, giving her the benefit of the doubt. I participated in the discussions here during the last term on a frame plan, where it was certainly assumed in the proposed higher part of the administration that priming options suggested to enter a novelty party were made up of a waiting party because there were all kinds of information after 225 applications received the Ministry. What was to be done in that situation? That is a question that everyone must face that will be involved in this discussion right now. What was to be done in that situation? The Project Management Board had suggested that priming options, including lower part of During the Year, be joined by a colony. It was followed by a legal process with all of this, reviews were received, strong arguments were given in some of the reviews, with strong reasoning that the salmon stock in the Þjódraðum would be in danger if it was attacked by these inducers. What was to be done at this point? To say: No, no, no, the salmon population is in danger. We're just gonna pull this off? Is it the right way to nature in this environment, in which we debate so much about where to activate and where to protect? What was that about? This was about the fact that the greater part of the last terms decided to take a closer look and simply to put this activation option to rest. I remember the discussion here. You had to keep harping on the past less part of the council that these activation options were not being put in protection, it would not be excluded forever that they would have been activated, they would have been suspended. 16 other activation initiatives in the synonym were of the Neoengineering category. It was good, wasn't it? Couldn't the salmon farm be given in Þjórður, one of the most important things in the world? Couldn't he enjoy the doubt? Why not? And then what was done? So it was specifically directed to the project management that it hurried to settle these issues accurately and to answer the precise questions about these inducers. Will they affect the salmon population irreversibly? Now, all I'm talking about is the activations of the lower part of Turbulence. This is what happened. It's all upset. These were not proposed irreparable changes in nature. The project was agreed to have further research, so it was directed to the Management of the project to speed it up. After the Environment Minister's further request for the Commission to complete the precise research, we were faced with the fact that the project's management had just completed its discussion and had completed its professional evaluations and research on one of these activations, Involvement. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. Environment Minister. It is well explained how the current environmental minister continued this relationship with the project management, requested that these studies be completed, and the project manager merely answered that it was in the middle of a period, that it could not be completed, but the Painting operation would be completed. Then, the conclusion of the article with the synopsis suggests that on the basis of what has been presented and in accordance with the requirements of the law of No. 48/2011 would be suggested at the Parliamentary Syllabics proposal that the activation option Idolation would be classified as a new category of national protection and energy efficiency programmes. The law does not allow the minister to suggest that any other priming options go to a novelty party. It's as clear as it can be. It's amazing when we have such a clear legal arrangement, when such a clear line on how to suggest that priming be a protection party, a waiting party, or a novelty on this land, and a minister is absolutely clear that he is bound by it. In what I have called an amazing legal program, the president of the Generals decided that members of Congress are still free to suggest anything at the council, suggest any change to this council resolution, and suggest that any initiative taken into a novelty party may be proposed. They're free of the law. Is that so? The minister is in his motion bound by the law, not by members of the council. So, what situation has come up here? Can humans begin playing games openly? Ministers are usually members of Congress, too. In another context, some ministers are going to file a case in the power of their Congress over the government. It could be the highest. Environment Ministers also did this, were they bound by the laws as environmental ministers, and could only bring up the prime option of whale activation, but then, in the morning, shocked into the senator's suit, and presented an arrangement for their own matters? Is that not possible? Can't we? What kind of bullshit are we making all of this? This is incredible nonsense, and it's amazing to witness all of this. Of course it doesn't work. I left this weekend with my friends from the Bright Future to the Urlrassus, which has not yet been the cause of Urrandir activation. It's been high. It's the wateriest waterfall in Iceland. He does not give up so much, but in one place he sees how he falls into himself and turns into some sort of chute. There's something hidden about this waterfall. One thing I thought was crystal clear when I looked at that waterfall, facing this natural freak, and that's that I don't have Uryrs. And Jón Gunnarsson doesn't have a Urfyrofos, he can't control this waterfall. No one hires him. The only way to make a decision about whether we want to ruin and destroy such a natural wonder forever is through a long process. It's through all kinds of tireless professional evaluations, it's in the power of democracy, where we give all those who might have an opinion of this opportunity to make comments. Such a process is a frame plan. I would fight to activate the Urrasus under any circumstances. The only way I could be happy with the community taking such a decision would be through the process of making a frame plan. In question class earlier, the highest was held. The prime minister has suggested that a bright future wanted to activate all spades and all outside because we want to put a cable to Europe, to Britain. In any case, we would like to examine that possibility. I'd like to touch this at the end of the line. Prime Minister. One of the things I've been very conflicting with in Iceland's initiatives is how we've actually given away this resource, this energy, even to the point where we've been given no energy. In this regard, the director of the European Commission has spoken for several years and said that the project was trying to get more for these valuables. I believe Iceland's policy should be to enable little but get a lot in place of what seems to be the policy of more than a part of the employment committee, to activate a lot but few. That course I'm turning down. And it was very interesting for me to sit at the last annual meeting of Conspiracy and experience how satisfied you are with the policy of Landing, the national energy company. This is exactly what it says: Let's try to get the best for these resources, and we'll make it right. One of the most remarkable things that the director of national activation said at the meeting was that if we get more energy, e.g. by selling it through a sea cable to Britain, the requirement for more silence will be given because a happy society will not be able to perform these activation projects. [[But you...]] [[But for that...]] I pay more attention to the director of the Land-activation program than to the highest. Minister of the environment when it comes to this. This feels like a policy to me. I refuse to be anxious that we need to rush into the fortresses to solve today's chicken business. Any alarm bell must be ringing when it's too late. The head of a professional cartel is also saying that all the energy he now wants to activate in a bang, preferably yesterday, no matter what the salmon, no matter what, should go into the energy - consuming industry. They're just giving it up. We make strong comments on this course. It's also hanging on the stick. If you're going to continue to penetrate the continuum transfunctioners and give the energy to the lowest bidder again and again, let's not activate anything. Before deciding any further activations, we do well to determine whether or not we will receive something for this resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a meaningful talk and would have wanted to have more time to ask him about the points presented in his talk. One thing I'm going to say is because he correctly mentioned the importance of getting the maximum benefit from the resource. Now we have experience in the case of the fishing resource that once people have published the greeting beyond scientific advice, the fish will fall. So I would like to ask, What do you think? A senator that can happen if we start applying without a legal rule on respect for the environment as expected here? If, then, we were never to be offered, even if a cable were to be applied to other countries, would there be real value to the fact that such eco-friendly energy was because our energy did not meet the requirements to have been created in a manner that law would separate it from that in the case of eco-friendly energy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u111	A respectable president. Interesting question. Of course, we Icelanders have the obligation for all mankind to preserve the nature that has been assigned to us. And if you could argue that the energy we were going to move out or make prices would be processed on the basis of nature chats, irreverent, then you might say that there is no more pure energy. I think it's important to talk about the money and I think that we should listen to it when the president of the Continent says that more profit will not, but on the contrary, it will lead to the whole thing being activated. I find this convincing because I think we're always applying so much because we're just never getting enough for the electricity we're selling with these activations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u112	A respectable president. Another thing to do. The senator mentioned in his talk that this arrangement is introduced with apostasy from the arrangement set out in the Framework Act, that the task management has a choice of activation. It is of interest to note that the present administrative point during the last session was the policy of the Independence Party to say: "Let's take what the project management suggests. That was always a highly respected attitude on the part of them during the last term. But now it has been turned aside, and there is something added to it in the case of the council. Like what? A senator mentioned, perhaps, that men were making a new way. Let's say next year is the highest. A minister with a proposal for some kind of activation at that time will probably set an example that more than a part of the employment network will be able to add to anything that a greater part of the labour board can think of without opposing the laws of the Framework Programme. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that there is in itself no restrictions on what the majority of the employment committees can think if this example is created today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u113	A respectable president. This is what it's all about. If the adjustment is accepted, the example is that here the Parliament can completely bypass the project administration, overstep the framework law. In fact, in this discussion, this is so presumptuous. The head of the professional road committees says that a professional health committee has decided to take over the role of the work project and to complete the statistics assigned to the project management. Of course, there are an amazing number of questions here. Is a professional health committee, when she has become a task management committee in a frame plan, bound to the same obligations as listed in the law? Isn't it? So she's not supposed to fire all the professionals, and she's tied up with them and everything? It's a legal failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u114	Madam President. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator in his excellent speech discussed the spiritual value of Iceland's nature. I have at times felt that some political activity has allowed us to get involved in a very narrow set of standards. We often talk things out of kroner and money, and that's why it caught my attention when a scholar at the University of Iceland recently discussed the value of the highlands psychologically, i.e. worth having access to unmoved natural life for people in general living in urban areas, an environment that affects people's well - being. He noted that 80% of Westerners live in urban areas, which are psychologically capable environments, and therefore, it is very important to maintain this precise access to unmoved nature, there may even be spiritual values to us living here but, of course, also valuable to those who come to our home. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u115	A respectable president. I want to thank you for that question. That's what I'm thinking. I think it's a big part, if not the biggest, of being an Icelander to experience this connection with the nature we have and the forces of nature. There's some line there, and if we're going to destroy nature to create prosperity, there's really no point in being something to create prosperity here, if you understand what I mean. We must be careful not to cross those limits and destroy our treasure for the sake of our temporary goals. I've put it this way, it's like selling your baby for diapers, but if you don't have a baby anymore, you don't need diapers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u116	Madam President. I'm worried that sometimes we think things are all too narrow, that even a little emotional to talk about a broader vision to form on nature, that nature is not just there to activate and create some X-ampicin economy for a long time, but also a lot of other things. It matters to herself because she has been around much longer than we have, and it probably lasts much longer than we do, and I hope it at least, and it matters, too, as I mentioned earlier for feeling spiritually. I simply wondered if members of the Parliament, instead of actually taking over here, should be wondering, " Is there any other factors to consider? ' Well, I'm sure I hear what I'm saying. The members of the greater part don't wear their pants, they've even come up with too many data on these advantages, as someone put it before a weekend. But one of the things I would have liked to have a more thorough assessment of is to provide an assessment of the social impact of activations, and that's where we should be heading, because there are major decisions under here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u117	A respectable president. In recent decades, I think that this society has been gradually and perhaps through all these debates about activation and protection, more clearly defined what is valuable. Perhaps it will also help us to define these valuables that visitors from all over the world are now flocking to experience these exact things, nature, so that many people can see these value. When it comes to deciding whether to destroy them, I feel that something is so obvious that we should, in any case, hurry. Put some advantage in waiting to find out more about them, it's not a crime. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's fine speech. He only went into the difference between waiting for something, or waiting to decide what to do with something, and the other deciding to put something into a novelty party and that what is being done here is upside down to what was done during the last terms. I'm wondering what. A senator can shed light on this, in view of his experience in the previous terms, what the legal consequences could have on the activations themselves if these changes were accepted. I'm sure it's all going to be reported all the way back and forth, and you're assuming. Then I find out that I'm not talking about the legality of the transition proposal but about whether it's decided to cancel the decision of a Senate resolution to be in accordance with a principle which will then fail to pass the law - whether the activations are legal, whether this is not determined to go this way. In particular, I put it in the context of the fact that this is a waiting period to be changed against not using it immediately and waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u119	A respectable president. This difference is very important. Taking things out and waiting is not irreversible and does not lead to anything irreversibly irreversible. It just creates a better basis for decision-making, more information, more research. I never understood in my last term how people could go crazy over this, talk about some fraud in this, especially after 220 reviews were received with a lot of reasoning that this way would be gone. Putting something into and then making use of it is irreversible. There's a fundamental difference. Is it a legal way that most of the professional committees are going to go here? No, I don't think so. I think it's illegal, and I think it's gonna be charged if that's the result. And I've been through it myself, whether members of the smaller section should take the initiative, if this goes through, to sue this conclusion, to add to one lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u120	A respectable president. To be honest, I'm concerned about this aspect of the matter. What's in the eye is that - when you look at it from the last season, which I've been able to do here only while others have been talking about it, you always have to do two things at once here - that if you decide to make a waiting decision, you'd be indicted and the result would be in the way that the decision was wrong, it wouldn't mean that it could not be applied automatically. On the other hand, if a waiting party is removed and that decision is judged illegal, that would mean waiting for him or so, I would understand. But I'm interested in all that stuff. A senator may suggest how the presentation was during the last term on these issues. Here is this motion and the discovery of a frame plan justified by the alleged endeavor that took place during the last term, so that all of that would be appropriate. A senator can tell us the difference between the two alleged actions I think is an important entry into this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u121	A respectable president. It's the sky and the sea apart. During the last term, the project management offered proposals for a replacement party, a waiting party, and a protection party. There was a review process, a very large number of reports before the matter was presented at the council, and aggressive questions arose about putting these fortresses into the lower part of During the Year and the Cradle, and more instigators in a novelty party. I think the question that everyone needs to answer that criticism of this process is what should have been done when debates were made by reasoned remarks and when it comes to the natural nature of Iceland when the salmon population in Þjóturðið. Just punch it, activate it? Don't give me that shit. Of course not! To enable and add to the colony is to this much more dramatic and excessive operation than to delay or specifically ask for the task management, and notice, to consider the comments that she needs to get peace to complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u122	Madam President. It has been observed in the highest range. Prime Minister how much effort there is around it in the government and in the majority of the employment committees to activate. There is another sound that exists among young people living in this area, as we did when we were Thieving. I just want to quote their agreement on this matter. They talk about this as irreversible, and they prefer to see the development of tourism, which gives young people opportunities for employment. The Agency will not create a number of future jobs in the country, or opportunities for tourism, which are unlimited and lost in this area. I'd like to hear some attitude. That's for a senator. Today, 80% of the energy in the country is produced in the South, but only 4% is new in that area. The plant consumes five times as much energy as its home. [[The president calls.]] I just want to hear some speculation. A senator on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u123	A respectable president. Thank you for the question. One of the things that make me sweat out of fear when I talk about these matters is that there is a real danger, especially when these political parties rule in the administration home, that anything that's going to activate in Iceland, maybe not Gold Falls or Geys, will just be activated. All this energy, there wouldn't be so much energy left, enough to knock maybe two worlds, and then it would have come. I sometimes fear that future. I can well imagine that young people in the South fear this too, that all the wise ones and who will be applied to achieve these goals, perhaps two members of the world, and that energy will be sold to them by some significant discount. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This would be horrible, but this is what we're dealing with and trying to stop happening. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u124	Madam President. A vision of the future. For a new generation, the prime minister is not well aware of the construction of employment. Of course, it's a very special thing if living generations are already to decide how we're going to conduct secular life and diversity in the future by trying to go into the vast arrays for that, you feel, to get energy into big business. V.E.G. The urgency of the situation called for energy today, the prime minister. Today, there are about 900 megawatts in a novelty class. Bus neck has just entered the system, i.e. The energy produced there. What does that count? A senator that's exactly in the emergency room right now if they don't get enough energy, just yesterday?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u125	A respectable president. I think this case is the highest. The prime minister was born in a panik during the morning. I can't quite figure it out. But how important it is not to lose sight of the enormous potential in Iceland's energy resources! It is now, for example. Landliners have spent years trying to get more money for the energy that is being used. It refers to the energy in the system, the so - called controlled energy that we're not selling to anyone, and we could be selling now, and we don't have to build the inducers for it. By doing this - this would be what I would say if I was prime minister - and got more money - we could start putting money in all kinds of structured businesses all over the country, technology funds, innovation funds, the green economy, and creative branches. We could start building up the infrastructure, the health system, the education system. [[The president calls.]] What a bright future that would be! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u126	Madam President. It is evident that there have been two excellent talks on this subject. Well, there's been a lot of answers from what happened. The members of the greater part, one if I've just noticed, so they're not strong enough to get to the speaker's list and discuss this matter, and there's no convincing evidence to it. We've been here to point out the formality of the case. All right, then say what. The members of the greater part that the matter has been decided, but there is no convincing evidence to explain why the council is being held in this matter at a time when perhaps we could be discussing the more important issues, such as the clumsy disputes in society. There has been no evidence that there is any reason to protract these benefits into a novelty party. Project management is known to be completed in one year. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we just wait? I haven't heard any evidence of that yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u127	A respectable president. I think there's a reason why we're discussing the President's Board of Meetings and Congress regularly and for a longer time after I heard it. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son back here. He stepped in a chair and demanded that their freedom of speech be taken under the program for meeting management because we did not use it as he pleased. We have repeatedly complained about the President's conference board because the President's conference board is incompetent, as I pointed to in my speech earlier and will point again, hopefully when it happened. 2.m. Witchest. Sit down in the President's chair. It is simply not that the president is neutral. This is not to say that the president of the council is the president of all members of Congress. We might as well discuss it, for what are we going to do more than discuss it? Is it too much to expect that we have the freedom to discuss these things, a respectable president? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u128	A respectable president. This discussion was followed in the highest language. On the first day of this discussion, Prime Minister, in fact, it was on the first day of this discussion. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir that they were interested in taking part in this argument, that they would be interested in hearing the appeal of those who oppose the proposal, considering the reasons and/or react to it. None of this has happened. We are now on the fourth or fifth day of this discussion. Those who take the lead in the government and the Assembly of the Agency have not participated in the discussion and in the Supreme Assembly. The discussion of a frame plan presents a very profound lack of knowledge on both the law and the proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Surely we want these people to participate in the discussion so that it can start to fantasize. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u129	President. I want to reiterate what I said under this schedule earlier today. V.E.G. The prime minister seems to be playing some childish game about threatening the council that it will be a summer council. I don't think any senator would be willing to work here until summer and even for all summer if we knew what to talk about. I think it is absolutely necessary that these claims be followed by a prime minister. You don't know if he's come to terms with the council president on this. I believe that there must be a part of the debate that has been here during the summer council that what should be discussed in this summer council. Then I feel that those who are in charge here should also take into account what the government has said repeatedly, that we do not believe that there is a suggestion on this table as it is presented. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u130	Madam President. I agree with the demands and requests of the government on this matter. As we have said many times, the matter is of course in our confusion, and when the message is as misleading as we have noted, we have reason to speak to the President's conference board, especially in the light of the conclusion he published in his decision, and because it was said here in the hall that he should not argue with the judge, and that is very important, he is not a judge. He is the president of all of our members, and he is under obligation to respect it. On the other hand, we have claimed that his verdict looks political and has presented evidence of that. While we have this case in here and the president of the council, Einar Kristinn Guðfinnsson, but the Council of the hostage for the case, the union of the prosthesis has become threatening, a survey among its companies that now threatens those who are in the strike of resignation and paint the devil on the wall just to be afraid. [[The president calls.]] This is what we should be discussing, how we want to have a community, and what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u131	A respectable president. I saw the highest. Environmental Minister has rushed out of here earlier with some minorities. I wondered, " Is it safe for me to continue with the discussion because it really matters that she can be here to respond and at least hear what is being said? ' I also find that the most peculiarly said, if ever. The prime minister steps forward in the media, arguing that this case is some kind of priority for the government and for the only true solution to the present - day debate, he is coming here and going over the plan with us. It would have seemed natural to me to have been the highest. If there is a plan, the prime minister would do so. It's obvious he has to come here and review it with us. He is not just some man in a town who can sit at the kitchen table and say what comes to mind. [[The president calls.]] If this is the solution to the labour market at this time, he needs to come here and review that plan with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u132	V.E.G. President. I've been calling for it now repeatedly to the highest level. Prime Minister is in the discussion for a reason. He has repeatedly expressed statements and implied certain things that I feel are necessary to get opportunities to talk to the highest degree. Prime Minister, especially because of the repeated reports that he is coming into the discussion and wants us to talk and reason on the matter. Two significant talks have already been delivered there. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir was very careful and the leading of the matter as well. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson. There is a low response in the management population, i.e. They give no comments or comments that are important in the discussion, and especially from the top. Prime Minister, apart from the highest. A prime minister would have been wise to listen to the discussion even if it were only for him to handle its discussion correctly and how the decision - making campaign was during his final term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u133	A respectable president. The reason we are now is because the government is completely powerless. There are repeated reports that there is no preconceived position here, neither for the government, nor for the administration classes. It is May 19th, and these people don't know what to do, they don't know what they're going to talk about. They haven't organized into the future, they don't seem to talk, they don't seem to only talk through the media, and the situation is that we're drawing up a play that is going to discuss here day after day, instead of facing the fact that a perfect impotence is on the move. The problem in society is enormous, and all these people have to offer is attitude, ridicule, and outcasts, and for this reason I especially like to welcome it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has arrived at the rosary for President's conference board and will show this in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u134	Madam President. Like a lot of other guys. Senators, I call after the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. He has, as director of the European Commission, spoken in terms of contract negotiations. I listed earlier that for a challenge from some union and public organization, such as BHM, in negotiations, I continue on that path. Has a state manager approached the highest level. Prime Minister and spoke of this as a solution to collective agreements? I think we here at the council have a right to know what is happening in this regard and to participate in what is happening in that field. V.E.G. The prime minister must be here in the hall and discuss with us members of the Parliament and tell us what the terms of this matter are in agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u135	V.E.G. President. We are having a discussion about a big issue because it has to do with decisions about which energy to use and which ones to protect. As we have noted many times, we have made comments that the matter is allowed to be on schedule when there is a change in proposal that does not pass the law. Here is a law on protection and energy efficiency, and this is a meeting resolution adopted in 2013 on a Framework Programme, the first one to be approved, followed by the 68 - page Commission. I think, Madam President, the government should have a little intercom now, we should take a break and people read themselves only so people can stand here responsible for their actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u136	A respectable president. It's a very strange situation we're in. The following is called after the session, and there are a lot of subjects on the program, but the government does not want to discuss the subject on which it is scheduled. That's very strange. Not only have I signed up for the conference board but I have also put myself on the rosary in the case itself, for I would like to express my opinion of this matter afterward. It is Tuesday, and a meeting may last up to 12 o'clock at midnight. I would like to speak in this case today before it begins to darken, but it depends naturally on whether or not this speech at the government stand will continue, this filibuster that has been standing for 1,134 minutes, it's two hours and it's been shown until noon on day 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u137	V.E.G. President. Here are some very good talks. paritaprevir A Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter and Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, that's very important. [[Up front.]] In case of a moment. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir wants to find out I'm willing to trade her money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u138	Great, done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u139	Yeah, sure, I'd love to hear her opinion on this matter. In fact, I think it's a little funny that the former government opposers or the last members of the council are criticizing a meeting board. It's really an amazing game to listen to people when they come up here. I've never been at a council before, but to come here and criticize the current government opposition for a lawsuit and a discussion on the President's conference board is quite funny. I just have to say, it's not a pretty thing to fall here in this regard. [[Up front.]] However, I would like to direct it to the council president to try to settle this matter, for she is not in the sight of the situation today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u140	Madam President. I think it's very important to do so. The prime minister is here in the hall, listening to talks. It is also very important to do so. Prime Minister, come here in a speech and review why it is so important to put this activation option in use, why it is so important to add to the existing energy efficiency options that are being worked on like Bearfjord, Theist smoke, Smokejanes, and then we have Hellishe activation and Buddhist neck. [[It's live from the meeting.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u141	Beautiful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u142	Why do we need to add this? Why do we need to overlook professional judgements?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u143	A cable to Europe. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u144	What's the hurry? What's the top professional policy? Governments? We need the highest power. Prime Minister here in the public address to discuss this with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u145	The President wants to tell you what. Councilmen to the highest. The prime minister has been made aware that his presence is requested here in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u146	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has to answer our questions about how to complete Congress within the short time ahead if we maintain a work programme, as the president of the Parliament has discussed. If this is to be the only major matter to be resolved, how does it picture the possibility of completing congregational duties? And it's not just that it's a matter that's very controversial, it's also an illegal process that we're taking it into. It has been observed, and they may want to forget, that the Environment and Resource Ministry has decided that there should be no priming options at the Council unless a project management has made a decision and it has not been done. Therefore, it is not just a matter of discussing the matter; it is against the law. More of it. The employment committee should think only about or this could end up in a lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u147	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir on this process. I got it. I got it. Senators to bid a sound to answer as soon as possible after speeches. Councilmen begin, but do not wait for them to be almost finished to avoid making an answer. I used to say something earlier. The senator and the chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, made of a reply. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir last assembly. There she thanked the counter, saying that she could agree with the viewpoints presented in her speech and objections regarding Urrandir activation, that, on the contrary, it was a matter of protective her during further investigation. It'll be interesting if she takes a seat right now. paritaprevir The next talk by Páll Valur Björnsson's son will be relatively brief when we hear what has changed in the process that she feels is now a failure to join a colony. Other than that, I agree with what has been said about the presence of prime minister, that he will show up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u148	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir for clearly pointing out that as she says, there is now a discussion about the President's conference board, and I have no reason to challenge her word about it, I have two and a half hours a day. This is the result of the making of the council. This is the result of a change proposal that does not measure the law on how to proceed with a frame plan and the only way we have to protest it is to draw attention to it again and again. Now that we have called attention to it for two and a half hours, we will continue to do so if we need to, because the decision of the president of the Senate is courageous, as it were. paritaprevir Because the president of the council is not neutral in this matter, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has repeatedly pointed out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u149	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to complain that we're here for two hours, that people are being disturbed by the whole world. Why are we doing this? During the 16◯17 hours that the discussion has taken place, people have been informed about a lot of things. The media are beginning to realize that the course of a frame plan is being breached. And would it not also reveal what little is involved in what is being discussed? I now especially wish that those sitting in the hall, that is, only one of those who make the suggestion, would inform us of where we would be if we had performed the whale operation right away, which was a proposal for the government to advise by the approved advisers, the councils, both the Environment Department and the Ministry. How long will it take to complete your work at the project? [[The president calls.]] Do we need to stand here for days to protect the process? This is nothing but pride, violence, and the fists being used.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u150	Madam President. I repeat that I request that this case be canceled. I have entered these last days and will continue to do so until it is scheduled. But this may be, like some cod. Congress officials have pointed out, a play that is going on to cover up or not do so officially as how unworked the government is. Two o'clock is waiting here. 23 cases, and most of them very minor. All of them are entitled, but none of them are crucial to the interests of the people of the land. And there are five cases three. And then it's the highest word. Prime Ministers, as if it were only natural for a matter to enter before the council when the deadline to present a matter for Congress is long gone. Madam President. You can't offer such nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u151	I asked the highest. A president of a simple question earlier on whether it's the highest. The minister of the environment and the prime minister would be here on this discussion. I would appreciate the answer as soon as possible, at least they'll be offered because I think they have to be here. That is especially so, since it has been said that this is the key issue of the government in order to solve business disputes. No one knows how much this government has called for the fact that it would be done to solve a big argument. I think that's what it is, too. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should attend this discussion and listen to what is being said and participate in it. It doesn't mean to put in such suggestions and fall in here at will and on what is convenient for each occasion. In addition, I think it would be good for him to hear the information presented here because there seem to have been a number of things missing from the Commission in the processing of this case, and especially the legal opinion of two schemes, environmental and resource and sector services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u152	The President will tell you why. Councilmen that the requested minister has not been reached and therefore may not be able to arrive soon but will continue to try to obtain the highest request. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u153	Madam President. I think it's cute to hear what you're saying. The members of the major body are coming up here crying for discussions on this matter. It is as if they didn't realize that the Council is a seminar, and the ruling side has a place to play, which is to maintain. Right away. The members of the greater part suggest to go past legal procedures and, if this proposal is approved, to upset a whole law column and create a tremendously dangerous example for the future, an example of how we act at the International Assembly of Iceland are involved in law and rules, it's simply a disaster. If the government doesn't do its job to stop such developments, the government's going to fail. I'm just blowing up when people come up here crying over a lot of talk. We're just trying to do our job, which is to make sure that the Allied Council stays within the law and order. It's as simple as that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u154	A respectable president. I haven't heard any senators crying around here. I think there's someone else who's gonna do the crying. It's been asked what's on the line, as if there's no reason to get these activations started. There is a hurry to use the resources of the country to improve the welfare of the people so that we can raise the money. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Hv. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Hannesson says we're breaking up some deal. We're putting on a switchbar. We're making up for the breach that took place during the last term. We're moving the benefits that were transferred from a waiting party. We're reassigning them to a novelty party, as professional groups recommended. To hear such a thing. A Southnesian senator encourages me to start applying the cigarette habit, to activate the natural bulbs of Smokeyness, and to think I'm sorry. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u155	A respectable president. ▪ Stop counting, it's me. There are words that come to mind when it comes to reason. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has begun to count. I've been giving one speech in this case, and I think it's two days since I've been accused of having a filamentist. It's all a little reverse. Why are we discussing the President's conference board? There are about 25 members of Congress who are very disagreeable, upset with the President's conference board, the way the meeting is conducted. Those who criticize that it has come up so often over a meeting board to criticize the President's conference board will the same ones tell us how we should communicate differently that we disagree with the President's conference board? What other ways are we here? Why don't we just stop this and put the status on Facebook? [[The president calls.]] Everybody settles. There's an unsuspecting mood at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u156	Madam President. Before giving my talk earlier today, I wished that I would be seated here in the hall. Senators who make the adjustment proposal we're discussing here because I was going to review the progress. I had noticed that they had misunderstood something. But my wish was ignored. This is where it comes from. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, one of the performers, is still discussing the big misunderstanding that their proposal was to make. Councilmen are built. I object that we will continue this meeting. I'm asking Mrs. President to try to sit down with the proposalaries and review the case with them, since this proposal of theirs is conducted on a weak legal and political foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u157	A respectable president. I thought you said you had a case. 5th a.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! not very convincing of why this case is so relevant. Now it's not as if people have been protesting here outside the Council recently that more of the initiatives are missing or that the frame plan is all too modest, and they really need to be activated in the lower part of Þjóturur, it hasn't been that way. It's been called only from what happened. The more part of the council, the more likely the forces there are to activate, I presume. It's no big deal to settle this dispute. It's very simple. How would one resolve such a dispute? You would do it in the exact same way that you would do it at any workplace, at any school, in any family, in any group of friends, anywhere but here. One would talk about what we could do that would be okay with everyone. I think it's because of the President's conference board in the big context and the Senate, why the High Council has so little confidence among the public. This is because we cannot do simple things like talking to each other. These are the simplest things that can be done to resolve disputes, and we seem unsatisfactory. [[The president calls.]] Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u158	A respectable president. That's exactly what it is. All matters can be solved by talking to one another. V.E.G. The president of the Generalis has this authority, which can help. He has an uncircumcised program here at the council, he decides what the program should be. He can also determine which questions he will answer and whom he will not answer, so here you are able to arise and ask with persistence and to the highest degree. The president may choose not to answer anything. But by his conduct, his decisions, he also determines what the Senate is like, the situation of the council. He decided to put this matter on the program knowing that there would be a great controversy in the Assembly Hall. That is a conscious decision. He decides to set the smaller portion against the wall, that's very indistinguishable to me. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. The president has to consider all the tools he has in the toolbox, capable of improving the Senate, to make it better. [[The president calls.]] It's in his hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u159	V.E.G. President. I'm just coming up to say the last two speakers, talk to each other. The relationship is the most amazing thing in all human life, and we can always reach a conclusion. Let's talk. Although we disagree completely over all things, we should be able to reach a conclusion. It's an incredible delay we've made up of ourselves here at the council, so it's not stopping. It's safe to say what. I'm sorry, the members of the council are not going to stop until they yield and discuss matters and try to find some conclusion on how to handle this matter. In particular, I want to come up here and point out that the people who live on the banks are not to speak for themselves. To me, its interests are more than the silicone factories of Grunettes, that's just the way it is. It's just that there's a lot more important in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u160	V.E.G. President. I don't have anything to go to the conference board. President to be set, she's fine. But I just want to state that that that's exactly what we're trying to do here and get out, i.e. to discuss the matter. This is done under the circumstances, not prepared for the President's conference board. I call attention to the fact that we need to get to the place where we can get the discussion started. It's almost six o'clock, and we've had two excellent talks today. Other than that, we have talked largely about the President's conference board; we were in a short time of inquiry for the first time today. V.E.G. President. Let's get back to the meeting, get some good talks and talk about it, let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u161	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss this matter with you about the process of a frame plan. I may have news for more part and for the government, but the situation in Iceland doesn't approve of activation issues. They all have opinions about them, and there are people who want to activate everything, and there are those who want to protect everything, and so is everything. That is why it is of utmost importance that we set up a legal process, a careful professional process in which we try to make peace, and I respect it, and I like it. That is why, of course, when we are going to make this political and six people, the greater part of the employment committee, take action. That's not good. I would have thought that if people didn't agree with what was going on, which way we've taken this case, the law should be changed and let it go through the council, and we could talk about it. If a greater proportion of the employment committees are going to take over what was assigned to the project management and the professional groups, then we are out of confusion. I don't understand that this discussion we are in here is surprising to most of the parts and governments, and this fierce reaction to the situation. They are not to be surprised. It is also said that it is absolutely necessary to activate immediately tomorrow, and it is even mixed with bridal talks that I find very farfetched. It is not as if there are no products, and this is not as if there are not many waiting options. I'd also like to agree with what's been going on here that it's really important that we get a good price for energy. I think there's a lot of them, and I may be one of those people who's not at the point where they're not supposed to put more activity in Iceland, but if they're going to activate the fifth plant and sell the energy, I'd rather not activate anything. There are also many who ask: If we give up something, what will we get in return? You have to have an acceptable price for the energy, and it's not that way today, so I think it's playing in too. There's also something else that I think that maybe we should be talking about, because we're talking here about the need to get the wheels started and that's why it's very important to activate, that we're having a problem here in Iceland, moving electrical energy between parts of the country. That is, in fact, a very big problem, and even what we should be discussing further. It's the National Network System plan that I think the employment committee has already finished with the Committee. I think it's the Committee that's very good with this case, e.g. Committee 1st, smaller part of the job board. I'd like to quote the comments of the European Union member on the case that I think this frame is pretty good, with the permission of a president: It has been said that governments must place great emphasis on the decision-making of activation options based on professional views. The Framework Programme aims to ensure that long-term thoughts and evaluations of the total interest in energy efficiency and protection of land regions are at least dependent on the government at any given time. The decision process must be clear and careful so that, as much as possible, the results of a framework plan can be resolved, there is a risk that there will be little or no respect for the results of a framework plan. That's a very good wording, and it's like speaking out of my heart. A smaller section suggests that the case is referred to an environmental and resource minister and that it has been better. It is referred to in the discussion that during the last term the issue was political. I won't say anything about it. In fact, I don't think it's possible to add a waiting party or a waiting party to a waiting party, in the latter case, that it has not been activated and can be considered further. Of course, as it has been said, it can never be the standard for people to do something that was wrong with them during the last term, and we're just going to do it now. There's no grammatical argument. We must always try to improve our work ethic as best possible. I don't think that's exactly any excuse and kind of funny what's always being drawn up in the discussion. It's about the project management that these advantages have not been completed and that may be reflected in the talks of those who know the subject better than I do, but it's a little interesting to me. On what shores? You need money in the field, the project management? Could it not be a decision to say that the next fall in line might provide additional priming options, such as ... inTurdarin, but there's money in it and the project management has time to finish the job? I can't quite figure out what's on the beach. I've heard of money missing in the pro groups, and if that's the case, don't we have a duty to respond to it? I also find a little strange in the change in the development of the more part if you read it that it's a bit like a larger part has become a sort of trade group or project management, weighing the activation options and drawing some phrases out of the headlines. It's interesting what says here on Lake Hags, by permission of Presidents: The ▪Meii domain calculates by taking into account the rise in terms of lion fluctuations at the time of environmental impact assessment, where acceptable solutions will be available or conditions should be met if the preparation of the procedure takes place. Is it the responsibility of more than one part of the job committee to reach such a conclusion? Aside from what I understand, men are out of action, the majority are going to pull it back. I think it's very unprofessional, and it's not like I'd like it to be. We don't have any special experts in the world or salmon problem -- yes, I take it back, actually, we have members of the Parliament who are experts in that field, but it's strictly professional that we get experts to appreciate it for us and are not ourselves picking up some phrases from our reviews to support our decision. What I hate about this case is that we take a process that took time to work and is here, and we're gonna throw it at the dump. I think it's the case with us Icelanders, it's like applying for involvement in the European Union, how complicated can it be to go into such a process and finish it? A lot of nations have done it, but no, we're not doing it because it's just too hard, we all know what's best, we all know what's best, and then we don't have to listen to experts or take the case in a certain direction. Let's just take it out of the channel when it's convenient for us. I don't like it at all, Mr. Honorable President. I don't think I have any more to say at this point. I have mostly sat in this hall listening to other members of the council. I've never really got around this process, and maybe I'm just gonna have to push to sit down and read about what this is all about. I'm also a little worried that people out there didn't realize what a frame plan is, what's a novelty group and a waiting party, what's a new proposal for a Senate resolution. I'd appreciate it if the Kingdom News or TV would make a news story on a frame plan where this case would be reviewed from the top, because I think there are a lot of people like me before discussing this matter have a vague idea, but I don't fully understand why we in the government stand for what's going on at a council so unsettled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u162	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A member of the Parliament for a good and objective talk, and it is exemplary for us to sit here in the Assembly Hall and get a better grasp of big, complex issues. Of course, this matter has a long turn, and it is absolutely correct for the senator that the thought behind the framework design of a frame plan from the beginning was to try to get us above political tensions, which were originally instigated with this matter, had a good objective. In the past, however, the matter was taken away and set into political direction. It was the last government to do so with the intervention minister as a week from the motion given to the group assigned to classify the order of project management in frame 2 proposed. It was declared in the Assembly Hall that there was no peace with that proposed government. [[The president calls.]] It's good to have an opportunity to inform them. The senator's reason for this matter has come into this ditch is that it was politically promoted by the last government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u163	A respectable president. I can say that it's important that we start this out of political debates and the process is professional. Even though I can't answer for what was done during my last term, I understand that it was legitimate. The minister had the authority to place these priming options in a waiting party, remove them from a novelty party, and join a waiting party. The decision may be debated, but it was legitimate, and it is not so dramatic to take a new category of options and put in a waiting party and become a waiting party, to use it, without fully checking it. But what's going on now is that there are instruments to see if these laws are above our heads. That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u164	V.E.G. President. It's against the law. It will. But it is absolutely clear that the suggestions given here were taken by the last government and that, in effect, upset the whole thing was a political horse market. It was clear to everyone who served here during the last term. I know why. A senator strives to be effective at the council, and this is an example, a good student of matters, etc., but it also means that he must try to figure out when former government officials try to rewrite the story in his own favor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u165	A respectable president. I would even want to direct a question to why. A senator who I may not be able to do, whether or not anything that was done during my last term. A senator felt that he was unprofessional, justifying an unprofessional practice today. Either we agree that the project management controls it and puts options in a category, a waiting party, or a protection party, or not. If we don't agree on it, thinking that the senators can only do this, maybe we should say it right now and maybe just take these laws out of force or something. We do not follow the process we agree on, putting it into the channel that took a long time to build up, and we hoped we would be content. I can't help but read the former opinion of the 1st smaller section, which says: 'The motion of the majority of the segment is in conflict with the law.'
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u166	V.E.G. President. I can't pass because of generalization. paritaprevir The daughter of Brá of Konráðsdóttir said that this adjustment is in harmony with the law. The Ministry of Environment and Resources disagrees with her, but that's not what I was going to talk about here, but I was going to say that there's been a bit of a surprise about the proposal made before a lot of years, and then there's a variety of changes in the motion and it's caused an upset here for the whole winter of the council, that this is all at once become a key issue for the agreements. Then I'd like to hear it. A senator, because she carefully reviewed her work with the branches and other factors, would she consider it a promising way to build up and grow to focus on as this government seems to intend to do during the construction period, that is an injection into the economy, not to consider what kind of professional life we can inject? Is this a good course?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u167	A respectable president. I think it's such an incredibly far-fetched explanation for the highest degree. Prime Minister that I cannot really answer that question. As I said in my speech, I would think that at least for us living in the north and east, it was more important to get the electricity available in that area. It directly inhibits the local job structure that the electric lines have not been set up that carry the electricity to northeastern countries, and it's colder than the capital area, so I would think it was more important. But talking about this in the context of collective agreements makes me very strange.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u168	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is quite remarkable to think that when the government came into power, she wanted to wind down pretty much everything the previous government had done, including an investment plan for building wood and funding for a competitive fund. And I wondered because the problem seems to be the biggest problem in unemployment for college students: Count back. A senator's approach to flumbrushing legislation and going on in order to enable perhaps sooner or later something that will be activated even later is what is the most economic need in Icelandic society? What about putting money in a competitive fund and such? Would that not be more likely to resolve a fight?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u169	V.E.G. President. I don't think that any single activation option solves any fight. Today is being activated, e.g. It's a delightful construction on the north of The States. I think when it comes to mensies it's important to build trust. I think the turmoil we now find in a job market is also about the mistrust of the government and maybe the whole politics, I think it's more important, and then it's not a crime to increase trust. We cannot even comply with the laws and actions that we ourselves have made. That's not a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u170	A respectable president. I know why. A senator does not particularly enjoy discussing his last terms. But because we're always talking about work and people are finding some sort of foothold in the last terms of work when they support this case, it seems like that's the only argument they have, I'd like to ask. A senator at one time. During the last term, there were laws accepted, and there were provisional regulations. The provisional principle discussed how to proceed with the first stipulation that would be agreed on the basis of the law at the council. That program was then adopted in 2013. The process was carried out beyond what we now know as the legal environment, which included a 12-week review process after an open review process, after the class had passed on to the heads of professional groups within the task management. There was a third hundred comments that the Ministers decided not to take sides but that they would ask the project management to do so and therefore set the advantage for a waiting group that received the most comments. How would it have been? During such a 12 - week period, a senator would repeat reviews?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u171	A respectable president. I'd like to quote your speech. paritaprevir The Guðmundur son of Steingrímsson, to which I thought that was a good explanation for the position of the minister when all these comments or comments come. No marvelous damage done by waiting and checking the situation further and more harmed when activated without being absolutely careful. In itself, I do not comment on that procedure, but I find it shocking that there is always some reference to something that wasn't well done, and at the same time I feel that they do not feel that they are doing it professionally right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u172	A respectable president. It is the core of the problem that we faced back then because it is a general law that has now gone into effect and that has been worked since then, but it had other rules about this first round. There's always been a reference to the process at the same time that I've said that if we had been doing what humans are doing right now, we'd probably have put some advantage in protecting or doing things differently, if political fingerprints had been on it. That's why we went that neutral way. [[Up front.]] So I ask why. A senator whether she believes that some other means had been able to handle the situation, when we passed along on a third hundred envelopes about certain advantages. How will they be treated? Will they look past them, or will they ask professionals to review them so that they do not start making decisions on their basis?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u173	A respectable president. Like what? A senator entered was under way because of changes. I think what's about this case is so complicated that I almost fell out and came back inside the end. I think this is going to show again and again that we have a huge social issue and I think that there's only 10% of the people who really know what it's all about. This is a matter that RUV should make a news show about from the beginning of the process to this day, about what it's all about. It would be good for all of us to watch such a show. But as the situation is today, it's news and if you didn't see the news No. 1 That was seven years ago, you may be out of bed because the news is always based on knowing and knowing what it's all about. It's very complicated, but to answer the question, I don't know what I would have done if I had been a minister during the last term, I suppose I would have stepped very gently to the ground.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. It has been said repeatedly here that we on the pro board put ourselves on a higher horse than are professional groups. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, whether she thinks she knows better than the Power Institute and Energy Manager, who gives a review of the adjustment proposal. The review of February 10, 2015, says: The proposal is in line with the professional results of the project administration and the original Parliamentary arrangement. There was three activation initiatives in the southern part of the water, i.e. Substitution, Impulse activation and Holtization, all in the Þjótur, organized into the energy generation, were some of the activation factors that were among the most practical and the best studied. These benefits, however, were transferred from a panoramic energy group to the Group of Correspondence in 2013, without any professional grounds for the basis of professional judgment. By transporting the proposed activation of the Parliament from a waiting category, the aims of the sustainable development of electricity production were put at risk. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with this review?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u175	A respectable president. I want to state that I don't think I know better than anyone. That's exactly what I've admitted, and maybe I'm completely honest about it, that I find this very complicated, and I don't know better than a professional committee or anyone else. All I'm saying is that I trust the process we've decided and I want it to be followed. And I don't realize that, is it? A senator speaking of project management 2 in his question, or is he referring to project management 3?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u176	A respectable president. I'm pointing out that we on a professional committee are listening to and taking into account the facts from professionals, a lot of people. [[For example: 2 or 3?]] This is a review from the Power Institute on this transition. They also say: It seems wrong to have been required by Generalis. It seems that the most rapid evidence for the transport of the priming option from a waiting category was that the activation of salmon fish in Þjódra had to be better investigated. Such environmental evaluations are, however, considered the first assessment of the environmental impact of action, as Article 5. track No. 106/2000, assessment of environmental effects. Following such examination, the criteria for the environment are set in both the terms of the induction procedure, as per Article 3. Section 6. Electromagnetic No. 65/2003, and a projection scheme. I'm asking why. Senator: Here are the boxes. [[The president calls.]] Although we've done this, there's still the box where the environmental impact of the process is carried out. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that this study of salmon fish belongs there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u177	A respectable president. I have to figure out the right to read the whole review before taking my stand for it in a very brief answer. I can't do that, I have to say it. I understand this so that there are some things that will be considered, I'm talking about project control 3 now, and what I'd like to get answers to is why energy, money and time to finish the process. Strangles on money? [[Up front.]] That's what I don't understand. I also find it interesting that in the discussion that this has been conducted, the change has been made that Hagwater activation has been taken out. I would say that if that is the case, the discussion did some good. But I can't take my stand on individual pieces from individual sources right here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u178	A respectable president. I'm thinking of participating in this discussion about a frame plan, a national protection and energy use programme, and a little bit over the story. This cycle of the strategy's protection and energy efficiency of land, and thus natural protection in our country, has been running for a few hours and has been torn up to the fact that the widely commonly used strategy, is generally called the Framework Programme, has been developed. Although the process, which ended with an approved law on the protection and energy efficiency programme was adopted in 2011 and the Senate resolution of No. 13/141 of January 2013, explains much about the design and the value of the frame plan, however, I intend to review it. The first Icelandic protection laws were set up in 1956, followed by a CDC. These laws reflected the view that natureism had value in itself and that duty and right to protect nature from disturbance and destruction. The law involved the reaction to the fact that the increasingly powerful mechanism for man - made development had resulted in threats of natural resources and indifference to the use of toxic chemicals threatened the existence of animal species and caused disease in many countries, yet the use of such chemicals in Iceland was blessedly low. However, by the laws on nature protection, the call for good conduct, careful precautions, and responsibilities in human activities toward nature followed a trend that had long begun abroad and took place in many industrialized countries. The construction of the major workers in Iceland's highlands began with the construction of Burglian activation in 1966-1969 and became aware that there is enough technical evidence to surround the country's landscape and take away its natural characteristics. Two years after the completion of Burgurization, the protection laws of nature were changed, and since then the Council of Natural Protection was sought for action until it was dropped in 2001. In this way, efforts were made to promote the view of nature protection when priming measures were considered, although they were certainly needed and should have made their roads far greater than when the final decisions were taken. From the construction of Burgurization, there has been a wide debate over the country's activation projects and their impact on a number of viewpoints. I mention only a few but a nature protection, big policy, tourism, a variety of employment lifes, and identical jobs among those that have often been produced and have been tested for the value of unscrupulous nature against novelistic views. A debate about nature protection and the value of virgin nature has lasted for decades here in the United States and certainly yielded to some positive results, including a national protection and energy efficiency programme, i.e. The program we're discussing here. The Ramma program is the product of a career that lasted for decades and its primary objective was that energy efficiency should be developed as professionally as possible and that protection purposes will be maintained, with uninhabited land in themselves and as much at stake when it is taken care of. The scale of financial gains has certainly proved true in recent years by the ever - increasing flow of tourism to the country, where people, in particular, take their way to the land to enjoy what our unmannerly nature has to offer. This has greatly increased the growth of our country's wealth among the nations, and our income has benefited the inhabitants of the land. The tourism industry has taught many of us to appreciate better than before the value of the unscrupulous in Iceland and the unique nature of the country as a whole or so, I hope, although it is true, that I do give much of the legal resources indicated by other means. In fact, the development of the last few years of tourism has proved that unstealing natural nature has value in itself, which makes it a desirable experience. The tourism industry is based on the horrors of Icelandic nature, and its tourists want to make money to enjoy Iceland's magic. This has been noted repeatedly in surveys that have been conducted for the reasons why people visit our country. In this way, Icelandic nature has become our source of income and the basis of the work now creating most of the currency, thus providing an important contribution to our financial resources. Even so, we should still protect Icelandic nature and vastness as an invaluable part of our environment and nature, making sure that the social value in nature will remain uncontaminated to future generations. A respectable president. In a frame plan, there are potentials that are believed to be the activation of hydropowers and geothermals for energy production divided into three categories, energy generation, waiting party, and protection party. This category is made based on the extensive knowledge of experts and comments from the general public. The names of the classes, of course, represent their very content. Cooperatives include areas where it is considered a protection to use energy in terms of economic, environmental, and social views. A waiting class is the areas that are unable to make a complete decision because of the lack of environmental research and an assessment of the likely consequences of energy efficiency. A protective team then consists of those areas in which power mechanisms are impossible and there is thought to be a reason for peace reporting energy. It, under the protection and energy efficiency laws, is required to work on a peace description of energy efficiency. It is important to assume that it is very clear in the opinion of the minority that this has not been started and that there has been no money in terms of peace, which are long approved. Today and over the past few days, we have been discussing the introduction of a waiting class, and we think that we are opposed to the programs that governments intend to take into account that there have often been over-involved on spring days and in winter, as well as in the absence of having taken full account of the procedures that are behind the framework, which have been clearly outlined here. It has been endeavored to reduce its value as a professional tool for measured and careful decision making by forcing the activation of one category into another, and a professional view has been submitted to calmness. A lot of things have been said and written recently, but I'd like to take this opportunity and put it here a few words on the third category of the Framework Programme, i.e. The protective party, as it were, is the key purpose of the framework program to preserve the value of unoriginal nature that includes us now living and, most important, for the future, for our generations. The protective framework of the framework now includes 11 water - power activation options and 9 geodynamic activation mechanisms. In fact, these are not activations at all. On the contrary, they are water and earth's surfaces, which are to be protected, and energy sources are not involved. The protection of these areas, the assurance that future generations will benefit from the benefits of having them unorthodox, is, in my opinion, a far more important task than the construction of energy plants, such as current issues. Sometimes it seems that it is desperately lacking electricity, but I think it is not. There is no shortage of electricity available to the public, either for homes or for employment, and there is no lack of energy - consuming heavy industry to absorb the clean energy available here, to be sure. I think that's enough of that. It is not such a situation that there is an emergency in electronics because of energy shortages and, in fact, there is no reason to act in the way that this is done, to move territories into a novelty party, with as little concern as I think it has been here. I agree with what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, mentioned earlier, indicated that there is more and more reason to consider how we can place this here within the country between parts of the country than to plan to engage more. A respectable president. Privacy involves putting one thing ahead of another and becoming a priority to the extent that the evidence for it is more comprehensive and the effect of priorities in order to resolve the issues it is designed to handle. Framework will include decision-making which is closely related to priorities in which the benefits are grouped and one in particular taken above. The choice of a frame plan will lead to setting priorities in the work being done. Governments have the option to determine whether they will focus their efforts on easing a waiting factor in a hand-to-hand category and inconsistencies with their environment and on the purpose of a frame plan or shoulder responsibility for the projects of the programme and taking measures to protect the protected areas of the programme. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter proposed in the winter when she asked for permission to the highest level. Environment Minister on the state of the peace-lit region and activation initiatives of the Preservation Framework Programme. A respectable president must be told to answer the highest. Environment and resource minister to be found on deck. 773 were pretty sad. Depending on the highest response, there are several factors in study regarding the other 12 areas. Minister, but there is no timetable for progress, no budget, but it is extremely sad. They're predicting something, but no action is seen. To me, it's a matter of fact, it's a frightening release. In other words, the individual is free of the aggressiveness and prowess that mark the attack as a waiting scheme. This contribution was not designed to arouse optimism about working solely to complete a period of peace. Rather, it was marked by a halfhearted, evaporating, and I have no reason to be ludicrous. As a result, elders have realized that peace issues have been shot far back before the novelty since the present time. The government came to power and has chosen to ride on one mission after another to upset a frame plan. What causes this monster, a respectable president? Why So Hard for Nature Now? Why is the land declared, and for whom? Why is such emphasis on increasing the use of water sources and pollution when there is no urgent need? What causes people to lose their high priority in protecting the environment, right now, when the industry gives us most of the income of all industry? Has the highest. Or what exactly is the reason for this amazing priorities? A respectable president. The story of the development of Icelandic society is not always a history of evolution. Sometimes things keep moving ahead, but at other times they step backwards or walk in circles. We are in such a place in history now, I suppose, at least in terms of nature protection. The ultimate effort. In particular, the government aims to reduce the value and impact of nature protection, such as its appendage to show and handle, and the outcome of other cases in this field describes the inability to cope with the protection of nature and environment. It is enough to mention the stickyness that resulted from the natural pass that has existed today, and there seems to be no solution in this regard. We go back into the summer with no income in the construction of wood, which is extremely shocking. The minister is expected to come back on his knees with a request for financial provisions in order to care for this weighty and urgent project. We're walking around here, and unfortunately, we can't see the sun on all this mess. This is shocking, and hopefully more quickly than ever, we'll be able to stop this retreat, this sad walk backward from the worthy aims of nature's protection. I certainly hope that we can begin to reverse the projects properly in this regard and to care for the merits of progress and the respect they deserve. Because this is a statement by the majority of the leaders of the employment board, whether or not to listen to it, it would be interesting that this would be a hearing for the Ministry of Environment and Resources, and for others who have a different opinion than just the ones that are convenient for one another. Of course, I encourage the greater part to reflect on this and to support, of course, the proposal 2 - smaller parts facing deduction. I believe that this matter is the nature of the matter that at least this council will not be completed in the way it is presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u179	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech. I thought why. A senator asks questions we need to answer, i.e. why is that so hard to do and what interests are so rich that you feel that 20 years of work is worth being thrown out of the window in a frame plan. Hv. A senator knew the story very well and handled it well. But I'd like to ask why. A senator would agree with me in that the problem is the problem. People who make this suggestion may not know the story well enough, so they may build their proposals on a weak foundation. If they knew the story well and had studied it well, they would not be acting in this manner, i.e. to take themselves a waiting class activation option and to join a group in a project management campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u180	Madam President. To tell you the truth, I'm not sure if they would, although they knew the story. I'm worried that men only do what they can think of doing. I think it might be the best thing to show up in the fact that this is a very successful operation and people don't see the reason to pull it back, the people who are doing this. I don't think there's a misunderstanding about the interpretation of the law, I think it's just some people's decision, I believe it. That, however, would improve the situation. Councilmen who were not here during the last term, so they did not observe what happened there, are more aware. I would've wanted to see what it was. Congress officials of this case would have a slight passage in the Environmental and Resource Ministry to help them understand this, for this conflict conflicts, as we know, with the evaluations presented there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u181	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. A senator spoke of travel services, natural values, etc. But last night in the ten stories, it went to the top. Prime Minister, that it would be so important to agree to this proposal from a greater part of the employment committee to put more priming options into a category, because it was important to resolve a conflict. V.E.G. The President of the Council told the noon news today that this was government priority. I want to ask you why. A senator - I know that this is a difficult question, and maybe you can't answer it in one minute: know why. A senator every professional convention of the highest order. Government is? Is it possible to lead the odds against who it is from the emphasis indicated here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u182	Madam President. The government's employment policy shows up as an old-fashioned big-time policy. We don't agree on it, government and government, how to interpret it, but that's the way it is to me. This is in opposition to tourism, which has given us a very good review of the matter. I don't feel respected for the revenues we're getting in there; tourism is becoming our biggest mail in Iceland. I'm worried it's that way. And, at best, it's silly that this is an introduction to collective agreements, at least I don't know what to solve. We're not gonna get started tomorrow, we're gonna work out so I can't see it's the introductory. But this is clearly the government's main focus first. The members of a professional board are granted permission to block the program with the support of the president of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u183	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. We were told through the media and so far today that this was the basis of the government's decision-making campaign and that the members of the Continent have cited various comments. Today, the number of jobs that have grown most in the past decade is tourism as well as the sector that is now making the largest currency pay for the Icelandic population. The transport organisations say that it is an obligatory proposal, and it is completely opposed, considered to be credible to the employment committee and to the process on which a structured plan is based. Counts 'em out. A senator, if it's an introduction to a dresser interview, that it's normal to treat the sector that earns the most currency income?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u184	Madam President. No, as I traced my speech earlier, it seems a little strange to me, it's being taken into account by some rather than everyone, and it's only natural for you to ask why it is done. With such a large tourist industry, you feel that a professional worker's committee can handle it as soon as, as the review puts it, this decrease in the credibility of a professional network committee and the process established by a frame plan. But the majority of the employment committees seem to just care about that, which, of course, is of course, extremely worried. And the fact that it's an introduction to a dresser conversation like the highest. The prime minister said that there is much to tell. It was well explained today that this is certainly not what the hospital staff, veterinary surgeons, or some others are waiting to announce that more part of the employment committee has won, because there is no question what the major industry has to say about this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u185	V.E.G. President. Toward the end of the statement by the Board of Travellers, it says, by permission of the President: It is the opinion of the Traveler's Association that natural resources will be watched on a much wider basis than has been done so far, and it will aim to bring together an organization that looks forward to long - term goals for the use and protection of Icelandic nature. Now, more than that, the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunug Gunnlaugsson of Gunnug has been very aggressive in finding ways to make money to build up wood in the tourism service. And what are the benefits now of a professional committee? It's the natural pass, which, of course, is a hand-made document, like other things coming from this government. But have a why. The job board is using its time to find ways to replace it with the natural right to promote structure in this article? No. The time went on to create this enseveral change proposal, calling out a number of visitors and friends from the few who support it across the will of many organizations and a number of sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u186	A respectable president. I cannot help but agree, as I spoke in my speech earlier, that it would be interesting to find out later on what the situation is about income to strengthen the infrastructure. Now it's clear. In effect, the head of a professional car committee decided on the natural pass very quickly. Here we are going into another summer in which there is no income so small that we can go into the construction of the wood and, of course, it's very hard to believe that this is where we want to receive more people. Of course, it's extremely dangerous not to be expected in the budget. We in the smaller part of the legal committee and others here at the council repeatedly pointed to the discussion on the budget that it would be better to expect some money for the travel - service fund if the natural bill was not realized, as it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u187	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that this great document, the result of the second stage of a frame plan, after 20 years' work, is understood as Project 2 strategist and four professional groups appointed in 2007, whether it has become a target document after the 3 frame follows. It asks that eight benefits be checked, but not all of them could be checked if I quoted from frame 3, using President's permission: It was soon realized that there was something missing that would make all eight activations acceptable during the short time set aside, especially after realizing that there would be a delay in the order of professional groups because of the uncertainty of payments for the professional groups. [[Up front.]] It is clear that they failed to reach - they admit that they did not have all the benefits. [[Up front.]] And does this mean that frame 2 is not in force? I'd like to ask you what. A senator. Besides, they say: The methodology does not allow assessment of single activation options or very few activation options, as no significant comparison between costs can be made. I'm asking why. A senator: Does she agree or disagree with me in that frame 2 is in effect, apart from the factors involved in frame 3?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u188	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It is now once that information, whether in part 2 of the Framework or Part 3, should be taken into consideration. If, as in this case, the committee or the project management cannot handle any particular case, we need to be patient, then we must give the opportunity, not make the decision, and think that because of failure to make it possible, whether because of a lack of money or something else, we should just decide whether something should go to a novel party or not. It is my opinion that when new evidence appears, we should respect it. Hv. A senator has heard it many times that there was a reason for a better review, and that is why it is part of the explanation that no more was added to the novelty party then, but was suspended.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u189	A respectable president. I reiterate the question whether it considers that frame plan 2 is an value or whether the eight benefits were considered, are just those that are not valid anymore, or are all 66 positive. Do I get it right that they're not working? But it seems that the Power Institute, which has already worked in these professional groups with great poise and knowledge, says in its review, on permission of the president: ▪... as seems false to have been required in the treatment of the Generals. It seems that the most rapid evidence for the transport of the priming option from a waiting category was that they would need a better study of the effect on salmon fish in Þrjóðar. Such environmental evaluations, however, are initially considered in an evaluation of the environmental impact of action. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with this or not, what's going on here? Similarly, I reiterate the question about frame 2 if it's just out of force.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u190	Madam President. First, I'd like to say that these frame plans, verses 1, 2 and 3, have a beginning and an end. Now we have a frame 3 and, like, a what? A senator should know that we now work according to the law and according to a letter written by the minister of the 3rd Framework. If it's so that we have the beginning and the end of this, then it must be that the latest is in effect, right? With regard to the salmon population, I think we should show all the caution we can and should be evaluated as much as possible before deciding whether or not anything is put into use. Like what? A senator knows, if he listens carefully to my speech, I'd rather protect nature the most than the other, so he must understand my position that I prefer to have the salmon stock examined before the decision has been made to put something into use.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u191	A respectable president. I thank the senator for a fine material talk, so much so. At least I felt that she was just going off track, or there are things I want to ask why. A senator better. It's when she speaks of an attack on the land, and she feels it's urgent to protect the nation's interests and protect nature. It speaks of the inability of the present majority to cope with the protection of nature, complete surrender. Now the notes are about the salmon, and I'm gonna ask them why. A member of Parliament: Is it so that councilmen left greener and green have that attitude? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson well describes in his book The Year of Dragon, on Saturday, March 24, 2012, when he says: Within the state of VG, there is a group of strong environmentalists, one that has to do with the Guðfríður-free Lilja Grétarsdóttir's daughter, Björg Eva Erlendsdóttir's daughter and Bergur Sigurðsson, director of the Council, who is much more likely to abandon VG than it would be to pass over the Injuries. There he is describing the political treatment of the matter during his last term, and I ask him why. Senator: Is it so that members of the VG can't accept any of the continuum transfunctioners, since the activations of Þjótur are some of the activations that measure at the lowest level of environmental assessment? [[The president calls.]] [[Consider:...the more you listen to the talks in this discussion.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u192	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. To answer in terms of activation, of course, that, when we come up with logical support that we believe has followed the procedure, we accept it. But there are not all who agree with it at all, and there are not all who will vote for it, either within VG or in other categories, I think. But that does not change our accepting the legal process. About what? A senator and my colleague, Össur Skarphéðinsson, who himself has entered a torturete and tried to correct a problem. In terms of the horse trade, I have found him to have complained that the horse shop was not enough and that the case was not used in the European Union, as he wanted to do at the European Union application. [[Up front.]] So I believe, more dignified President, that he is. A senator who wrote the book answered it himself here and tried to correct members of the government. [[For example, consider: Your reading skills are lacking.]] [[The point is: Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.]] [[Set up the PISA scan.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u193	A respectable president. It is called upon to show that my understanding of reading was lacking when I quoted a book. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. It may well be, of course, that each one reads what he is reading with his own eyes. There are also different standards in horse shops. The members of the United States and the left green may be different from our own, but according to my standards, there is no other but a very gross political horse wedding on this matter. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] However, the measuring pole may be different, or it may be Fahrenhe's Fahrenheit on that town, but Celcius is different from ours. I'm just gonna get to it for a second. A senator said when she spoke of old - fashioned industrialism. The last energy I took part in finishing the council was about Bakka, and it was under the front of the left green. It was a major industry that called for more pleasure than any major industry on which law commission has been given. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. Senator: Was this bill left green, and our participation in serving it, big-time old-timerism? [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u194	President wants to ask why. Senators, to have slightly lower priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u195	Madam President. That's hard to deal with. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has to swallow it to the dog. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is trying to correct him here with a story explanation in his book. Of course, with what happened on Back and the indescribations there, we've already settled it like that, like a whale. A senator knows that large aluminium - based ideas are being replaced in a silica plant. We have also said, left green, that we are not against industry, that is often in fact. [[Up front.]] But we want to build up the land, like many other places. I hope so. A senator supports in many other parts of the country, which are far from the area, but not necessarily those closest to the country. On the other hand, nothing of that sort has been seen of the day, but here it is. A senator is an old - fashioned member of the case. [[Take it up: Conjugal roll-up.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u196	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. The 77th verse for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. Special discussions, housing issues. Adminent is Páll the Árnason, and in answer to that, Eygló Harðardóttir, social and housing minister. 3. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 4. Electrical law, system plan, EEA regulations, industrial and commercial bill, 305 cases, sector. 1005, page 1091 and 1226, modified 1092 and 1227, respectively. 5. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, the management of industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392, pages 973 and 986, followed by a follow - up of 1228. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u197	A respectable president. Now, we're back on the discussion of a change in the synopsis proposal for a frame plan, and I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. President of the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister, who has been requested for this discussion quite repeatedly. Not without reason. V.E.G. A minister digested the changes made in the changes made to a greater part of the employment committee, which would include taking out one of the advantages of changing the employment network laws, i.e. Rag water activation. We have not seen this proposal or the report that is expected to follow the proposal, so we have not seen the evidence of the greater part of the matter of taking this option out of the changing process of more parts. It is intriguing to see that reasoning, for if it is not exactly the lack of scientific evidence, I don't know what that argument is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u198	According to the local registry, the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister is not at the house, but it is of course a matter to inform the secretary that her presence was requested.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u199	Mr. President. I agree with you there's the highest power here. Of course, the environmental minister should be and listen to this discussion and be directed to the highest degree. President that she will be notified and asked to come here, stay, listen and participate in the discussion. Likewise, I miss that in the hall there's no reason. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who has the greatest privilege of the subject on the program and on the discussion. I'm asking the highest. A president would also be able to check whether he was in a house or in whatever way he would be used by civilians. I also agree that it would be good to see and make formal adjustments made here. We're in the second round. on this matter, and they really don't know whether or why to change from what is being discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u200	A respectable president. It's under the roof. Not like me and others here, who are a little strange that we're in the second round. ... ofa conjugal proposal where there's a ramification of the magnitude I don't have to go over here? Then come here, like a dog. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir said, making adjustments to that adjustment proposal, but there's no such thing. Then, like the prime minister, people come here and argue that there is a key to solving the labour market conflict that will be over but not coming here and going over the plan, and where these segments fit into it about how to solve these conflicts. I must say exactly as it is, more dignified President, that I have never experienced anything like this. I think all of this is indistinguishable, and a material discussion of this matter suffers while men do not come here and explain clearly what the plan is, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u201	The president does not get involved, but he answers for his conference board. It should be informed on the basis of a query. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the professional board, is in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u202	Mr. President. I'll repeat my wish that this case will be canceled but I'm going to proceed where I'm quitting the President's conference board earlier. Are we here because there's nothing to do at the council, and the government wants to cover up his lack of work? This government is very inactive, and I appreciate it, for most of its origins are a mess. However, there may be improvements due to collective agreements, which do not occur, or to finance the development of tourism, but they are not here. I'm asking, the highest. Mr. President: Is there any issues to take on the program now that are ready to be discussed at the council, or are we here giving the government an alibi so that they don't have to reveal their impotence? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u203	A respectable president. I thank you for the longer break of dinner that was done to pay for that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education could find and review important issues that might be a reason to try to resolve the end of the council. I think this has proved successful and can contribute to a more successful progress on the council program for the rest of our lives. With that spirit, I'm pointing it to the highest level. President that in the same way, a meeting will be called at a professional committee and the case that has been here for the introduction of the past few days simply referred to the Committee again. Here are some major issues that were not aware of when the matter was settled from the committee, and it seems that there is a serious misunderstanding that would be helpful for members of the committee to agree, and the matter would then return to late stages here for discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u204	A respectable president. By name, the idea is that a respectable president is the president of all members of Congress and the entire council and is generally with the council, but not with the government, if it's all right with you, and I just want to let myself talk about a team. There are plenty of cases that are worth talking about, and if we spend 1/50 of the time we spend here to carve up this program trying to figure out a common conclusion about how we should conduct the program, I dare say we've done a few things. There are a lot of things here that are good for discussion, and there are no disagreements about which we could finish, but are trapped here just because people want to keep these differences. It's totally pointless, a respectable president, and I think it's long now time that we start focusing on how we're going to work at the council. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u205	A respectable president. Still protests to the administrative body members of the program in this hall. Actually, it's the conduct of the government, the government, and, unfortunately, I want to say the highest. The chairman of this matter from the beginning with the omens. The Environment Minister is making a proposal for action, and this synonym is referred to a professional committee because it is quite clear that nature and the environment should have no doubt in the handling of this matter. A job - care committee suggests changes in budgets that have been judged by instruments, making it a problem with the laws on a frame plan, which is called in everyday speech. This protest, a respectable president, and I suggest that a meeting be terminated. If that's not done, we should at least have Mrs. Magnúsdóttir, the Environment Minister here to listen to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u206	The president can give the highest motive. The Environment and Resource Minister is expected to enter the building shortly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u207	Mr. President. I miss the opening man of this discussion, okay? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is not present. There are many ways to prepare for the discussion. Good boy. For the sake of this day, a senator has shown a keen and positive interest in later times in the literature of Icelanders and, among other things, in the book The Year of Dragon. Now it is discovered that he has not read far enough. For example, he has not read up until the section that discusses Urnarfrafrafs, but the book discusses Uryrs in exactly the same way that the leading members of the Independence Party have now been informed to speak in their own time. It would be very important to get out whether or not. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson does not feel the same way as described in the book The Dragon's Year on Urrass and, among other things, Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, in his day also declared according to the latest information. That's why I'm asking the highest. President if you can't move a dog. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, if he doesn't want to do so, here to the hall so that he can be asked about this unless, of course, his former legal director, can answer in his place. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u208	President has already informed. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is in a house, but to no other extent he can't read this literary lecture on the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u209	A respectable president. In view of what has been observed here, i.e. that we are discussing the adjustment proposal to the minister's proposal and a adjustment to the motion we have not yet seen, and the minister who spoke for the adjustment proposal is not in the hall, that the prime minister who has new reasons for the proposal and the motion over the head is also not here, if I am no better than we have to interrupt this discussion. Of course, I would like the matter to go off schedule, but the minimum thing is that we interrupt this discussion and try to adjust the situation. What is the argument of the greater part? We can't see them. We can only see the reasonings of the greater part as a result of breaking arguments at the highest. Prime Minister. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister is not at the site to explain the evidence behind the modification proposal for the changes we've been making for this discussion. This isn't going to work, Mr. Honorable President. We need to keep the evidence in front of us as we discuss it here. That's not something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u210	Mr. President. I have to agree with those who have spoken here, it's kind of remarkable to think that there's been a verbal proposal a few days ago and it hasn't so formally written in a formal way, so that it can be won properly. earlier this morning, the president of the council, Guðfinnsson K. Guðfjðursson, said that a work plan would be held. It's not a conference meeting on Monday, it's Tuesday, and it's a kitchen day on Wednesday. Then it's getting shorter, it's four days next week, and the election is one of them, so, in view of the fact that still a frame-up is a little special for you to meet here, and to be expected on every occasion, but when are these matters to be arranged if the Senate is to be normal? It is noteworthy that it is not confirmed that between the Parliament's president and the prime minister that some agreement has been made for the work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u211	V.E.G. President. Here is a repeated request that the program be changed and that we begin to discuss other matters, but this frame plan is provided with a program proposal to change the order. It's not too much later because we're in the second round. of a synonym. If not, it is very important to do so. As has been done all day long, the prime minister will be there for the discussion. I've been thinking about it since I've been watching the talk at the highest level. Prime Minister whether it is really normal at the highest level. Environment Ministers provide a bill, take it through the government with just one priming option, and then ask the prime minister of the employment committee to add suggestions. Hence, it can be concluded that this proposal appears entirely to be proposed. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and this is some way out back. Why? Is that a requirement for professional affairs, as we have been told? I feel very vague about this, so it is only natural for us to have at least a better explanation before we are given any further consideration in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u212	The president will normally arrange for ministers to be informed at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u213	A respectable president. I don't feel that we can hold this second round. on the matter unless Prime Minister arrives here and recognizes the major strategy for the workforce and the debates. If this case has suddenly become the key to a solution there, he must explain it. He can't just come to a question period with some sort of statement, he'll have to come here and talk to us about the big plans and how this case is a solution to the labour market. No one else is saying this. So far, it's just a prime minister's head. No one in the labour market is talking about it. The party is not calling for this case to be over here. That is why we need this information so that we can proceed with it. We can't go on and finish. It's a second round. The point. You can't finish it without getting it straight. I feel that he's going to be called here and give us a statement about how this case is involved in a workforce resolution because he seems completely alone to claim that it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u214	V.E.G. President. I agree with the United States vice president, it's important to get to the top. Prime Minister, come here and review this with us and explain it. I'm not a planning economist. I want to know how to handle this matter or how to help out for a fight. Why should it not be, for example, the funding of infrastructure in a travel service that is the fastest-growing sector in this world and that creates what is most remuneration costs? It is important to have information about this from a man who is expected to converse with another person. When we are discussing a job position that burns in disputes, we cannot offer half - wise references.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u215	Mr. President. As noted above, on Friday, May 29, the end of the council should be according to a plan. I'd like to ask a president if he can confirm that the Congress's program will be held. This means that there are six days left because Monday is the whites, and on Wednesday there is to be a kitchen day, and according to the norm. They're looking at a real mess, a respectable president. We're here with this big deal. The Minister of Environment has said that some adjustment should be made and we do not know what that adjustment is. This is a second discussion. There is no time to discuss the matter again on a committee and review it. It's a pain in the ass. The matter has to be taken off schedule. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u216	A respectable president. Of course, it can be understood, if at the height of the situation. Environment Minister can't be at the discussion tonight. So it is absolutely inevitable to postpone further discussion on the subject. If this is not to be referred to by a committee, it is their decision, but it is only natural to make the next issue on the program. It is not only that this is a administrative bill brought by the Environment Minister but, as presented above, has been called the Environment Minister of the Environment, a recent development that has been discussed in the government but has not yet been submitted, and therefore, there is a double reason why the Environment Minister needs to be here during this discussion. If this is not possible, I believe it is inevitable that the discussion will be postponed and held when the minister may be present.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u217	As the president has already informed them, he has the highest intelligence. The Environment and Resource Minister will be arriving shortly for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u218	Mr. President. I'm going to give myself the luxury of not accepting the demands of my party sisters at the highest. Prime Minister, please report to a meeting. I'm not necessarily sure the council is a better place with it inside the door. However, the highest. Prime Minister saw the ministers who proclaimed that a change would be made. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was shooting like a torpedo into the council. We need to see that suggestion and if we don't see it, at least we'll hear the suggestion. I expect it to be based on the logic reflected in the memo form of two offices, the Environment and Resource Ministry, and the Department of Professional Roads. If so, the same logic would also apply to The Devil. We need this in front of us so that we can discuss it. Therefore, I believe it is necessary that the case be postponed until it is established. You can't have it hanging in the air. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u219	Mr. President. I can say every word as it is. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said just now. It has, I think, little significance to the highest. Prime Minister sitting here, I have seen his answers appear to be of little value in asking him about anything. On the other hand, it would be desirable to appear in writing as the highest level. The prime minister argues regarding the payment of the matter presented here, i.e. what this should be in conversation. It needs to be here on paper on what it's all about. It doesn't mean giving it back to the councilroom and thinking that we can interpret things in some way. Minister. I'm sure we'd like to get into his mind sometimes, but I think we've got a lot of brains to be able to do it. Therefore, it would be most desirable to get written details on how this argument combines, i.e. to the General issue of a work programme in terms of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u220	Mr. President. The Generals calendar is in such a situation that I don't see how we should proceed tonight with it in these matters. I can't see that we really know the reasons we're supposed to use in the discussions on the issues presented here, so why and how are we going to discuss it? We need clearer answers from the highest. The prime minister to see how the matter presented here relates to his dress interview, but most important, we need to see the adjustments in the proposed changes to the highest degree. Prime Minister spoke first and the highest. The secretary of the environment was so impressed. Until we have made these adjustments, we can't continue to discuss this matter, and that's why I suggest it at the highest level. President, this meeting will be postponed until we receive these data.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u221	V.E.G. President. I forgot to thank you earlier that we had an hour off for dinner to meet you at night. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. There was a search for solutions, and that is exactly what we did a year ago; nothing has been done to solve the situation in the past year, we are back in trouble again. We're trying to save the situation, and I assure you, everyone is ready to do so. We are all ready to look for solutions and find solutions, so that all of us get the best out of it. This, of course, is the case in these matters too. I've repeated the length of time it would take if we were offering the suggestions here on the project management. We could finish Hlaming Syndrome quickly and then take the others soon afterwards, at the latest, at the beginning of autumn. If there's a meeting here all summer, as some say, we'll finish it there. But the violence being used here requires that we stay in this discussion forever, and there is no desire for them to work on a more reasonable solution, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u222	V.E.G. President. I come up here once more to sing the same song, to encourage the highest. To end this meeting and encourage more part of the employment committee to cancel this adjustment, withdraw it, and proceed with the case as instructed at the outset. Here, many have called for Prime Ministers to be in the hall, the highest prime minister in the hall, and comment on these matters. I'm totally against it, and I can totally agree with that. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Avenger, according to the highest degree. The prime minister expresses himself more in the media, in the council assemblies, or in the Assembly Hall, the more complicated the situation becomes. [[Up front.]] At any rate, the senator standing here, I don't understand what's going on. Therefore, while we are discussing the matter, I don't necessarily feel that I have nothing against him personally.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u223	A respectable president. I don't quite agree with this, I'd like to have the highest. Prime Minister in the hall because he insists that the priming plans on the table make a big difference in speech. I think it's very important to know what he's thinking in this context and to convince them about this matter, and then I want to be able to have a conversation with the highest level. Ministers, answer and so forth. I would then like to agree with members of the council who have spoken about the right to postpone this matter, taking in the important issues that the greater part says to wait. We do not want to stop them, this discussion may be delayed, and it may be delayed only until the prime minister is ready to arrive and explain what he means. His words are meaningful. [[The president calls.]] He is the prime minister of the nation, and he must speak clearly and explain what he means.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u224	A respectable president. There are plenty of cases waiting for 2nd. which we could be talking about. Here is one very simple bill about the equipment, the method of loyalty, and the safety of the workplace, and the affairs of those who are disabled. It seems that there is a relatively good agreement, one of the members of the committee's opinion is signing in advance. It's just one random thing, there's plenty of issues we could be discussing and spending more time with the council than in this part of the program, and then I'll admit that it's all about the program, not just the details of the transition that we're making. paritaprevir Instead, Jón Gunnarsson is the disagreement on the President's conference board, specifically the program, and the way it is determined. A respectable president. I would like to be a little solution and suggest that the future program be set in view of perhaps just a few more heads in order to have opinions on it. When more than one third of the council disagrees with the program, there is something significant about the President's meeting board, a respectable president. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u225	A respectable president. Clearly, in view of the information presented here, this issue is not too much for further discussion. V.E.G. The prime minister needs to explain how this matter has been discussed with the labour market members as part of a collective agreement or as a basis for collective agreements, since no employee organisation in the country is aware of having called after this abuse of power, so this is not at their command and is not their responsibility. It is also clear that we need to see the basis for taking action out of the change, and we need to see material support for the proposal so different. We are in itself discussing something that no one knows what will be exactly, for the suggestion has been announced. Now it would be reasonable for the committee to recall the matter to a committee, make the changes in the elimination of Hagah-water activation, and change the report in a consistent manner, and then we would be having a convoluted case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u226	A respectable president. Why does the program move so far? Why is it so slow? Is that surprising? [[Up front.]] If anyone's surprised -- no one's surprised, the whole government's involved in filing, stalling the case, afraid to... [[Nobody's surprised.]] [[Up front.]] I'm sorry for being self-condent. Only if the rest and those ministers are in the hall can they discuss this suggestion. [[Up front.]] There is no doubt about what is being discussed here. Here's a motion from a major part of the employment committee, it's here for discussion, and if you can't talk about it... [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u227	The president asks why. Councilmen giving a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u228	In case of a moment. The senators don't have the courage to discuss it here without any ministers around them, I don't know what. I encourage us to take a financial discussion and to finish this matter. [[The president calls.]] There are more issues to wait for, such as why. Senators have talked about it. I'm used to going to sea that if there's any cases waiting, you'll finish the case so you can get to the next case. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u229	The president asks for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u230	V.E.G. President. Former Secretary of Foreign Affairs, my ass. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, it's almost always getting me out of my hiding place, so I'm going to have to say something a little bit about my schedule. It is remarkable, then, that the word "thrack " has been used for the program, such as at the turn of the day. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson complains about. But I'm asking, "Who's asking you why?" Councilmen to argue over the program and repeatedly complain about the program, and at the same time ask for the interview by the head of a professional health committee? [[Up front.]] Maybe he'll just be at the meeting when it begins, but he doesn't need to be present for the President's conference board, that's no discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] No. Nobody's asking for it. I just enjoy these discussions about the President's conference board, and I have no complaints. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I request that all meetings of the Generals be shut down. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u231	A respectable president. The reason is that the meeting should be discussed, as well as that it should be made clear. The members of the council of Páll Jóhann Pálsson the son of Paul, and Braunzur the Brynjar of Níelsson, are now not clear. We do not know what it is or what reason it is. It has been made a fundamental change, a fundamental change has been proposed, the elimination of Hagah water activation. We do not know about the material evidence for it and, during the time, the discussion here is like a silly blinding game, for there is no material basis for the discussion. It is fundamental to have proposals at the General Assembly to have proposals in final form before they come for treatment at the General Assembly. The practice has been that when adjustments are made, the proposals are adopted to the committee, made of these changes, and thus restored to the Assembly Hall with an acceptable final support. It's not been done, and that's what we're calling out for, that the proposal is simply presented in an acceptable costume, and it's a business appendage that more than a part of the employment committee has been doing with a blessing and a desire to the highest degree. Prime Minister, they will be brought to an end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u232	Mr. President. It was now heard in the hall that this was the only suggestion in this case. That's the highest word. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Environment Minister omerk, is that it? Is this just one way to fake it? What play are we in today? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson? He brought a comedy before dinner that the purchase could not be increased until these continuum transfunctioners had started. The news showed me at night, and I don't think the radio's lying. If that's the case, I think there's every reason why the Ministers here are fully organized and everybody's watching this discussion, if we're getting the wheels started by finishing this case. Is it not true, then, that it is fully equipped here at the coven? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u233	A respectable president. It's a military matter that you come to a punk. This discussion has been going on for a week. [[Up front.]] I signed up on the rosary on the first day, and I'm not here yet. [[Foreground on, patience...]] These discussions are shameful, they are shameful, and we have to apologize to the people of the country for how the council behaves. [[Up front.]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] The manner here is, you're talking about the need to involve the labor and the work market in a discussion at the council. I completely agree with that, but why do you stand in the way of that? [[The point is, we don't.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u234	What business? What business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u235	You're the ones who've been speaking to one end of the council and the President's conference board, and this is the council and we here are shamed. [[The president calls.]] I apologize to the people for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u236	This government is out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u238	The president begs to hold to excessive prominence and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u239	V.E.G. President. This is where people have called for an opportunity to discuss the matter, and I simply encourage them to discuss the matter themselves. By now the hour is now past nine o'clock in the evening, and today there have been four talks on the matter, four members of the council have found out. That's what we're talking about. Other than that, men have been here in the press conference board. It was now quite an ornamental statement from the chairman of the United States of America earlier that he accused these four fine speakers of having a gritty discussion. I just disagree completely. There have been very good talks and topics since then. The members of the Council of Brynhilildi, the Oddný Brynhildur Harðardóttir, the party sister of the day. Chairman, Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son and Birks Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter. That one. Councilmen have given their objective views, and here they have a word with the rest of us who are following the discussion. I refuse to allow for the hearing of the United States chairman that those speeches were grizzly. All of this was very clear, and I urge more speakers to come here to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u240	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson spoke of this discussion as a disgrace to the council. I don't like talking like that much. The discussion here is now because it is urgent to protect professional practices and to protect the environment and its use, as well as legal procedures. A future generation will surely thank the government's stand for these things. I don't think so. The members of the greater part of the work committee receive no special graphics for their performance. I think it's worth a lot of effort to keep up the discussion, and we're not embarrassing the nation, but it's just the opposite.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u241	A respectable president. I had to leave the Assembly Hall at 5:30 this evening, and it's now 9:00. According to the rosary, I think I've been given one speech, they might have been two. But what a thrill it is to listen to speeches from the opposition, since often the United States and the Left Green are speaking for the nation, but now there is a problem. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir is also speaking for generations to come. A respectable president. I was invited here today because of the reason. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson to take his place in a speech. I see he's not next to the speaker's file, he's the next to the party. A respectable president. During the council, do members of the Parliament often take sides in a book of the oracles? If so, I'm going to accept it because I think it's time for a general to speak here on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u242	Of course, if there are arguments, such as promoting a division of the opposite viewpoints in discussions about matters, the president can do a series of speakers, and if it is in the proper agreement of the members of Congress, it is easy to grant such wishes. It appears that the President's conference board is well-runned at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u243	A respectable president. We're here to address a proposal for a resolution of a change in the synonym of a national protection and energy efficiency programme. It's under the highest proposal of change. The Environment and Resource Minister for bringing Hospitalisation of Achievement and then proposals of a greater part of the employment network that also suggest that Holta and Uror deactivation go to a novelty party, as well as Rock Age and Hag Sea with arguments presented in the Committee and in the revisions of more parts. We will also discuss a verbal adjustment that has been presented here by the highest degree. The Environment and Resource Minister that Hagwater activation will not be part of a change in the budget of the employment committee, but this proposal has not yet appeared in the Senate document, nor is the argument it must follow. There's been quite a few comments, and I'd like to ask for it, in the end of the day. The Environment Minister has entered the hall, and here also the chairman of the Council of the Agency's Parliamentary Party and the members of the greater part of the work committee, would be told what this adjustment is going to be and what a more detailed report it has made. It is very important to have logical support so that we know what is discussed. Although the President's conference board is not specifically discussed with this team, I believe that there is good reason to believe that I make a comment that the discussion is held, despite the fact that the subsequent proposals are not available in a Senate document and that the debates there are not available. I would like to review us here for what was started with the idea of a frame plan. I'm not going through the discussion to review names and landmarks or dates, but much rather the currents that have been going on and then led to the approach on a frame plan. There have been many reports of this particular subject, the 2011 bill for legislation, and since 2013, that there is an enormous amount of interest in the concept of a stratospheric plan, but there are also tremendous strong opinions and ideals. Little wonder, then, that when it comes to the discussion of this aspect of politics, there is constant communication and, more often, not much emotion. A Ramma plan was not intended to make peace, because peace will not be achieved in such a big matter. The final reconciliation will never be achieved on what to activate and what to protect. Many of us feel that we have had enough, that's enough, that's enough use, that's enough activation. Many of us believe that much, much more can be achieved and that energy resources can be used without hesitation than has been done. There are also such opinions. No matter how good it is, a Ramma plan will never settle that view. They are there, they have been there, and they will be there. A Ramma plan was thought of as some common understanding of plays and on the basis of the findings. For this long process, which covers nearly 20 years, the most important step may have been reached when the Law was given at the Council of 2011. Then at the General Assembly, we were lent ourselves to agree on this foundation despite the different views, i.e. To set a law on the process, the ideologies, on the procedure. As is the case when such a foundation is laid, we do not necessarily know at first what the defects of methodology will turn out, where we will be, where we will see ourselves, where we will find trouble, where we will agree, and where we will disagree that the tool will benefit us as it should. The discussion, as it has been since the change. The majority of the employment committees were observed, have actually been concerned with interpretation, have been focused on interpretation of these laws, what can be done, and what cannot be done. We have so much to learn about this interpretation. We've got memos from the Ministry, which follows a framework of the Management Board, the Environment and Resource Ministry. We've got a memo from the Department of Professional Railroads. We have a review from the Organizational Organization, which will oversee and oversee the environmental assessments and environmental assessments of action. All these narratives give us guidance and guidance on how to understand this precious tool. So now that the proposal is being discussed after the Passover, there are two differences, whether or not the proposal is over, because it is not a change in motion, it is much more than that, and on the other hand, whether the proposal is a law on the framework. The president has decided, he has decided, but the decision, whether in terms of legitimate or that the proposal rests on a framework plan, actually goes in a different direction than the other opinion we have in our hands. That's bad. It is very bad for matters that weigh as seriously as a frame plan, because it is important not to disagree that the process in itself is legitimate, i.e. that the conclusion of the process is in order to pass by law. The prehistory is not merely about nature protection and innovation; it is not only about attempts to paint a field in which we can get together and agree on rules and processes; it is also about the history of political conflicts. It is also a story that is one of the extremely complex political conditions of the years after a collapse. It's one of many threads that helps spin the weirdest web we'll ever look to; some look back; some are quicker than others to paint a picture of what happened. I feel that in some respects we are still involved, not only in politics but also in a community. This section of the discussion began to focus on the process of elections in 2013 that by the 2011 process and the provisional principle of the law, nonverbal political intervention would have been involved. The debate has reached a considerable extent of flight throughout the years, mostly in the context of the 2013 election, which has been persistent, has come to its surface over and over and over again, and the Book of Christmas. paritaprevir The Acquisite Össur of Skarphéðinsson, the year of the dragon, has been widely used as an aid to that argument. The discussion is actually about two things, one of which is that the law expected a twelve - week reporting process. We counsellors - we were delivered when the case began, the one standing here, and the one who did. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir and later wíth. paritaprevir For example, a daughter of Harðardóttir G., both of whom served as industrial minister's office, was designed to put the classification into a review procedure for 12 weeks. We had a huge problem because there was not a clear rule in the legislation on how to use the ultimate order. I know why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who was actually to be classed, often held on to the conclusion of the 2012 task management program. There we were merely assigned out of the professional groups. What we did was that we made a decision on what I think was still very successful, to get the presidents of these trade groups and the chairman of the project board, along with one of the attorneys from each Ministry, environment and industry, to classify the activation options into these three categories. I personally thought, and the opinion was of no importance in the discussion, that we had been there at the time, that the waiting party had been most fortunate, that we had tested the process so that we were less involved in conflict with it, and that we gained confidence in the process before it became a very difficult situation. However, this group, with the lawyers at the table, found that, on the basis of the laws they looked like, that the only perennial approach was that in a waiting party, they merely made priming options in which the data were missing and the other benefits were to live in either the neo- or protection class. Then we arranged for 12 weeks of open reviews, and out of that notice, there was an enormous amount of comment. A great deal of the comments had been made earlier in dealing with the project management and other people who kept the frame plan, because the process was very important that the process was open all the way. We thought it was a perplexing approach to say, " Let's report the comments that have not been made in earlier stages. ' They were primarily about two areas. For example, there was an enormous amount of comments about the Smokeman, very much. These comments were all about how precious and irreversible that area was, but they had previously been made. However, the comments on salmon in Þjórður and the comments on the personality of the Lakes River National Park were not prominent in early reviews. We decided that out of 67 options, six choices would be offered to improve our outlook. With us? No. Project management. Because it had been logical in particular. I don't think anybody's doubting it in itself since this incident happened that there was every reason to consider what was called salmon because we are, in fact, one of the largest and most valuable salmon stocks in the North Atlantic. We cannot shrug off and say: " We don't need to look into it any more. If that's what qualified scholars have reason to worry about, we can't do that. But we didn't think it was our job to measure it permanently. Rather, we needed to take a closer look. The same thing about the close-up with Lake Bay National Park as I think, in fact, a respectable President, is that there's good reason to look at it better, in a larger context at the council, what we want to do with Iceland's highlands. I feel that the discussion is growing on the edge of this trend that there are values that transcend all energy efficiency because they are globally unique, they are also unique in Europe. Tourism also gives much evidence of these changes in its comments that going in there is a particularly precious area that is extremely inconceivable. It was political intervention. Those were my fingerprints and theirs. The Minister of Industrial Affairs, who was responsible for the government's office. Then the story ends with the renovation of what? paritaprevir The Aggressive Össur of Skarphéðinsson after being in the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurfuson, who believed that it had not been done enough, by the United States, to use this case and this position against the VG's in terms of some kind of political horse wedding to set VG up more than was done. He believes it wasn't as new as it needed. They have read a chapter of power from that book and have said that it had already proved that political horse trade had taken place. I'll take less of it, then. At that time, we were, in fact, a minority government, but in all of these matters, nature protection laws, framework and other environments, we always had 38 votes here in the hall. Why was that? That's because of what happened. Councilmen Atli Gíslason, Lilja Mósesdóttir, Róbert Marshall, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Þór Saari, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir always stood by the environment government. [[Up front.]] And what plans did they have for these matters with Sigurðardóttir Sigurdirddir, or Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, I have not heard? I haven't heard that. A respectable president. The 20 - minute period was faster than I had realized, so I am not very much in my speech. But I'd like to say it's a lot out of sorts to make this suggestion, as is done here. Not just because I disagree materially with its contents but because there is much more at stake. There is much more at stake here, and you can breathe in your belly and wait for the project management to finish their work and respect the progress outlined in the 2011 Law. If you believe that the process is not good enough, that is not clear enough, then the law needs to be reviewed, and so must be done in transphery, for it does not work out for future generations. We are on machines about something that we do not have alone, as the natives of the United States have often said, borrowed from our children. Therefore, we need to take care of all the valuable things. My assessment of the situation, as it is now, is that it is no less effective than to draw a change of ideas. More than a part of the job board is back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u244	V.E.G. President. I thank the former environmental minister very much for her good speech and review of her history. I wanted to ask you why. A candidate in the Act on a Framework Programme adopted here on May 11, 2011, with all terms paid by people of all categories. How Would You Answer? mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Prior to proposaling for Congress, the secretary shall present it to the judges who distinguish at 3 mgr. 10th par. and give everyone a chance to express comments in a specific way. The Senator explained that there were many comments. Would it have been reasonable to ignore those comments? Why would this be the case with the Law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u245	A respectable president. All developments in the environment and nature protection laws in the countries around us, and including those in Iceland, have fallen toward increasing and strengthening public access, reducing public media control and increasing public access, strengthening the status of rural society and strengthening the position of the public not only in decision-making but also in the process of opening up the whole process and making it visible and beneficial. In fact, the contract involves strengthening the public's approach, and we were initiating its last article or support during the last term, and we did so in a transnational partnership. It's about exactly this, strengthening the public's access. So I think this article actually reflects evolution in legislation in general on the environment and nature protection laws, but no less... Yeah, that's exactly what had to happen, that one minute was suddenly zero. The rule of caution is a natural rule that we have applied to the international world, so that is something we needed to keep in mind and to take into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u246	The president asks why. A senator's dignity, but unfortunately, the clock was accidentally set for two minutes, but it was supposed to be on its own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u247	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before and as a very good environmental minister at the time, this rule is natural. That is why I wanted to say that when I made the ultimate proposal. The Environment Minister came into the council started a great conflict, for, of course, she should have gone to the environment and transport committee but was taken and assigned to a job board. We now know why it was done. Then I'll ask why. A senator: Does it consider it to be the conduct of more part of the employment committee in the spirit of the Precautions and in the spirit of the Peace Convention? Does it seem to be the job committee, then, that they have knowledge of their laws and the boundaries in which we work within them in order to do so fully?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u248	A respectable president. Once when the Specialist Party was in a campaign campaign then the headline continued - nothing stopped. I have sometimes thought that the heart of candidates is quite close to that of those who are the pro-life drivers of the Independence Party. I'm not here to argue that they're going to do something bad. There's simply a great difference in meaning on the journey, but the motion's not in the spirit of the law. In fact, I believe that it is contrary to the law as it is stated, but it is not in accordance with the spirit of a code. I believe that if more of the council wants to be done in this way, he must take the step to the full and revise the law or be a special law on this particular advantage. But this cannot be done on the basis of existing laws on a framework plan, for it will never be held in court.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u249	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A candidate for a very extensive and effective talk. I'm glad she found out at this point. It is true that not all of us agree. On the other hand, I agree with the senator - a project manager on frame 2 was not established - that when we were at that job, you did not realize that the waiting party would be so narrow, but there was some debate about sorting these advantages. I know that both I, who believed that there could be several more active, and another agent, who was completely in conflict with me, were just as surprised that this was the result. But this was the will of Generalis, the law was given in this way, and sharing is not enough. - And I only got one minute, Mr. President, it's way too short.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u250	Yeah, and one minute goes by in one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u251	A respectable president. As I took part in my speech, I think we would have been somewhere else if the waiting party had been more extended, and I think we agree on that. On the other hand, we may be able to hang it on the law; we are naturally driving it for the first time, so to speak. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister has also talked about her wanting to see the device work once; and now, where the provision is not being carried out, it's only the law as it was presented in 2011. It would then have the product that came from an undistracted task management framework. I think it would be very important for us to borrow to look at it in some distance, if we weren't so trapped in the sand that we're sometimes trapped in here at the council. If we could just get out of this dump and watch a 50 - year - old scale or something, we would say, "It was very important that a frame plan would go through one traffic and we'd see how it was going to work without interference. "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u252	V.E.G. President. Yeah, let's get a little farther out of this scale. If we think internationally, would it not be so, Mr. President that we are required to engage much more because we have green energy, which other nations do not have as much and do not have the same knowledge as we do? I've always wanted to know from the left green, because I think they're thinking about the environment of a narrow ball around Iceland, and I don't quite understand how it can rot in a global context: Is it just so that we Icelanders have to shoulder responsibility to the environment just by acquiring more green energy and using it for the good of the whole world?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u253	A respectable president. Now it's very bad to have only a few minutes and it's nice to see the tin in the eye of a man. A senator when she came up with this question. I don't agree that VG is only looking at a narrow domestic interest. We have also talked very much about climate, and there are not many who have been available in this discussion with us. For example, the embarrassing situation now is that Iceland has not provided its climate targets for the fall meeting in Paris - as far as I know, at least I have not seen them. But just because of these views. A senator is talking about, and we also need to look to our responsibility as we work on carbon fuels or oil. There, the natural problem is the greatest threat to climate and the earth's atmosphere - carbon incineration and greenhouse gas emissions. There we may begin to talk if we ever get a talk at that part of the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and perfunctory speech. Finally, we'll talk about it objectively. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion of the situation. We have a project management for frame 2 which worked very hard with a number of professional groups, all of whom paid off and worked very well. They gave in to the impressions and arranged for priming options. Then we've got a frame plan 3. That task management is asked to consider eight benefits, but it seems that they are unable to organize only three of any intelligence. Then I'd like to ask. Former Minister, she knows these matters very well, whether the frame 2 is still valid, i.e. the activation options not included in frame 3. [[The president calls.]] Can we not agree that all the work that lies behind frame 2 is at least in force, even if we argue over these eight benefits? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u255	A respectable president. The situation is, in fact, that straggler 2 completed his job and returned his job to the minister of his time, as I crossed the country earlier. Then, in 2011, the project management panel 3 will proceed. It will have at least four years to process the 2013 approved group and the benefits added. The minister then sends the project management a letter asking for a quick assessment of these eight options. The task management is aware of this, and the conclusion is that only one of those eight is immediately ready, because a minister was in a hurry to get results. That's why we're here with this proposal for Hlamming, eight options only became this one. This does not change the fact that stratosphere 3 is still in progress and the task management of Framework 3 will complete the work programme with all its advantages and will submit its expected conclusions before the four years have passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u256	A respectable president. It is good to know that we agree on this. That means, if I get the point. Senator correctly, frame 2 is in force until after four years when frame 3 returns complete data. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress how she could come to the conclusion of presenting four or six waiting priming options, at least Three of them scored a full house ladder for the project management while giving the activation initiatives that are at peace-infested people on Smokejanes and the natural bulbs that are theirs. I've only studied the reviews, as it turned out. A member of the Sanhedrin, and these were numerous, repeatedly pointing out that the benefits were to remain in the Neon class, but the benefits of a full house were made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How can this be reasoned?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u257	A respectable president. I thought I'd gone over it before. A senator is referring to the lists of the professional groups who underwent a strategistic process that followed an open review procedure. It was in this open process that showed the evidence of the salmon in Þjórður, and of the Cradle and the Roads in close proximity to the Lake Earth. There were special and new arguments that we thought were reasons to look more closely, and the step 3 task management then received a letter from a minister requesting that this be taken into consideration. Regarding whether frame 2 is still in force, there was a stipulated 2 endpoint in January 2013. Hv. A senator cannot take some point from the process that pleases him or as his servants aims because what we have in our hands is actually the final result of the council. [[Up front.]] Of course, it's where frame 2 counts, what's in the protection class, what's in the novelty class, and what's in the waiting category. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u258	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is in the same area as a dog. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade board, in terms of taste in later periods of literature, however, is far beyond his ability to read and understand them. You're absolutely right. One senator said of how I understood my description of certain incidents, so I was trying to succeed, not win a beauty wage. In case of a moment. A senator would continue to read the book then she would also see my view of the salmon. It turns out that I don't give much for them, I didn't give them, and my attitude has not changed much. It has nothing to do with the fact that I have a special attitude toward Urfyrus. But on the matter of what? A senator said that it was only the salmon fields that made it so that this change was made, and I ask why. Senator: If she received data to show her that the salmon fields were not valid, would she accept these activations in the lower part of Þjórður wound? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u259	A respectable president. There's the same tint in the eye. paritaprevir Össur of Skarphéðinsson's son, just like Konráðsdóttir Brá Consbydóttir. First of all, I've read the whole book, and it's not necessarily been fun all the time, but we'll go over it later. Regarding the salmon fields and whether I remembered my parts would agree on the results of a frame plan if the proposed lower part of Þjórður would go to a novelty, then it is, as mentioned earlier in my case, that I myself believe that there is enough energy in Iceland. I have that opinion of my own. But I still believe that a frame plan is a valuable and important tool that should be honored, but I still have the right to be a nature protector.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u260	Mr. President. It wasn't always fun to write it, either. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] On the contrary, it is often very difficult to face myself, and I am not in the book to try to dress myself at all, but I am sometimes surprised by this man who took some things to achieve success, but never beyond what may be called my convictions. But that's another story. I don't make any comments, though. A senator, taking in all the information on the salmon populations of the Þjójórður, continues to believe that the lower part of the United States should not be activated. It is not on the basis of the salmon fields that I take my stand on Urfyrofos. It is on the basis of other arguments that I describe in my own book. I think it's perfectly defenceable, but later I will, if I ever find that in this discussion, I'm not even on the rosary, then account for my position on these inducers and salmon, but it doesn't matter that I believe that the law and order are to be done. [[The president calls.]] And I'm not going to participate in accepting one or anything that doesn't fulfill it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u261	The President will tell you why. A member of the Parliament that it is very difficult to find out in the discussion unless you are on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u262	A respectable president. I want to say something like that. A senator with regard to the Uryrofos, and this is a very special display of a beautiful waterfall, which is to be satisfied just for that. That's quite enough, that argument is completely enough, and it's going to pass all the frame plans of the world, so we agree on that. And in fact, in 2012, several members of the Independence Party thought that putting Uryrs in a novelty party would require considerable pause. Financial and economic ministers, who in no way considered it to be a question at all that it was justified to use the Urrafras and not just because of the many salmon fields. I would like to have a place to say. A senator of some time, and especially in the General Assembly of Congress, on how he has been successful in surviving in politics for as long as the book of the Year of Dragon is certainly included in today's political mystery. But he may also succeed in writing more books.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u263	The dragon's path.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u264	In the path of the dragon, yes, it will be the next book.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u265	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur - now I can't remember Björn's father's name for having given me his seat on the rosary. [[Up front.]] It's a little special standing here talking after what's happened. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter, who served as environmental minister in the last terms of terms, is here to review how the purchases took place in the island during the last term. The decision adopted by Congress at the previous council was to address a national protection and energy prevention programme, based on a professional basis. It was not, for it was based on genuine old - fashioned politics, despite the fact that those classes, greens, and the Conspiracy, do not recognize and eliminate all of them. So here I am determined to go over my career, hoping that there will be no peace in me. I am here to benefit from my last term, which went over 2012, and that is the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. paritaprevir Acquisite Össur of Skarphéðinsson, year of dragon. Now, I'm going to quote the book, with the permission of the president: March 5th. A traditional Ministerial Conference that begins in a peaceful manner turns into a sharp setback between me and Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir from the frame to the EU. It begins with a delay in the activation of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, who is also a industrial minister for the time, saying that they completed a contract with the VG, and the results include a delay in the activation of the halls and Orri Vigfússon's arguments for salmon establishments to explain the continuation of During the Year. - I repeat, the argument between Orri Vigfússon's son regarding salmon settlements should explain the suspension of the ulcer. - The other side should take the Southnes by flamethrowers into a party. It is likely to help with the Helguvík. Then, at the end of my talk, I will discuss what was actually put into a novelty party of the former government and why. Now I'm returning to the book, with the permission of a president: The panels want to take the case through the government tomorrow - and emphasize that all the Ministers ensure that the council supports the case. With the Ministers of ◯ They're naturally referring to me. They know well that the frame will never be so altered through the council unless I take the bait. Jóhanna says that VG cannot live with a different conclusion. It would lead to an end to the government. Sciences, either semi-or full, of the imminent violation of the government, have become a little worn out to me. However, I do not question her comments that this conclusion is just as important to our team of colleagues as our attendance. Oddný diplomatic intuition, I have been consulted before the meeting, I have read text with it, and I have indicated that at the right time, I might wish to support the situation. However, I recall to prime minister that both the IPA and the agricultural negotiations are upset and refer to the recent reports of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon son of whom I interpret, so that VG is wondering if we could put our chair before the door, we could not open the marine and agricultural section before a year's tournament. I want Jóhanna, the head of the category, to get the EU case clear with VG before the frame continues. I think it's a good idea for me to keep these matters in my hands. Next time, I'll pull down on Saturday, March 24th, with the permission of a president: ▪ The VG is a group of strong environmentalists, which include In connection with the Guðfríður - fearing daughter of Lilja Grétarsdóttir, Björg Eva, the Erlendsdóttir of Erlends and Bergur Sigurðsson, director of the Council, who will rather leave the VG than abandon the tributary. The group is already dogging into VG minister for agreeing to take the Firethrows on the Southernnes into a novelty party - and correctly linking with the proposed plant in Helga. The VG advisers who insist that the frame will be replaced by a change that Jóhanna has agreed to make do not feel as much as a large section of the Group does not back up the Chairman's proposal. That's the first time it's happened. On top of it is the threat of action from Europe, which arouses strong waves within the category. V.G.'s got a lot of cash over the situation. On my side, six to seven members of the council have expressed doubts about the box in my absence. Kristján L. Möller is the largest person in this group. He believes that construction in Helguík is needed to get the wheels started, and he is frustrated with both Jóhanna and VG. The same applies to the Árni Páll Árnason and Björgvin G. Sigurðsson. The latter has doubts about elections today. Then I'm going to call the senator's attention to this sentence: I have not secretised myself wanting to delay the framework to have it as the power to ensure the protection of the VG by the EU application up to the year. Finally, I'm going to refer to a journal entry on Monday, June 18, in this excellent book entitled The Year of Dragon, by permission of Presidents: The frame stands off. It won't be done until fall. For VG it means as much as the EU is for us. Most people are aware that I view the box as a guarantee that the VG will not stop the EU. So many were words. Despite the wind. paritaprevir In a speech before me, Sóggis Svavarsdóttir said that Össur Skarphéðinsson was wrong and the truth is obvious, for no one believes it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson that he published a book that wasn't based on truth. I can also confirm this after working here during my last term as a new senator. There was no secret that the EU was the cohesion's price for protection of the wound. This was invented by the salmon fields of the Þjótur to keep The Major out of the continuum transfunctioner. It's a political raw skin game. What this led to, the agreement of these two classes during the last term, is clear to all. The Company was allowed to submit applications to the European Union and left greens extended through a frame plan, through a frame plan where the activation initiatives agreed were overthrown during the last terms, a 14 year job that had been processed by a number of sources, including Companys and other fine people who were in those groups during that 14 - year period, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir As we noted earlier, Unnur's Konráðsdóttir, who has spoken here in reply tonight, in this tone of voice, has a person with full perspective and knowledge of the matter. This was changed, a respectable president. That was the war throughout the last terms, leaving a 14 year contract and agreement process in all of this. Hv. paritaprevir Last week, Svandís of Svavarsdóttir said that the present government group is pursuing a business of freckles. It has been two years since this elected period - what political party is engaged in a business of business at the council if not the left green relative to the current criteria? A group that was not elected by 90% of the people expect the current government to have a good course in the last election to continue with the direction of the left green. Is it the democracy that all are calling for, that the ideal government cannot achieve its policy, but instead of sailing after previous government policies, a policy obtained by horses to the Union that received its only policy, to submit an application to the European Union, which sailed on the coast in 2011 when the EU could not provide a review report in the marine section. A respectable president. All last term is marked by high waste, waste of time, waste of energy, waste of money, aquifers due to the agreement made by the government groups. They bought each other's case, and this is the outcome. So, these groups here now do not continue to allow the case to develop a flourishing job life in harmony with nature by the resources we have and expect the current government to enforce their policy. It's quite remarkable. A respectable president. I said that I would come back to the political decision taken during the last term with a synopsis of a national protection and energy prevention programme that was actually ridden to which the project management had founded. This decision was adopted on January 14, 2013. It was addressed to the salmon farms, and it had been found that there was some evidence to remove the hydropower activation option in Þjórðar, and that was the salmon beds. This is made clear in the book The Össur of Aphesar, the son of Skarphéðinsson. Next, I'm going to say this: Anyone who's ever involved in the activation and use of natural resources knows that hydro-efficiency is the most economic advantage. Water-engineering is causing the least disturbance in nature. Water - supply workers will be hundreds of years old because they are being activated by water that flows indefinitely. This wanted left green change and created activation options in the Þjórðar for a waiting party. Instead, it was a way of entering a peace - informed territory, a peace - tell - tell - people - on Smokeynes, with high - temperature inducers. What you can say about high - temperature inducers in this country is that there is very little experience with them. They are very involved in protecting and the environmental reasons why high - temperature intensities are being emptied. They can be emptied in 2,575,80 years depending on how powerful they are. These environmental issues were not considered or used as evidence in the left green and the United States during the last terms. The priming party included several high - temperature regions on the Smokejanes and the high - temperature area around the Krvas. Then we come to the other agreement as a matter of course. The current council members of Harðardóttir Hardydirdótttir and Svandís Svavarsdóttir did when they were ministers in the last government, huh? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir was environmental minister. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir served the Minister of Industrial Affairs for a short time. Then it was emphasized to show that there was a significant willingness to build on Smokejanes. I will not minimize the problem on Smokeynes, but the energy derived from Þrjórður would have been that way in its time, would have been used by Smokeynes, and is far safer energy and less environmental corruption. By doing this, the then industrial minister put his prints on a project that she was doing for her district. Then we come to the other chapter of this agreement. Backing up in the Northeast standard, Bakka had to be done, and that is why the high - temperature areas around the Cruces were placed in a novelty party. Nor do I belittle the need to build up in the Northeast standard, but electricity is certainly mobile in the country. In fact, even today there are ideas about placing electrical cables in Britain. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir did not answer the question that came from a member of the council why they were introduced into the peace - informed people on the Smokejanes and proposed to put high - temperature activation into a colony. We need to answer these questions, but they are based on an economist politics. I'd like to say that those innovations approved by the last government are not much less environmentally friendly than those of the activation initiatives that are now being provided by the greater part of the employment committee. There's always talk of the emperor's beard. We are faced with an effort to submit the will of a project administration that had organized these water activation into a novelty group and then spoke of the forwarding and the Independence Party as some activation groups, when we are primarily considering our natural resources and how they will be best used and at least aggressively exposed to nature. It is not possible to talk about the environment without also speaking about natural resources, since these two are unestablished ends of environmental rights and resource rights based on the same basis. The advance team is a green category, and the senators of the Agency are all environmentalists, so they say. The fact that we are something else, I refer to the Father Houses with the change to the highest degree. Environment Ministers set forward and have spoken for and proclaimed changes to the end is the highest. Environment Minister flexible and sensible. It withdraws this single activation, as it is not quite ready even though it was during the last terms. This is the situation, a respectable president. There is nothing else. This inconsistency in the past week, where the groups now in the government stand won't allow the case to take place, talk about the President's conference board, shows that the cause is very weak, very bad when it comes to the evidence and how this story is all gone. [[Up front.]] I'm telling people what to do. paritaprevir Acquisite Össur of Skarphéðinsson, year of dragon. There, though, the horse shops appear. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir says that she did not look at things that way, but all who served here during the last term were aware of what was going on. The crown of the left green, of Iceland, and of the Continental diadem, of walking in the European Union, was at stake with both categories. It was written on this basis, and the last term reached virtually every detail in these two cases. We know that. This is official, this is the basis for the case, and hopefully this will explain it to the people of the country who are looking at the General Assembly on the basis of what has been built up for more days. The President's conference board has been talking about for less than three days. It's based on this foundation. We always need to see what the foundation is before we start talking and arguing about other matters. A respectable president. I propose a greater part of the employment committee and the changes made by the Commission because this is what we're supposed to build, to get energy where it's most practical, and to cause the least damage to Iceland's nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u266	A respectable president. There is much to discuss in a meaningful talk. Senator. I'm going to start by mentioning one factor, and that's about it when it happened. A senator will find out how this suggestion is being made. V.E.G. Environment Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, concluded that no more prime option could be put before the Council than the Hagming in which mission management had not finished the other benefits. On the basis of the task management board, it is clear that work is not finished with the other advantages. Hv. A senator would agree with some difficulty. paritaprevir In a discussion on the 17 December 2012 frame plan, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir said about Urnar-resurance activation that it would probably be spared during further investigation. There is now the position of the Commission that further investigation needs to be carried out on Urcratic activation. [[The president calls.]] How does that justify what's happened? A senator of this transition?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u267	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's aged Árnason for this inquiry. I don't have a lot of shit going on here. Of course, the Uryrofos and the activations above will not be started at the top of the water supply. That's how hydropower workers work. There was just a doubt about Urcratic activation during the last terms. I don't want to say anything like that, but it just needs to be considered, and it's going to be discussed at the council. That's where you're going. A senator at the moment. A former environmental minister would have suggested this. I don't know. At the time of that convention, the U.S.A., a member of the Parliament received the matter. The secretary of the environment spoke for the case, and that is how it is for the Generals and members of Congress to make adjustments. Senators have the authority to make the changes they want with every language that enters the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u268	A respectable president. Studies are conducted on Uryrofosactivation, they are not finished. These include whether the activation has irreparable effects on salmon stocks in the river. It simply has nothing to do with the activation in the river, because the salmon first goes up through Uryrofos, and that is where most is wrapped in this area. I'm going back to what I mentioned earlier, okay? Three years ago, a senator said that during the research period, it was normal to wait for Uryrofos reactivation. They are still standing, and what is the right thing to do? It has basically been changed, and then. Of course, a member of the body must respect the element as the highest authority. A member of the environment, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, came forward at his own time. Of course, they were a real sense of humor, put out by him, and I think it's pretty light if it is. A senator is going to overlook absolutely what her platoon minister said. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u269	A respectable president. Thus, if the law and the synods are read together, it was discussed that the project management may have gone a little beyond its authority and entered a stage where it was really not supposed to go on and that has been retracted, they may have gone too far to evaluate environmental impact. But as for that, as a matter of course. The senator referred to, first to determine the method of activation, the decision to put the element's activation into a category, and it will be followed by the implementation of the environmental assessment. Then it will be discussed to see if the salmon strain in Þjójódra is vulnerable to the lack of access to these inducers. That's what I'm talking about. Senator to know well. So the two must not be confused. It was on that basis that I built my position during the last term, because it was overdue at this rate, but the professional evaluation remains. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u270	A respectable president. I notice a certain tendency among many of my good friends, who examine a lot of online documentarys and study what is called or invented conspirators but who are often, what to say, different ideas. I see that logic is often based on the fact that something much more and deeper is being read out of words than is actually found in them. People see a man who is highly respected in an interview, and he says something that is so used as proof that the government is lying or that a fatal conspiracy is going on. There's a lot of reading out of words. I get the same feeling when it comes to it. A senator quotes a book at any point. paritaprevir Acquiess Skarphéðinsson's son, in case you don't mind. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir acts like the words of a book. paritaprevir There is evidence that Skarphéðinsson's mind was unhealthy behind the left - green stand, but of course it is. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson in the United States, but not in the left green. He doesn't agree with it. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's trouble with salmon, so I don't quite understand how. þm. Vigdís Hauksdótttir finds that ideas have gone wronghv. þm. I don't know if Skarphéðinn's hugmynd youhv. paritaprevir Cheeky Svavardóttir. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's not enough time, I suggest it be extended.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u271	A respectable president. It was a bit confusing, but I remind you, these two people here. Councilmen mentioned by the senator now sat in the government together, and that is just one government table. A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. A senator hints at the point. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is telling the truth in his book?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u272	Is it Svandís to answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u273	A respectable president. I don't know how. A senator managed to interpret my words that way. No, what I was pointing out was just the opposite. The members of the council are Svandís Svavarsdóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson, and they were in different categories. There can't be any trouble. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is surprised to learn that ministers of different categories need to come to some sort of agreement on how they continue. All governments work that way, they should not come anyway. Surprised by a senator. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, on the other hand, has doubts about these salmon fields, and that is why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who writes the book. But when he writes that it's the other or this argument against applying to the Þjórðððið, it goes. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir as if there were someone's word from the left green, which is simply not the case. I don't know what it's like. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttóttir concluded that the evidence left green used was some kind of unhealthy when they are read from a book at the end of the day. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I hope that's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u274	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. I studied it very early in my speech when I was reading a book. paritaprevir Össur of Skarphéðinsson's son had been determined to use salmon fields to appease all priming options and to back it up--forgive, to wait, to excuse. [[To... hold.]] [[Up front.]] The person who was presented to them reasoned with them and the one who is said to use the argument in a book of origin. paritaprevir Acoustics, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, is Orri Vigfússon, an expert on salmon stocks in the North Atlantic. It simply stands in the book, and I don't believe it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is that he is lying in his book. But I encourage the senator to read the book because it's all very clear then. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I don't have to revise my speech I gave earlier. [[Up front.]] That was very clear in my speech. This was the price for left greens to give in terms of the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u275	Mr. President. It has been a mixed feeling to sit behind a reading of a building in the Agency of the Laundromat, where we read about the excitement of the Össur of Skarphéðinsson from the last term. And since I know what to do. A senator is now pleased to hear from her if she felt that this novel was bulletproof in a lawsuit, whether this is the evidence that more of the employment committees offer to support this change. I'd also like to know what she has on legal opinions that have come from the Environment and Resource Ministry, which says that the Council should not consider activation options unless they have been discussed in project management and followed by a proposal to the Minister, as was done at the Supreme Court. Minister, Sigurður Jóhannsson, and whether she supports her former environmental minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u276	A respectable president. The truth becomes most angry, and I'd like to ask the senator to respect it if this has raised bad feelings, to recall that year as a boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson goes over in his book. If there is a question based on the book, then the writer must be at least put on a witness list to answer it. But it's okay for me to get a chance to answer for it. I remind you that it was thought that came from the Environment Ministry rather than from a ruling. Now the matter is with the council. The matter is in the hands of the council. The case is with members of Congress. Here, the president of the council has decreed that the matter is met, and members of Congress must comply with the order of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u277	Mr. President. Now he talked. A senator in his last term has a lot to do with the national rights of Iceland and is very interested in being a state of justice, which we all want. What does it say? A senator's mismanagement of legal means in these matters? Well, maybe. A senator stands by a violation of the U.S. justice like that. A senator has a lot of ambition to protect Iceland's state of justice? I'd like to hear from what, too. A senator on Hague Lake, and whether the proposal, change, or whether this is just a question like that, is it? A senator on the Uryrofostician's activation, that maybe and maybe not, would still be looking at it. Is all of this just floating back and forth, or are we going to make some adjustments? What, then, remains to be observed about these changes in the employment committee if men are constantly cutting over and on this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u278	A respectable president. For six years, I have provided a bill for the General Legal Office that states that a legal office will be established at the council, which includes reading of all the laws of the law, any judicial hearings, and any other cases that appear before the council, and determining whether the matter is a matter of Congress. A respectable president. It's not going to be bulletproof until my legal bill is approved because the senator referred to me as a great judge of Iceland's state. The chairman of the council has a ruling authority and has ruled that this case is a judicial hearing, for we have no other weapons in our hands to set matters straight today, as the norm is. [[Up front.]] In terms of the change in Hag Lake, I'm not the messenger of that proposal. I'm not on the job committee, so I'm asking the senator to point that question to the right people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u279	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir for the speech, she was all right. But if I had known that she was going to read the life story of Apheson, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, I'm not sure that I had dealt with her. No matter what, I'd like to ask him why. I am here with a letter from 38 farmers who live on the banks of the Red Sea and from one hunting society in which they go through these operations, these fortresses, three activations in the lower part of the Blue Sea. Got it. In this letter, does a senator weigh a little bit too seriously that people who are born and raised on the side of the river argue that this will ruin their life's work? What do you think? A senator about that? Does she not feel that what the local people say should be weighed more seriously? It is also highly said that if we are going to get our business wheels started, we need to engage. What kind of bike is a flat tire in the business world? I just want to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u280	A respectable president. I'm going to start this answer from praying. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson apologized for what his name was getting in my head at the beginning of my speech, sometimes to confuse human names like other fine former senators. In terms of what the senator went over, I was setting the last term in chronological order, a respectable president, by reading the beginning of my speech from the book Aissar the Össur of Skarphéðinsson, so I believe that the senator has made a great deal of favor to the council by allowing me to come before him, and I accepted that good invitation. Because of what? A senator refers to where I was born and raised and refers to a letter received from the farmers, and this is always the opinion that comes up. This was also true of farmers living on the banks of the mixed race, who lost large areas under water. Of course, these people protest. But this cannot be done unless it's fully improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u281	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. But I don't think there's any compensation that can make it possible for people to lose their home and their career, there's nothing that can make it better. And those people who write that letter don't want it, that's perfectly clear. The talk was given. A senator could have started some major work on the Southnes if the activation projects had started. This too was shown in a talk today by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir to say that only 4% of the electricity produced in the Southern District is new there. Got it. A senator's recognizable to enable another as much as is activated into the Major already that it has all moved out of the province and has not been used for commercial development? We might also talk about lowering the price of vegetarian farmers, some of whom have a bad conscience. South American senators praised at a meeting before the election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u282	A respectable president. First of all, the letter that farmers on the banks of Dura were writing is not making decisions to rush into activations immediately tomorrow, although the benefits are transferred within the framework, from waiting for use. It is the legal process and the environmental assessment of the project will be carried out. So there's nothing going on tomorrow, so they say. We now live on an island, and the electricity is supposed to travel all over the country, and of course I support a reduction in electricity to garden farms. I'm connected to that branch and I'm an incredible opportunity for Iceland's gardeners to export goods if electricity decreases. But because of him. A senator is a commander of the bill during this ideal period to put a cable to Britain, what will farmers say if they are not allowed to use the electricity in their own country? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Got it. A senator, then, that the European Union's citizens should use the Icelandic electricity? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u283	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna come up to the President's conference board to try to answer it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u284	Hv. A senator must realize that this joint is not meant to be a follow-up...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u285	I'm just carrying off-- Okay, I don't like Presidential Conference Board if you want to know. I don't think it's been that bad in the last few days. I'm really sorry to say that to the highest level. Mr President, I deeply respect him as a senator and as president. But just to follow it off here on this thing with a sea cable to Europe, it's just a suggestion to explore, okay? A senator, perhaps it would be good for an Icelandic country to lay an electrical cable. [[Material discussion.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u286	Where...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u287	What? It's just that. We would like to see if it might be better for an Icelandic nation to export electricity, no more. We are not about to suggest that there be an electrical cable in Europe already. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u288	A respectable president. I think it would be a good idea for a president to take part in the fact that the general members and the rest of the discussion can draw closer to the book The Össur of Aphess Skarphéðinsson in a favorable setting for this discussion tonight, since it seems that it is a matter of writing. Senator. I think it has now been unveiled and turned to the President's conference board, that all the discussions here in the last few days, this beginning of a discussion about a greater part of the employment committee, is simply a misunderstanding based. Apparently, some members of the board read some pieces from a book. A senator and so misconstrued that he has been forced to correct them himself from the platform tonight. [[Up front.]] When it comes to it, a respectable president, that the management team has thought that there was some abuse during the last term that justifies bad practices during this term and that all is on misunderstanding based and the author himself has corrected it, I think it would be right to call the case back to the committee and to do something more necessary than to be on this demand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u289	A respectable president. I have to make a comment when it comes in no way. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir gives a question to a senator in his second answer. A senator is actually burned inside and cannot answer the question that lies in the air. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. If I may have become, I'd like to say it too -- [[John and Pastor Jon.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u290	Ask for the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u291	I'd like to ask the highest. One president. This is where a change proposal has been presented for the change to the highest degree. Environment and resource ministers announced and received the highest. Actually, the prime minister also last week, today is Tuesday, and I pray to the highest degree. In part, the president suggests that this adjustment arrangement is presented as a Senate document with articles and arguments, and he interrupts the discussion until there is a Senate document. Here's a second round. the discussion must be completed in terms of the Parliament's resolutions and these data so that it can be completed materially. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u292	V.E.G. President. We are until the evening, and I would like to direct it to the highest level. A president whether he would like to pause meetings with us so that we can access our books so that we can continue our reading sessions and enjoy evenings where we can read some pleasant chapters about some man-gown or whatever else we would like to discuss. When the rosary was modified to try to get the reasons for what is happening here, it failed miserably. It is in itself annoying to agree that there are people here who have had the opportunity to listen to an explanation from the author of the book but who think they know much better. It's out of the blue, so I'm just waiting. The president of Two, to decide that this will be a period of reading until midnight, or then we will just stop meetings, and we will try to find a normal way to resolve and then explain the rules that should apply to the management of a frame plan instead of being under law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u293	A respectable president. I come here to accuse myself, and so do I. 4th, including Smoke. N., Accelerator Össur's Skarphéðinsson. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir went to see that in a book by no means. 4th, including Reykv.. n. was described as the horse shops of the former government. It's not my job to defend the action of the former government. But I love logic, and I think it's important that our views are based on something that makes sense. It is not logical to estimate that words that are interpreted by others are the words of the original. What's that? paritaprevir In his book Affliction of Skarphéðinsson's son is an indication of why. paritaprevir Doers of Össur's Skarphéðinsson, not of those who had the viewpoint that Össur Skarphéðinsson's son was describing. It's not supposed to be complicated. I also regret accusations that I have said what to do. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson would be lying. I didn't say anything like that. I haven't said anything that's close to it. [[The president calls.]] I refuse to be accused of such an accusation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u294	Mr. President. I must protest to Mr. President that Aldulis's speaking period is used to read books and introduce such books as some one time for advertising, take one more than another, and have a special presentation on the book Aussar Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who is long expired, the last day of sales gone, and nobody is interested. I don't think speakers can mix such news with such a serious subject on the program, and I want it at the highest level. President, he'll discuss this with you. A senator who does not use his speech lesson again to use live advertising. I especially wish for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u295	A respectable president. I'm gonna go talk to the President's conference board and hopefully get some answers from the highest level. When we are in the future, the president will see how we can continue to discuss this matter. about that. There have been further changes in the proposals or modifications made to make the adjustment; new information has been submitted from the highest level. The prime minister that this case plays a key role in the solving of a struggle in a labour market, which he is alone to claim in the community all alone to claim, and that is suddenly why we are here an hour after an hour. A respectable president. I can't believe it's the highest. The President thinks it's decent, and I don't believe that in his long, successful Congress, he would have condoned it if he had this better option or was a minister himself. I just can't believe it. I'm waiting for the highest. In part, the president of this matter will be decommissioned and put to work properly. [[The president calls.]] We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u296	Mr. President. I must agree with those who have spoken here and with the last speaker. I don't think it's absolutely unacceptable that we're always talking about a case that doesn't really have - here's a verbal proposal from the highest level. two counsellors. Isn't she being discussed? I'm asking the highest. The president, asking for his answer: Isn't that a topic for discussion here? Does the President think he's not? If he thinks so, then it is not desirable to appear formally and in writing, or to think he or she works as formal at the highest level. Ministers here declare it, Environment and Resource Minister and Prime Minister? In view of this in solving the language of society, I would also want the president to take part in explaining how this would directly affect the solution to the pits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u297	The president indicates that many of these questions are questions of the sort that will only be answered in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u298	A respectable president. First, I would like to ask if it is still at the highest level. The president said today that the Council's work program will continue. That means that there are six days left because, so I repeat what I said earlier tonight, the second at Pentecost is Monday, and then there's a kitchen day on Wednesday. So, there are six days left, and we are still discussing this suggestion that the lesser part has protested and does not consider to be a member of the council because of the existing adjustments. Since then, we've heard it since the last two. Advertising that there should be some other adjustment proposal here. Yet, we hear it here on the council beds, even professional officials say: "No, no, it's just a change in motion. And what shall we think, a respectable president? When does that adjustment suggest come forward if it is to appear? I sort of suggest that there be a meeting delay until the motion is changed and we know what document we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u299	Mr. President. I'm going to bring it to the top. Environment and resource minister has left the building. Maybe she's just been so embarrassed about the speech of her party sister, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who stayed here and implied, Mr. President, to the point. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir and what. paritaprevir Svandís, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, made a false statement. That makes sense to me because she insisted on it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson could not be wrong, and hence, it would have been. The members of Svandís Svavarsdóttir and Oddný Harðardóttir were not properly treated in their talks today. I'm not gonna tell you how to do it. The secretary of the environment has depended on that speech, but I'm going to ask her to stay with us unless she is ashamed of the whole matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u300	A respectable president. The president took so little to tell us about the questions raised here that they would be resolved in the discussion. I just ask a respectable president about his position in relation to the reality we face, which is that there have been offered suggestions here for the past week, they are in the discussion but have not appeared. And there's a future debate on how to smell, a respectable president. What is the president's view of this situation, and how does he feel it is acceptable to consider the proposal after being presented orally? And if that's true, if the President thinks it's acceptable in a subsequent discussion of a Senate resolution, I'll ask, "Who works for the highest? President? Is he here to care for the general respect of the council, or does he represent more of the work committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u301	The President works for the Generals. The president had assumed that the proposed adjustment would be made. Councilmen have referred to this would be properly submitted. [[Up front.]] The president had assumed, and of course, the president cannot answer that question - the president has been here and does not want to be interrupted when the president is trying to explain his position. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] The president is simply reporting that he had assumed that this adjustment would be proposed in a judicial way, but of course he cannot say exactly when it will be. It must be in the power of prospective carriers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u302	V.E.G. President. I come up here to declare full support to the council president, and I have no comment to the President's conference board. On the other hand, I pray that we continue our material discussion on that subject - now it's time to be 10:30 - on the schedule here, and people don't have to act like pushy schoolchildren and grapple here when I'm going over the matter. [[Up front.]] [[The point is: What issue?]] [[The point is: What issue?]] They know well, perfectly well, particularly council heads of the left green, they know very well what's going on here. Many talks have now been conducted under discussion about the President's meeting board on the program today. [[The point is: What issue?]] You can read the available magazines, I suppose everyone has such a table sheet. They are well aware of what is going on, and they do not need to be out - of - date, nor do they have to be rude at the highest level. The President of the Parliament. Six talks have been delivered today, it's been going quite well this late part of the day. Now it's 10:30, and I recommend that we continue with the puzzle file, I understand there are about 15 people left. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u303	Mr. President. Regarding the treatment of this proposal, as it is now available, the managers of this case, including two of the government's advisers, have proclaimed that there will be a change in the proposed adjustment. We are in a second round. on the Senate case, as part of a synonym, and I think the President must realize that it is a very valid and democratic requirement, supported by the council that this is the case again, as it may be done at any stage of the discussion, if any of the changes in the motion, would provide logical support for it and the leading committee and that the discussion will be continued if necessary. There are many examples of how this is the procedure, the careful political procedure, at such times. When the council was converted into one seminar, there was an agreement that the objective of a judicial hearing would not be denied because it would guarantee that the decommissionment of the division would not be impaired by careful convocation treatment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u304	A respectable president. I don't find the answers of the President here, and especially if people are going to try to keep the cards in such a way that they are about to reach the media - preaching issues, e.g. Things related to delinquency were held and the highest. The secretary of finance was preaching in the media today. How will they plant it here when we're just standing here waiting for some new suggestions? I know the highest. Mr President not that we're in the second round. of the matter? There won't be any further discussion, it's not the 3rd. ... ofa connotation proposal. What are we waiting for? They are just presented with proposals for change above, providing information that this is the largest case, the case of the government in dress interview, etc. - and what? So, is the proposal to come somehow into the church treatment? What's the therapy for Congress? We're in the second round. I think this is completely unannounced, and the president of the entire council would have stopped this meeting, held a meeting with the council members, and crossed this position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u305	V.E.G. President. I'm not here to criticize the President's conference board, but I'm going to ask senators to remember that people may have to leave the house for personal reasons and for good reason. Then I'll lead to the absence of the highest. A minister with valid reasons, and I thought most members of the council were well - known. I'm going to ask people to keep that in mind only.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u306	What... Prime Minister... for Personal Reasons...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u307	Mr. President. If Ministers cannot attend for personal reasons, I think it is only right that we conclude a meeting now. Am I not right, Mr. President? I think we need to pause because council leaders and prime committees have to review what is a connivable treatment. The suggestions here on taking Ragacon activation out of this adjustment arrangement are not available. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson always shakes his head when it is mentioned that it should be taken out that it is not to be brought, but that it should be taken out. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson always nods, that she's inside. How should we know what is happening if we look at these woes? two heads speak each other in different directions? I think it's about time for a intercom. I think it's time for a little intercom. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u308	Mr. President. I'd like them to come up here, please. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, and Páll Jóhann Pálsson, determine whether they intend to submit a proposed change. The president announced earlier that he assumed that more part of the employment committee would produce the adjustment proposed by the Ministers. I'd like you to agree that they're going to come up here and explain, or have a meeting with them, and then I'd like to inform us when we're going to submit these adjustments. If we weren't here for a meeting board discussion, would we have discussed the case, and the rosary would be emptied into the night, where would we be standing? Then we will face the fact that a new proposal was offered that was never made. What does that mean in the process, a respectable president? Does President consider that acceptable? I don't think so, and I think we should discuss it with all the evidence underneath. I think these questions need to be answered. [[The president calls.]] And they should not be answered when we reach the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u309	President. I'd like to agree with that. Magnúsdóttir And if the principal players in the play we're in cannot be here for personal reasons, then we should postpone the show until we can all stay here and especially the important ones. On the one hand, I have to say that I have sympathy for the President of the Generals. He says that he assumed that a form of change that was proposed would appear, as is customary on the matter of Congress. It was yesterday, and now it's 10:30, and it's still not overreaching. I understand that as if the President can't-- Well, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do about the end of the council either. He says that a plan will be held, but prime minister says it's supposed to be a summer assembly. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to express heartfelt sympathy for the President of the Generals in the situation he has with the people he has to work with in the government of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u310	The President thanks a humble pity. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u311	A respectable president. There is reason to share this empathy with president's lot. There is good reason for members of the council to be amazed at the issues presented here and for no reason at all. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir Konstirdóttir making comments to that. The situation is that of the highest level. The Environment Minister, who has sadly had to withdraw from a meeting, has announced that the government has agreed to a meeting on Friday program, which may not be a political proposal, but will be shown in some other way. But she hasn't shown up. Not only is that it is but the senator of the stepsaults and the head of the trade board has for him, or so. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, called over the hall tonight for this adjustment. As a result, it stands here in the Assembly Hall, a dignified president, a word contrary to a word. Of course, that must be very clear. [[The president calls.]] Has Rag water activation been restored by the forward group or not? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u312	Mr. President. I kindly request that the discussion on this matter be delayed, the meeting terminated, and the president settle with the council members how the council is to be held. This doesn't go anywhere. V.E.G. The president can't be satisfied with the fact that there's a lot of change here, and there's no way anyone can figure out if they're going to be put out, how they're going to be done, and if we're gonna get a head chance to discuss them. We have noted many times that we consider the decision of the president of the hill to be neutral, we believe this is a political evaluation. With all kindness, topv. Mr. President, can't this meeting be delayed or cut off and sit down with members of the council and talk like people? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u313	Mr. President. I can agree with that. There's a few problems with the president. I think that any president, whether he belonged to a government or to a smaller part, would have a problem with a government in a solution and inexhaustible manner, such as the one facing the country today. I came here to call the president's attention to the fact that I'm on the rosary as it stands now, and I felt that my rights were not taken as a senator if I was going to deliver my main speech in this discussion without the case, which should be taken care of at the end, in final form. I simply feel that way in the second and only discussion that remains on this subject. That is why I ask the President now to consider what many have mentioned, that it would in any case be reasonable for the committee to bring the matter to its attention to the final change of proposals and subsequent committees and support with them so that we would know what we were talking about here for the rest of our discussion, Mr. President, is nearing its end, which is another matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u314	A respectable president. The play and the language continue, and the discussion is not meaningful at the moment. The control position. It's amazing to listen to this. Of course, like the highest. The Environment Minister has reported, agreed between the majority of the employment committee and the Minister to withdraw the proposal, to proceed to Hague Lake, Hague Water activation. We had thought of a treatment to retract the E- force when the case came to an end at a vote here. I'll review it with the conference agency and tomorrow they'll see if it's better that we take care of this adjustment proposal formally. But, hey. Senators of the government's opposition can be absolutely certain that this will be the case. Then they can evaluate it during their discussion, and they do not need to discuss it further. [[The president calls.]] We're going to be here, and I think we should just stop playing this play and acting and filing and start moving on to a material discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u315	A respectable president. It's kind of pathetic to come up here after waiting for less than a week to get in. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think I've been number 12 on the roster list at the beginning of the last week. It's 10:30 on Tuesday night, and I'm here. I don't think I'll say anything new in this discussion, that's all that has to be said in the discussion. [[For example: Well?]] [[Foreground on: No.]] I'm surprised if the senators of this hall who have stood up to guess 20 times today have not said all they're going to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u316	It's just about a meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u317	I have to admit, I'm offended at how we get in this house. I'm talking about us. I say again and again, as I said tonight in a speech about Presidential conference board that I apologize to the people for how we're going to act here. It is said that there is a great need for a meeting program that is important to the nation. I totally agree with you on that. We agree completely on that, but that's why we need to end this discussion. It's not acceptable for us to go on like this. That's not acceptable. [[Up front.]] During my last term, I sat at home, listened to the talk at the TV convention, and then called my party friends. [[Up front.]] When I was then, I was not happy. There was nothing better back then than right now. I just have to admit tonight that I envy the people at home who can turn off the TV. It's even more pathetic sitting here in this room than being at home watching this on TV and being humiliated by the council. I think we all have to turn around. I had high expectations as I entered the high Council. There was high expectations for us, new members of Congress. We recall that we went to the Senate School just before we went to the council that our expectations of changing the tradition were high. We remember it well, it's not that long ago. One had good expectations about it. For example, I decided that I would never talk about what has passed because there is nothing we can do about it. I have also said several times from this chair that we can't solve anything in the past, whether reading from old books or other, the solution is always in front of us, and that's where we need to go to solve the situation. The past is just such a piece of dirt that there's no reason to back it up. It's just that way. I think we should try to take this discussion seriously. I mean, no matter whether I'm involved or you or any of my party brothers or others, we just have to stop. I've written a few talks this week that I've been waiting and throwing them away. It's all out. [[Up front.]] I think our problem is that the peace that needs to be reached is so far away. I think it once again as a senator: What is always putting matters in our hands that the experts should be able to handle and complete? They're the ones who know how to do this. That's it. We trust them in a structure to exercise that authority. I wish they could finish this from A to O, that we could get the results into this council and that all we had to do was to bless her. But we can't be trusted to do that. We've already shown it. The Congress has shown it. Yet, the council is always giving all kinds of suggestions that we should become experts in and that are not at all, certainly none of us. I don't know any particular expert on activation issues in this room. At least I'm no expert. It's so far from there. With my opinions, I have explained my feelings of unique qualities and was soon called an expert. It illustrates the discussion that was going to be so much better during this council. She was supposed to be so much better. In fact, those who have the responsibility of their groups to improve the tradition of conversation are the worst of the entire team. I think we need to get somewhere. I was thinking about this with the experts because I have a work committee meeting today, farmers and veterinarians came to discuss the import of embryos or genetics, and now I have to decide whether it is better to import embryos or DNA. How in the world am I supposed to be able to do that? I just don't know what to do. It's just that way. Of course, the peasant class itself must decide how to avoid its dangers, not throw them into the hands of a council, that we need to make a political decision as to whether to import DNA or embryos. We need to develop confidence in our community that our experts can do this and that we can trust them, exactly as with a frame plan. We need to be able to trust them. We need this trust in society. If we're going to do this for another week or two or three, as I've taken steps, for example, I'm done with the vacation I'm going to take in June because I expect to be here in this mess all next month. I don't see anything else if we're gonna act like this. But this isn't the most expensive option, even if I miss my vacation. That's not the most expensive thing, I think our reputation will be the most expensive, that will be the problem. This filibuster has become a national disaster. I'm devastated that it's such a thing that I had a lot more expectations for us, for us, for us at the council, and for you to come home every night and be happy with your work day, for a man to have turned something over. That's a real place to work, you come to your house, and you're happy with the day's hard work. They know old principals, and they know us from all over the world. In this blessed place, however, it is a privilege not to let the work go. It doesn't matter whether it is now or then. We have to change this. I know we don't do it tonight, my friends, but we have to do it. That's the big deal. Then there's a multiwritten paper about whether I should go over all these points that everyone's been talking about many times. I'm kind of sick of having to, of having to back up and talk about it. You see, it's not so elegant where it started. I hate that we blame one another in time and hours and talk about fraud. Senators tell each other to do something about it. Is that what we want? And I ask, is that what the senators are doing? I don't know why they ask like that. I think we need to see what we're saying in this discussion over our heads. My friends, all we have to do is look out of this, not for our own sake, but for our country's sake. It's not about whether we get a long vacation or a short vacation. It's about that we have to finish this. I say from this chair, from a respectable president, we must make peace. She must exist. We need to sit down and find the peace that each of us can record and then continue to work. I'm not going to blame anyone or anyone for the greater peace wrecker in this case today or before. Let us sit down, look ahead, and show the nation that we are making peace in this matter. I know it's hard for a lot of people, and I understand that. I've said here before, and I got a reason for calling myself natureists. I'm a natureist. I don't care how this country is activated. There's a long way from it, even though I'm no expert on how to activate it. No activation will be beautiful. No activation will improve the country, but we also have a little to choose between whether we will be able to do so in the best way possible, in the best way we can with the natural world, and in the past, to cooperate with the natural world, and to use it wisely. We're doing it with our fishing grounds. It is important that we do so to the fishing grounds, and it is also important that we do so to our country and not to argue forever about who is greater than nature protection or memory, no matter what our view of the matter. It's also about our future in this country. There's no one talking about putting all the power out and south out so that nothing can happen to the future, but we need to move on so that we can build this society that we all want to be better than it is, so that we can live a better life, in order to fulfill your dreams and hopes and those of us who are in this room and who are always talking about the need for more money on this and that. There's more money in the health system, in education, in the well-being, we all know it, but they don't leak from the trees. We need to make them. We need to make them. We need to create currency money to make our dream of a better life in Iceland come true. We must feel secure in how we are going to do so. I'm not a spokesman for having an aluminium in every pine or balconte, or silica, every other. During the last term, I told about an aluminium in Helguvík and the electricity where, in fact, it may have been the last place we were going to open. There is no chance that this will be opened, though in all types of government agreements it has been said that employment opportunities will be given opportunities that will create new jobs, varied and well paid. That's exactly what our young people are waiting for. Our young people want a well - paying job. Why are more Icelanders moving abroad than home again? That's because they get better money. If we look at the production that uses our energy, it is the balance of the workplace that pays the highest wage, often for even the least of our jobs. That is where the labourer's initial wage is about 500 of you. K. per month. That's in the contract of a senator. That's a good deal. That's what our people are after. I think we agree in this room that we want our professional life to pay a better salary, but most of all, we want their money to stay and live for the prosperity of the nation. It's all about growing the power of money. We've been lucky because it's increased. It probably is not all of us, thanks to the way we handled various matters, it is also undoubtedly some former government. It's not just a thank - you thing. We may forget to thank for what is well done. But I'm just saying, my friends, now I've thrown all these points out here that I was going to talk about because I just don't feel like talking about it again. That's enough. I think we should each use ourselves to take advantage of the situation within our order of making peace, finishing this case. I don't want to talk to my coworker here, even though we each have a different opinion on the matter. We must show respect for one another and because we have a different outlook on life. Some people cannot accept that they are activated in Iceland, but there are others who accept it to create a better life here. We have to feel at peace with them, too. It is of utmost importance that the people of the country can look up to us with respect and see that we are improving our terms and improving our health systems and that we do so by making peace. For example, I enjoy working with committees on whom I am on, employment committees, and welfare committees. There has hardly been any human who has been able to handle any issue, even though we may not always agree. This has been done with great courtesy and careful management. I appreciate it. We've been walking over to coffee and talking like nothing ever happened. Of course, that is the way it must be. We don't feel so good when we're cutting down here each other's butts. I think that political bitch needs to disappear somehow. It's not long since I may have been one of those people who did it, but you get older, you get more experienced, and you know that it's not necessarily the best even if you have it all in your hand. It doesn't make any difference. It won't make a difference to draw money from your friends and associates. I think, my friends, that we should change this discussion, take it seriously to change terms in due course. We are not to do so today, but we need to have some agreement that we too can express our views, that there are limits to our use of them. This will not benefit anyone, nor will it be for the work we are discussing. They're serious, they're important and we need to land them. The above words are entitled to very many, and many good talks have been given on either side. That's a good thing, and I can think about it with many people. It's also interesting to see that a newspaper in my stack and to consider what those who have planted the committee have told us about these matters, the experts themselves. They've said things we can't control either. I'll take the salmon case injķrish, for example. A hunting agency has said at a meeting with us more than once and more than twice that there is really no point in adding because it really doesn't care if it gets examined more and more, the results would always be critical. There will never be a conclusion that everyone will agree with. That is how science is, and so are our views. We'll never get any connection with the salmon stock in Þjórjódra, as important as it is. We've tried to find ways to get him out of the ideas that have been used there. Almost every week, I run over a three - eyed bridge. This is one of the most beautiful places in Iceland, it's perfectly clear, but it may be necessary for us to find some ways to make use of some of the activations available there. It has been shown that in order to do this most cautiously, Inhimic activation and then Holt activation would begin and see how the results would be in this situation at the lowest risk. I think it's the matter, fine coworkers in this hall, that we take as little risk to nature as possible, we try to cooperate with her, and we're also here at the great General Assembly together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u318	V.E.G. President. I wanted to use this opportunity for a short answer to what happened. A senator, specifically asking him one question. He'll be talking about the respect of the Generals, terms of priming, etc. Yes, that was the basis for the reconciliation that we achieved at the time on the framework and all of that. Now I share that thought with my head. A senator, e.g. with the activation suggested at first to replace a waiting class and put it in the subsequent process. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, according to the opinion expressed in the history of the Environment and Resource Department as they directly say that the General is not expected to make changes in the category of these costs, as the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. In view of the new onset of action. So, what does he say about this opinion of the Environment and Resource Minister, where it is specifically said that this process, that more of the Committee will make this adjustment proposal for future discussions, is illegal, not legal? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u319	A respectable president. Thank you for your first request. Now I'm not gonna put on my legal uniform and play lawyer, I'm not gonna do it. I've counted, according to the information and what we've been told on a professional committee, that the council has full authority to take up these matters and discuss them, as the law is primarily a administrative law in which the management board will apply them. At some point, we should be able to have room to discuss them here. I'm not going to minimize this opinion, but I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not going to risk myself to criticize it, and I'm going to follow the opinion we had, and I'm ordering a president that this proposal is passed on. That's where I build my stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u320	V.E.G. President. I'm not a lawyer either, but I can read, and I take into account what they say. Hv. A senator will discuss that the framework of the programme is primarily a matter of control over the administrations in this case. Government officials, led by state officials, are saying that there is a violation of the Law on a Framework Program. It's not about Congress, it's about that, it's about the law on a frame plan. As the Ministry says, this legal process has not occurred, and that is why it cannot be done. Us senators need to take into account what members are saying. It's not some person in town, it's an environmental and resource minister himself, who says this process is not legal. I'm not gonna waste my time here on what happens at the General when the legal process is over, that's a whole different story. Finally, I'd like to ask you why. A senator: was a boy. A senator knew about this memo before more parts of the employment committee made their suggestions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u321	A respectable president. I had not had this memo in my hands, and as I have said, I cannot play the game of protesting these laws from the Environment Ministry. I think it might just be good for us to get lawyers out of town to give us an opinion, hear what they say on these matters. But otherwise, I can't tell myself about these matters because I'm not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u322	A respectable president. Rarely have I wished I had more time. I don't agree with everything that happened. A senator said in his speech, but I would like to thank him very much for his heartfelt and important speech. It was very important to discuss the subject at any given moment. A senator entered, including the need for us to trust experts in order to do the professional work needed to make informed and correct decisions based on professional views. Much of the difference here is about that. It's good to see you, too. A senator said about the respect of the council, I was greatly impressed and correct. I like what I'm doing. A senator would like to say, to all of us, this council is not doing so, and the public knows it. That is why the public do not trust the General. But I'd like to ask. A senator: What should we do about it? The problem with the memory of the part is that the only advice we have is to complain. When we complain, nothing happens, so we complain more, and it's still not happening. All we can do is complain more. We need some tools, we need some tools, some adjustments that enable us to talk to each other and settle such problems as the program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator proposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u323	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson query. What should we do to make peace? Of course, I don't have the solution here, but it's not like we sit down at least and try to find it. We're not going to catch her by continuing to carve into one. We can carve out a legal explanation, and it's been done back and forth, the questions I've been asked earlier are often ready to appear here. Of course, we can try to put one another on some false street there, but that is not the point. That must be the point of handling the situation. It must be the most important thing in all of this. If there is a problem with legal issues or other factors, we need to figure it out, and then we need to figure out how we're going to solve this problem. I think that is why we need to sit down, both here and outside this hall, and solve the matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u324	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says that we certainly need to talk. Then we need to bring up a solution that will work to resolve this issue on the program. Now it is easy to point to the lesser part and to see how bad it is to talk about it for so long. But this is all the lesser part has. If we didn't have this thing, i.e. To be able to complain more or less for as long as we want to, we might as well go to our home after the election and leave everything behind for the greater part. This is all we have. I repeat it. So the smaller part needs something to make a real impression. The minority of Congress is 40% members. The majority is 60% members of Congress, not 100% members, but 60% members of Congress. On the other hand, he has 100% of power, minus this one, the freedom of speech for my part. If it's not good enough anymore, which I quite agree with, we need something else. For example, I present the legal right to my part of the council, the national lawsuit. There are many of these. But should we not focus on them before taking the program, which is not often seen on TV, into the council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u325	A respectable president. I think it's important that my part's court is also being taken care of at the council, completely. It has been explained in a number of ways, and you can refer to the neighboring countries, how they do things, and many of the things that have happened to me in the past. Of course, I have to take a closer look at them in order to learn more about them and how they are convenient for us during this assembly. But I agree with the highest. Senator, we need to find these paths. I respect that the lesser part is defending its cause, which leads to 40 percent becoming reconciled to 60 percent on some route, halfway, in the middle of it, to some conclusion. No one in this matter can complete his conquest. Maybe there'll never be a winner in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u326	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's heartfelt speech. I think it's a sign that the discussion has caused something, because there are many of them. A senator came to the very heart of the matter, i.e. First, that we should not be preoccupied with the past, that we should talk, that we should work so that we are happy with our day's work and that we must feel at peace and take the slightest risk for nature. That's what I'm talking about. A senator said. Hv. A senator suggested that we talk. I want to pray. A senator to tell me how he sees that this conversation takes place and also asks him if he believes that it might help to ease the approval of drawing back more part of the employment committee and trying to make sure that the king's proposal is being given a political treatment and the rest will be retracted in the name of some kind of reconciliation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u327	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A senator's inquiry. I'm not going to answer it here and now whether we're going to retract this suggestion, I don't think it would be right for me to do it, I have to, of course, agree with my partners. But I say, "When you're going to resolve a matter," all ways must be on the table. It's just that way. That doesn't mean always pointing into some old sins and sorrows, we need to take all the things up on the table, then we slowly evict them until the solution is on the table. It's just that. That's how you solve it in your life, just at home. We all know that. There are no other rules for the council than at home when you are losing the fight for who to do the dishes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] These are the same rules. So I don't think we have to invent them, they're there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u328	A respectable president. That was a very important answer. A senator, i.e. to discuss a very complex discussion after a very long discussion and a lot of conflict that one of the options on the board to solve the upcoming curve of the employment committee's changing proposals. I'm the highest. A president should listen very carefully to the fact that this idea is made by a representative of the greater part of the job committee that he or she is worth the discussion and worth the thought. I encourage a respectable president to intervene in the discussion and try to call for some sort of meeting of the council classes or other committees before the discussion continues, as there is good reason for this. I hope to the highest. The President sees that this is creating a completely new situation that I think is very important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u329	A respectable president. There may not have been a direct question in this to me, but I think that with good will we can resolve this matter. If we sit to the bargaining table together, we'll get our bearings. But then we must leave old ghosts at home too. It doesn't mean to drag them along at such a meeting. Then we won't solve anything. So I encourage all of us to continue. There is a lot of anxiety about postponing the case and taking up other cases, since older and experienced senators will say: "It will just be the same and will continue to delay. We need to be content that this will not be done. So we need to trust one another better in this room. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u330	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before his speech and welcomes the tone of reconciliation I hear in his language that I feel is very important. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator said it was best with a frame plan that the project management would complete the case from A to Z because we here at the council had no knowledge of various complex issues and issues. Consider the case of a member of the body of elders. I agree with him completely. But isn't this the only problem, and what we're discussing is that six more parts of the employment committee decided that the project management should not be completed from A to Z? At the time of the project management into my letter, the more part of the employment committee decided to take matters into their own hands and make adjustments. We're talking a lot about the discussion, discussing the adjustment of the proposal to make a pact, and this has become a very difficult discussion. [[The president calls.]] But there's a reason. The senator didn't agree with me that a project manager should have been allowed to finish the case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u331	A respectable president. I thank you for the starter of this inquiry. I was naturally speaking of the need to be the content of our trust with specialists in the land. As long as it's the case, we're on a professional committee and we're supposed to finish things, of course we're going to. I think that according to what I was informed of, and according to my knowledge, we were just on the right track with the suggestion, but the main thing now may be to find a way to settle, don't start going back and finding out why we did this and not the other. I think the long-term thought should be that we trust those who know the most about it. I'm not saying we can't make difficult decisions at the council, based on the research and results of experts, but it has to be that a solid state, that their conclusion - as we were supposed to - is the final judgment, as I think it would be, e.g. In Norway. So I think we need to get to the point where we're not making a decision about embryos and sperm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u332	A respectable president. As I have understood this, it is, in most of the society, that we have a set of legislation, a process, a procedure related to this great work to classify activation options and that there is a certain agreement on the task management. Maybe that's why we're here a little excited and talking a lot about this case because we think the reconciliation was broken by making an adjustment to the council arrangement. I remind you, it wasn't even the highest. Environment Ministers who presented these advantages more than a part of the employment committee. Would it not be possible for the committee to take the matter back into consideration? They often work in greater peace, such as coercion. A senator mentioned. Counts 'em out. A senator would consider taking a closer look at the Urrass and the Cradle, putting it back in the process? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u333	A respectable president. Thank you for asking why. Senator. I'm not going back to this discussion in this way. I think we've been on the right track for the information we had. With regard to the novelty party and all that, so you get on this old line, the debate, of course, is that the experts'conclusions were changed during the last term, and now they're back in it, and members of Congress think they're on the same basis. That's what all this discussion is about. That's what we may need to make the peace that I'm talking about. So I'm not going to go back in this discussion. I've been waiting a week to get to and say a few words, and I had a whole different talk a week ago and a whole different talk five days ago and a whole other talk three days ago, but I had just had enough tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u334	A respectable president. I'd like to mention it again to the highest. The fact that the U.S. Senate does not have all the information needed to discuss the matter and ask him if it is not completely clear and completely clear that a discussion will not be held in this case until we have the proposal and the adjustment made with a paper in hand. It's very important that we have everything in our hands. And I'd also like to mention what was said in public. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. He gave an opportunity for a review of the possibility of the solution to the problem to reimburse the majority of the workaholics. This is a completely new situation in the case that has been discussed for the second week. I think it's very important. A president of this possibility of solving the difficult situation that has remained for some time, tempting a meeting with those who may be involved in the solution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u335	A respectable president. I hope that a dignified president and, most of us have heard a talk. 7. Southk., Ásmundur Friðriksson of Frirdur, for it had a lot of wisdom in it, although I did not agree with all that was said. I believe, considering the last words of what. A senator of the specific activation options he mentioned - what has been said here on possible modification proposals, etc. - is absolutely reason to interrupt this meeting and find out what can be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u336	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator giving his last talk made her better because he had to wait a week. I thank him for an excellent introduction to what we're dealing with here. But I'd like to think about a few things in view of the fact that we've been asking for a formal proposal. A senator, president of the professional trade committee, said that earlier he was going to examine with staff whether to submit. We know that the highest. The minister of state said that there was no need to take note of the council, we remember, it is not long ago: Is it to say that to any Senate decree that can make changes in the last record, to go directly into votes when we anti-continents have talked us quite red, is it that way, is it true of all Congress laws that such a thing can be done, to change them even very much? [[The president calls.]] Then, for example, I set up a road program, or each other. Isn't Congress a valid copy, or what is it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u337	A respectable president. I have to say just as it is, it makes you feel a little happy that the superintendent who has sat here understands what it is and hears what it is we're calling out for. He may not agree, but he hears it, and it is more than can be said of most of the members of the board that have come up here. I hope now people really go into sitting down to try to figure out how to work with this position. It will not be presented for a democratic meeting, such as the International Parliament, that people are here to make some major changes. of a synonym. I just don't believe it until I figure that President is gonna stand up for these things. Then this council will be remembered in the history of having taken quite a bit off track, that I must say, because this is the case because it is going to be the right of our members of Congress to discuss business professionally. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u338	A respectable president. I don't think there's any paper on this whole game. Friðriksson In the discussion this evening, there must be several turning points in which the need to postpone at least the discussion if not to stop and call the matter in to the committee, and to take it up for consideration to the aim of looking for solutions at this position, which is, as if it were, the case. A senator well described, completely intolerable. I think the senator used the word that it would make us feel ashamed in the sense of Š ar and other members of the council. I don't think there's any record that we've been calling a lot of people for this very thing to happen. The whole case is such that it obviously will not be successful here at the council. [[The president calls.]] A leading member of the Committee itself and the board of directors already says that there is, of course, reason to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u339	A respectable president. Last week I made a comment about this part of the program that I've been feeling a little regret over ever since. I said, in the context of a few poorly chosen ones at the highest. Prime Minister, the senators voted as if they were told. Then I saw what. paritaprevir Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, immediately regretted it a little because some were sick. Congress officials have shown the worth of presenting their own views with sincerity and respect for the council. And I don't like it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has done it today. So I am even more sorry for those words because here I see an opportunity for total effort, an opportunity to cope with this of the great maturity that I thought would have. A senator shows here. I hope we can follow this, postpone a conference, and start a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u340	The president had viewed this as a practical option. 8th yrs That's the north side. " Egilsdóttir Eglur's daughter could deliver her speech here tonight, but now it becomes clear that this is not possible. Now the President is asking if they're the two of them. Senators who have requested to address the President's conference board will want to speak up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u341	A respectable president. I just want to direct that wish to the highest. In view of the situation that has come up, the president of the Day Day, asking that the program be put together in collaboration with the council groups to create a better work environment for the council, and especially in view of the information that has been presented at the end of the discussion this evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u342	Mr. President. It is always becoming clearer and clearer to members of the council at that suggestion. Work committees are gradually moving toward shore. I think it's time to finish this discussion and that the matter will be called back to the job station, where a greater proportion of the employment authorities will examine them according to what has been presented in their case, as in the case. Ásmundur Ásmurmur Friðriksson, who was here in the talk very soft on the man and understanding. I believe that he wants to follow up on a professional committee and talk to his associates, who may be a little harder to take and change this proposal so that they will just be assigned to the project management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-19-108.u343	Mr. President. I understand well that the president would like to see this discussion coming to an end, but I would like to say honestly that I thought the message would be about to go through. This united government force is determined not to be offered to himself and to the council and to the nation the legal arrangements that have been presented here. We have political rights and do not hesitate to use it to deliver these messages thoroughly. Of course, it is an improvement that minimum conference habits are respected in terms of the fact that if there is any reason to force these changes, I want at least for myself and the person here to make it absolutely clear, the president can hear that the only thing that can be considered a member of the Congress defender in this case is the original proposal of the former Environment Minister and nothing else at this council. [[Up front.]]
