ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Education and Culture Minister, Industrial and Business Ministers, Health Ministers and Social Services Ministers. A discussion of the President's conference board will be arranged after this session is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u2	Mr. President. I'll direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister. There is no room for the public in the country and why. Congress officials are concerned with the recent discussion of the stability process. There's no need to recall that a stable tax was introduced here this spring. Then we began a discussion at the council, a good and objective discussion about the bill as well as another bill that enabled financial companies to look through the so - called stability contributions. Now, though, we're following up on a discussion. Congress officials and the public of the country, where the stability process is reduced by day. According to the news that is not public, it now accounts for about 300 billion. The original figures were listed for 1,500 billion. However, there are many other aspects of the stability involved. V.E.G. Prime Minister, I last saw him in the news yesterday, said that there certainly was a need to explain the matter further, he agreeed with it. The chairman of the Conspiracy, huh? paritaprevir The Árni Árnason, writing to us the chairman of the classes yesterday, and asking for a meeting, either in the scene of the presidents or in the Senate Advisory Committee for Emissions, as it would evidently be necessary to find out more about the location of this work. It has been difficult to get adequate information on the Economic and Business Committee. Not only has it been hard to get a meeting but when it has happened there are even more questions that have not been answered. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does he consider a meeting, either of the presidents or members of the Council, to be considered on the relief committee so that the situation can be reviewed? Is this not absolutely clear that this is a huge interest in the public in the country? It is up to us senators who represent the public - we are assigned to protect public interests - we need to be informed about where the matter is. So I'll direct this inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry. That's right, as a matter of course. One senator noted that in the news there have been various stories on the scale or interpretations, even speculations, about what is involved in the so - called stability. It has even been discussed in that it was merely about some particular 334 billion in whom humans had calculated. How good it is, then, to have an opportunity to remind us that this contribution - if it is the result, meeting all these conditions - would certainly include money payments, direct payment on money, which can study the amount that has been mentioned, or something around it, possibly more, possibly less. But that's only part of the effort. Added to a number of factors, deduction of property, payment, deposit, bond, conditional bonds, and to form a share of the state's share in bank sales. So it is very misleading, and actually wrong to talk about the stability process, as if it were only that particular amount of money. I know why. The senator wasn't talking about it that way, but it's true, as it were. A senator noted that this has been the case recently. I believe there is good reason to have a meeting on the Parliamentary Conference Committee, such as. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, proposes and hopes that the meeting may be arranged as soon as possible. Actually, I don't run them meetings, but I don't see any fault with holding a meeting on that committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u4	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. I think, based on what was said in his case, he disagrees with what the Invenge group has claimed. The Invenge team has sent each other. A letter to members of the Economic and Business Committee, which includes this idea. It's based on information provided by partners in Inveffence, the worn-out information; these are their ideas for stability. I understand the highest. A prime minister who does not accept that interpretation. V.E.G. Prime Minister here says: "I do not direct a consultation committee on the release of the past. But the highest. Prime Minister is the taskmaster of the government, the head of the government, and this is a huge case. All classes here have spoken in terms of the need to make peace. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Will he arrange for the committee to meet before any decisions are made? Can we trust that she will be invited to meet at the highest level? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u5	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator mentioned the concern of some members of the so-called Invenge group by list of information, then I reiterate what I said earlier that it is important that the most information be provided and that as much as possible explain the information. But I don't. A member of the Invenge team has been working on these matters in the past few months and in the past few years, and I have no doubt that this job will produce good results. I'll be talking to a successful financial minister, and I've already done that in between answers. He agrees with me that it is desirable to have the most consultation and to give the most information. So I think it's safe to say that. A senator and others wrangled. Before long, members of the Parliament can arrange for a meeting on the requested committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u6	A respectable president. In all this process of delinquency, the swelling farms have played out the biggest part. Now it's time for people to see the end of it, but it also counts that we try hard, and it's important that humans try to create things as much solidly as possible. I'd like to remind you that during the last term, in the spring of 2013, changes in the currency law were made in this very spirit. There was then a fine agreement between all groups to establish a specific structure in the handling of these matters by enforcing legislation that the swellingers would not be given any leave unless the discussion with the Council's Economic and Business Committee has been agreed on, this is directly in the Law text, and agreed with the Minister, i.e. that the minister should bring the matter into the council and inform the Economic and Business Committee all the consequences of the contributions to the resolution. This was in order to ensure a transparency and to ensure a transverse approach, since it is of course important in all of this to ensure permanent stability and to ensure certain reconciliation. During the discussion, both politicians and those who have discussed these matters have been a bit grudging about just looking at the Secret Bank. But the legislation on the currency is, if you don't mind me saying so, drawn in a requirement for consultation with the Minister and then with the Economic and Business Committee. It has to be ensured that the process is legal and that the economic and business committees receive these issues. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if it is not up to the point of bringing the matter into the Economic and Business Committee under law and reviewing the stability conditions and the economic consequences of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u7	A respectable president. All of this is the right thing to do. A senator mentioned this time. It is important to agree with this, and it is indeed already a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter that represented the Secret Bank, but more meetings can be held for me. In fact, it is important that the steward joins in clarifying his position on the matter, as is the case. A senator mentioned an important role in this work. At the same time, I make right what I said earlier, and there's reason to agree with it. A senator such as the last president should expect, as most members of the Parliament or at least as representatives of the council in this consultation process to be as enlightened as any news.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u8	A respectable president. It's not that people were following the procol that I went before, and it's in the legislation. The minister of the seminarial party has not attended the committee and presented to her the economic consequences of the stability conditions and has only been generally discussed in discussions with the Sentencing Bank on the Committee. This should ensure that the procedure is followed. And when people feel that way, at the highest. Governments extending such numbers as 1,200 billion, 850 billion, and all that is going to come out of this stable tax, that then something else is being done - which is totally obvious and indefence has pointed out well and drawn out - then people have to know what's going on. They are not going to be placed on a stable tax. They are going other ways. At that time, governments should introduce it well, and we should listen to the warnings that humans have given during the past few weeks and listen to what they say about it. [[The president calls.]] It has to be explained, because it cannot be done as generally as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u9	A respectable president. It's a little strange to be following up the discussion of these last days and weeks of inception, and I thought it was a problem. A senator tries to do so earlier, to be completely surprised that there were two ways in this matter, on the one hand, the tax, the stable tax, and the stability tax. On the day of the presentation of this plan, both of these guides were introduced, and they have been before the whole time. So making it clear that this is going to be a complete surprise to a man, a respectable president, to say the least. The main point of all of this is that the two processes, whether they are gone, are designed to solve the problem and designed to deal with the problem as big as this, except that the stability process actually adapts to the problem. Even if the problem proved to be bigger than expected, the stability process would be sufficient to solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u10	A respectable president. I just want to talk about the travel service in view of the fact that a minister was introducing a new plan and nothing but a good thing to say, we monitor how it rises. What I especially want to discuss is research on travel. I sent a written inquiry early this year to remind me of how much money was spent in research for tourism, fishing, agriculture, and industry. I know I was doing a lot of work for the Ministry, but at the same time, it was very important for the Ministry to have this information. I have to say, I find the answer very interesting. It turns out that there is an enormous amount of money being introduced into tourism research, this important profession. I'm actually just getting answers about the Department of Professional Railroads, but I know that the Ministry of Education has some kind of money for research through the University of Akureyri, which goes to the Tourism Research Centre. This is a concern to me, how little money is given for research. The answer shows that in 2013 it is 168 million. This year's budget, 2015, included an additional 60 million people who were divided between Bifrost and RMF, whose contributions fall into budgets for 2016. In view of the importance of this industry and the importance of the work being done, this guide on travel, the fact that research is very important - it says right here: reliable data are essential, and that is an excellent source of knowledge about the importance of research in tourism - I must ask the highest level of questions. Minister: Where, then, should the money come from? What are we going to do, for example, next year? This is not something we're going to start in five years, we should already have started. And because I have these figures here, for example, I have 3 billion contributions to research in the seas, which, in fact, went out 168 million to research in the traveling work in 2013.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u11	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I can virtually say every word. That's exactly what we soon became aware of in the policy work that we presented in the last Tuesday when we were identifying the status of the tourism agency that they needed a solid foundation. We did not have reliable, timely, international comparative data to set goals. That's why it's one of the priorities we put ourselves in this policy effort. It is also true. A senator points out that there are many studies. A House of Congress, the Ministry of Education, I can mention it to the highest level. Prime Minister is conducting Iceland's Hausti site. There is an extremely important study of God's Word. We have a special agreement with Haust on the so-called travel-service bills that were suspended here in the years following a collapse. We will wake them up and suggest that this work be continued, and it will be worked as part of a travel system account. But this subject may be a classic example of why we decided to take the course we do and take in the directions we presented on Tuesday. We must work this cross-cuttingly, all the government, the articles itself, and the rural communities must share with those involved in the tourism services and before we can post certain funds for research, we need to know what research we want to spend and what research is being done today. That'll be one of the first projects we'll be doing. I say, however, that I will put it to work, and later I suggest that we bring in some contributions for research because I agree completely. A senator says they are extremely important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the answer, and I'm glad you put more money on it. I can say about this, so I keep going, I like windows in those data, that it went on, for example. up to a billion for agricultural research in 2013. I'm not saying there's always too much money there. However, we will likely see in the budget that more money comes in to research for tourism. I also find it important to point out that this environment, an environment, is extremely complex and should be a priority in bringing this on fewer hands. It's like I say, and as you can see in this, it's sort of an answer all over the place and under different counsellors. As a result, it is very good to know how many ministers arrive at this work. I'd like to encourage the Minister. I think we all have an understanding of this, but it's absolutely necessary to spit in the palms of our hands in this regard, and I repeat that request and demand that research in the interest of tourism be greatly enhanced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's challenge and encouragement, asking for help anyway. A senator and other senators amassing this, especially with the funds proposed. It is also about that, as we may have seen elsewhere in the tourism service, e.g. in the tourist market, to make the best of our resources, to set up a system so that we know the most important things to do, priorities, and energy to do that work, and to make the chain work as a whole. We've seen that the chain is breaking, that there's no link, so in the next few days, we'll put all the energy into doing the most short time, so hopefully we'll be able to offer suggestions for the council in the treatment of the budget, and it's so important for the council to decide whether or not they'll be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture on his position in terms of the bill I was offering earlier this fall, on the information and the family of truth ministers. The bill that has been presented in various forms for the past 30 years, from time to time, has a model in the Norwegian, Danish, and Swedish laws that are bound to the Minister's duty to tell the truth and to provide information to the Council. It is difficult for the Council and for the general council to make informed decisions on what is going on at the council, or in the community at its head, if you can't trust a minister to give the right answers, true answers, or give the information we need to reach a decision in certain matters. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is his position on this information and truth minister? How does he like it? Is this something he wants in Icelandic law, that it would be part of the Minister's responsibility if it turns out that the minister is not telling the truth?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u15	A respectable president. It's easy to answer. I view the rule here, and it always has been, as if by counselers the obligation to tell the council the truth and rights of all that is directed to them, just for the purpose that they have. A senator noted here, that when this council releases legal matters, members of Congress can arrange that the information they receive from the Commission is sound and correct. How we live in the law is likely to give thought and thought, but I have considered that rule to be even now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u16	A respectable president. That's not quite right, which is the highest. Secretary of Education says that this Regulation is in place. It's simply not the case. There's nothing to guarantee that a minister will tell the truth. But in view of the fact that this is already true of a minister, it may be appropriate for him to answer a few questions that have caught up in the United States and the media recently. For example, I ask you: "Whose side was Minister in China 2013? Who paid a hunting permit in Water Valley 2014? And what is the relationship of Ministers to Energy Energy Energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u17	A respectable president. I'm sure it's a sweet and an obligation to answer that question. It is the idea of traveling as well as the rest of the day. This is what a senator refers to in recent losses, and years, a large number of Chinese executives working in the field under the Ministry of Education and Culture have been here for a work visit. Then the Ministry received an invitation from the Chinese government that these work visits would be reimbursed. A delegation was appointed. In it, with me as minister, were members of the Ministry, three university presidents, Iceland's University, the University of Reykjavík, and the Art University of Iceland, along with Ranni's director. A number of ministers and vice presidents, presidents of the scientific institutions, university institutions, and others who reflect the composition of this delegation were met. The other is absolutely correct, that at the same time the Beijing agents from the company of Energy Energy, which has been discussed here, and one representative of the company Marel. Other questions have been raised that I may be able to discuss later. I'd like to tell you about a fishing trip in the Water Valley and the cost of it. A senator that I have in my heart a receipt for my payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u18	President. The University of Music in Reykjavík is in a lot of trouble. This spring agreed between Reykjavíkurburg and the state, which included that we here at the General Assembly agreed that 30 million from an equation fund would be paid to help solve this problem. The Kingdom would bring 60 million and the city of Reykjavík to 90 million. It is now reported that the government is not going to fulfill this contract to pay them 60 million. Already teachers at a music school in Reykjavík have been quit. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of a very simple question, yes or no, because I know of the 1980 law, I know a agreement from 2011, but the question is: Will the Minister please contribute to the problem of the school of music in Reykjavík, and especially the students at this school, should be resolved according to the agreement signed in spring or left for spring? Just yes or no, I don't need a long lecture, a respectable president. Second, work has long been done on how these things are to be settled in the future. Now I understand that this work has been upset by this spring and some new ideas. I'd like to ask the minister if he intends not to explain to us at the council before they will just be presented to the sheep like the Minister's. Because it means a lot to us all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u19	A respectable president. Despite a challenge. I have to say that I intend to use these minutes that I have to break it down for a while. You're absolutely right. A senator noted, in effect, there is a national law on a switch between state and team members. The law clearly states that the responsibility for this category is in the community. In 2011, however, the State did so, at the head of the then president. Secretary of education, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, to add funds there. Reykjavík's reaction was to withdraw all the funds that had gone to these matters at the time, and the consequences of that decision are now seen in the grand success of the school of music in Reykjavík. In terms of an alleged agreement that was supposed to have been made for the summer, asking if I'm gonna stand by, I just want to point out why. A senator assumes that no such agreement was made. There were meetings where, on the other hand, a representative from Reykjavíkurburg and from the United States Society's Union and at their meetings were also sitting, just right away, with an audience from the Ministry of Financial Affairs and Education. Since no agreement has been signed, the question is not to stand for any agreement. While a special community finds that it wants to solve the problems they face, it is not in such a way that some kind of list or scheme is made up of agreement, saying: "Hey, you're supposed to keep it, when there's no signature and no agreement has been made, a respectable president. It's a very ridiculous thing to do. It wasn't, like, cot. A senator said earlier, signed in spring - I cut by that word. A senator - there was no agreement signed. Because the question was, would I want to back it up? I've always said, " Yes, I'd like to do it, but it'll have to be done so that the next year there won't be a new problem. ' It is important, for example, that the city of Reykjavík falls away from its approach in this regard. The other thing I'll come to in later my answer, in terms of the presentation of the future arrangement as well as the future. A senator called in, and I'd like to mention it at the moment. A senator that I had a meeting this morning with the Parliament's General and Education Committee where it was specifically reviewed, and I reviewed my ideas of the future order that might be involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u20	A respectable president. I'm sorry if I've said that a deal was signed, I believe the natural minister that it wasn't done. But we are some sealed that if an agreement is made, it is now not necessarily the signature itself that mattered, but that an agreement has been made and an agreement with such a agreement is to be held. I'd like to say that I think the Minister has the extraordinary ability to make everything a political issue. We're talking about the challenges of the school of music in Reykjavík. That is a problem, especially for those who study there. I trust the minister understands his responsibility not to destroy the great work that has been done in music schools for the past few years. The minister can't be getting excited that I don't know that this has been explained this morning. He could have told me in a calm manner, and I look forward to learning more about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u21	A respectable president. It wasn't that it was said in an excitement, I was just telling you that this meeting took place this morning and that it was tore. A respectable president. This is a far cry from the fact that there is something in the value of an agreement that would then have been verbally arranged but would only write the names and therefore be true to it. It's a totally ridiculous thing to do. No such agreement has been made. The meetings took place, but representatives from Reykjavíkurburg and the European Union of rural society and hearing agents from both my Ministry and the Ministry of finance did not make any agreement that has not been accepted since. It is very important that this should be fully elucidated. A respectable president. I'm going to make this clear what opinion will arise if the government decides to save the situation of this unique community in this regard. If the city of Reykjavík has decided to withdraw its money from its advanced music program and form this great problem, what decisions will it make? The government comes and pays for it. What will other societies in the country do then? What does that message mean to them? Should they continue as they are doing now, pay for higher school? Or they'll say, "Hey, we're done, too, just like Reykjavíkurburg and the state is supposed to clean this up." [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is one example of the complexity involved. And when it comes to the responsibility, a respectable president, I'm not going to jump out of it. But the responsibility in the law is clearly laid down, that is a law that states that this school is responsible for the local community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u22	V.E.G. President. January 1st. had the highest. Prime Ministers announced on the Ministry's Web the first steps in decommissioning insurance. We still have no such steps. In February, I requested a special discussion at the highest level. Prime Minister on bail. She hasn't been here yet. Today, there is another special discussion of a completely different matter that has been ignored by my request. I can't accept this. I expect to talk about decommissioning insurance at the highest level. The prime minister will be held in this hall next week. I have waited eight months, since the prime minister has been able to ignore my request to talk to him - about what? One of his two main election campaigns before the last election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u23	A respectable president. The highest would be understandable. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson doesn't want to discuss here at the council why he has betrayed the election promise he has issued on bail. It has passed more than half of the terms of the election, and it has been completely resolved that the advance team is going to earn this huge campaign and never meant to earn it. Of course, the council cannot have representatives offered to deny discussion, special discussion, months, and loss together, and ministers not have to stand here responsible for their actions and answer for the way they have grown or not completed their campaigns. I strongly agree with what. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingleunaddóttir that this discussion must be held next week. It has long been a failure for a prime minister to determine which and which of these questions he will not take. It should not be his choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u24	Mr. President. I want to agree with this, and I can't say another thing about the ultimate. The prime minister should not come here to discuss this important matter, but I feel that it is a scandal. It's just a scandal. How, in effect, does the council not have the highest power? Prime Minister to come here to discuss the main campaign case of the Agency? Why is that? I would like the president to review it with us why it's the highest. Prime Minister is not here to discuss this matter. Has the highest. President no power to use the highest power. Prime Minister here to care for his duties at the council? That's what I'm asking. I'd like the answer to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u25	A respectable president. I remember asking for special discussions at the highest level. Prime Minister of the 2013 Summer Assembly I waited for a council, asked again in the fall, and waited, I think, until the end of the year. Then, at last, I received this special discussion. This is very comforting, since what happens is that you actually begin to direct special discussions with other ministers because you can only have one request for a special discussion at a time. If you wait many months, you don't get special discussions with any other minister. It's really impossible. In fact, I've waited a very long time for the discussion I'm about to take now, but I don't think that's really the case. A minister of education is to be found guilty of these matters. I've caught him at all but being ready to attend a special discussion. It's very important for the Ministers to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about something else. I would like to discuss a meeting on a budget committee and how meetings have been conducted there. It has been a flexibility on the part of members of the committee to be past the appointed meeting period. 11 Monday and 1130 on Wednesdays, it has been an agreement on those autumn days to do so. On Friday, a meeting on the committee outside the usual time is scheduled for meetings if there is a great need. Then Istavia is announced for a meeting. 2. Four members of the Parliament had made very good comments that they could not attend, and we are three of them from a North Eastern district that cannot be attended, which is a matter of great importance to our districts. This isn't amenac case, it could have been waited till Monday. I'd like to ask the highest. President: What position do members of Congress have when three or four members ask for a meeting later, and this is done well in advance? Do we really have nothing to say about that? [[The president calls.]] I know it's the highest. The president was asked to speak with the chairman of the legal committee, and I would like to have an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u27	The president discussed these matters with the chairman of the legal committee and could not be expected to present this meeting. That led to a specific argument. Of course, the chairmans of the committee are in charge of a program unless the more part chooses to change the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u28	Mr. President. I hope so. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inggadótir keeps busy and asks about when the highest. Prime Minister is going to muster up courage and discuss insurance. V.E.G. On the basis of two declarations, the prime minister was dependent on a campaign. One was that he would promote the removal of insurance. He's been doing that a dozen times since this term and almost all of us. Those promises on the lips have been constantly carried out by the senators of the House of forward. It is normal to follow through. Now I want to ask the highest. A weak hope of paying for this part of Congress work, first of all: Can the highest. Will the prime minister shrink back from such a discussion? Isn't it the right of a senator to discuss such a matter at the highest? Prime Minister? Second, does he know from his history that a senator had to wait eight months for such a discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u29	Mr. President. Now I'm here to join with what. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's diaper complains about her situation. The budget on the program and on the part of the program. Like what? A senator came in earlier than three weeks ago when it was mentioned putting Istavia on the program on Friday, October 9. The visitors had not yet been asked to come, when four of the nine members of the budget protested. However, the dog keeps its head. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, to stress this program. V.E.G. Earlier, the president said that she had reasoned with the authorities. I'm asking the highest. A president: What evidence was that? We have not had any evidence that this meeting could not be arranged. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u30	President. I agree with those who have been amazed by the Supreme Court. The prime minister did not trust himself to come here and begin a special discussion about one of the two main campaigns of the Agency before the last election. The first is clear. He promised one 300 billion to the debted homes to cover mortgage debt, and this was carried out by 80 billion or less. Then people can pay off their own savings. That was very kind of him, a respectable president. But I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u31	Mr. President. V.E.G. A loving president was so informed of the United States of Congress that he had made an honest attempt to teach the reason. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, manners. He informed him that he had taken a shop's offer and that no one would blame him. Because of the wish that lies before you. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inglebjörgdóttir I'd like to ask the highest. A president whether he also tried in vain to teach the highest order. Prime Minister of Manners My question to the highest. The President is clean, he's at the top. A president arranged for the senator to meet his natural request for a talk at the highest level. Prime Minister on Insurance? The issue is urgent, especially in the light of the declarations and information that have revealed the rise of inflation over the next loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u32	Because of these comments. The senator would like to state that he felt that there was no need for any lesson. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir manners, which was so our conversation, as it were always, was done by the sociable and cooling manner. [[Up front.]] Mr President is sorry for this foreign sleigh. It was simply stated by the chairman of the budgetary committee that changes cannot be made during this long scheduled meeting. About what? paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, 3th. Smoke. So, there is evidence that this discussion has been requested by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u33	Mr. President. It is not entirely true that the meeting with Istavia was long announced. In response to the chairman of the legal committee, it says that there is no way to call a meeting time; it cannot be put on the committee's staff to make appointments and put it in town and so on, that's the case. It is true that Friday was reserved, no one is questioning that Friday was set down. However, we realized, about three weeks ago, that we could not attend this meeting - both personal and district work. I think, when it comes to this case that's not a sink, it's not because of the budget we're talking about now, that it could've happened on a Monday. This party had not yet been invited to a meeting, so the evidence of the chairman of the legal committee is not being maintained. I can't believe it's the plan for the fall, to the highest. The president here says that nothing can be done, and it's entirely in the power of committees and it's lawful to go over the usual meeting period that is being announced and set up at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u34	President. Because of what's at the highest. A president spoke earlier after a talk. Skarphéðinsson I ask, "Do I correctly understand that the council requested, even repeated, that the prime minister in a special discussion of insurance and the prime minister will not be at the request of the Speaker of the Council? " I can't believe it. I think it must be unique that the prime minister will not be on request for eight months to make a special discussion. That's exactly what I'm saying. And I'd also like to ask Mr. President to try to teach Hauksdóttir Hauksy's manners, that's not gonna help.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u35	The president asks the senators not to have anything like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u36	A respectable president. Only on Friday, tomorrow, I'd like to reiterate what has been presented here, that it's pathetic when there's no teamwork on the subject. I think the smaller portion of the budget committee is very cooperative. As soon as we learned that a meeting with Istavia was possible on that particular Friday, we realized that we were at least three who could not be there, all from the Northeast standard. It wasn't really that difficult to change. We may not have weapons in our hands and we may have a chairman's schedule, but there are governments in committees, and at least these matters should be discussed as planned. It's about us trying to cooperate here, taking one another into consideration. It's really just what we're asking for here. It is disappointing that the chairman of the legal committee sits at his office and intends to hold this meeting despite our protests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss cultural matters in the country. I think it's a very important subject. In fact, I see no policy as to how we want to be a nation to nurture and support the culture and art of the country. I don't see as much money as I've thought to be an understanding to those in charge of the importance of a powerful cultural growth flourishing in the country. In fact, I experience that this environment is based on plans and coincidences rather than on sight or direction. Now it is impossible to discuss these matters without throwing out numbers and making comparisons, since we are, of course, discussing how we divide money and how we guarantee equality. Just to be told here, I know that there's hardly a cultural institution that's too much of the money she gets. I'm not talking about somebody cutting somebody else's ass. On the contrary, I think we need to make a contribution to this group. In fact, I wish I didn't have to take this discussion, that I didn't have to set this up as capital/land, but I'm afraid it's inevitable. First, I'd like to discuss a cultural agreement that has been in force between the Ministry of Education and the city of Akureyri. He goes on to see that the state is sponsoring business in the Akureyri Games, the Northern Symphony Orchestra, and the Akureyri Museum. This deal goes down to 138 million. K. and dropped one - sided by two million in budgets of 2014, which was a cut-off bill, as people may remember. The year 2009 saw a one - sided cut of about 10 million. K. These contributions to the management of commercial institutions in the arts and cultures outside the capital area have not been paid, as is the case, by comparable cultural institutions in the capital area, but the inflation is not confined to the southwestern corner, in order to be maintained. The arrival of the State into cultural culture at the capital of Northern countries is very small. If we look at the complete package, Akureyri will put 900 million in culture, with the government paying, say, 138 million. In some communities, this difference is bound to be much greater. I just want to talk about museums, writers' collections. This is probably true of museums in general, but some collections are on budgets, some are being funded through agreements with the Ministry, and some are almost completely fired by rural society. Some writers receive reasonable donations. A Glaive stone receives more than 42 million - that would be so if we were not to support a collection of our Nobel poets. Similarly, regarding 35 million donations, Snortotos and Crooky are being donated. The barracks houses of Akureyri, Nonause, Wins Hill, and David's House, receive no contributions from the State, and have not made since 2012. From 2009 to 2012, each collection received 830 thousand. I haven't even begun talking about Braun in Oxnadal, the birthplace of Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson, who has no contribution from the State, and in fact, the rural society of Hörgár can hardly stand for business and structure that is unsatisfying. The Minja Museum and Akureyri City run the poets in Akureyri. It's heavy. Of course, it is difficult for museums to live up to their names if there is not even financial support to hire museum guards. The answers from the Ministry have been that the poets' houses are to be drawn from cultural agreements that have now slipped into the building fund. However, the contributions to the culture fund that has been called have not just been replaced but have been directly reduced since 2009, at least in the case of the Council of Ethral. It is not acceptable that the institutions and museums that have not entered the budget at some point be referred to in this limited fund. I think we're talking about 35 million a year's cultural components, and we're talking about a region from the Mountain region of Langanes. There are very many people, who understand, to bite at these few crowns. I may not have to reenact it here, but in these libraries, there is a wealth of cultural value. The government is to provide only dignity in ensuring their business and making it possible for the nation to be proud of them, for this is a cultural failure that belongs to the entire nation. I trust in this discussion that other senators will be dealing specifically with the Orient and hopefully with other parts of the country. I know that the Orient is a remarkable object of cultural strength, even the worst. So, of course, I'd like to hear from the Minister of Education and Culture, if he wouldn't agree that this film is crooked, that the wrong is given. I find it embarrassing to arrange matters so that the country will be left behind when contributions to culture and art are involved. This may not be the ultimate one. Secretary of education to teach, it's been like this in the past, but what does he intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u38	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for bringing this important matter to the attention. In terms of cultural policies in the country, it was decided, as it were. A senator well knows how to make changes, so a national application plan has been established until the end of 2018, where different aspects or support programmes have been linked to the national community and the cultural issues added. These contracts were signed in February last year and were already valid. Their objective is to provide the funds spent on projects in individual parts of the country, regional and cultural sectors, based on regional emphasis and goals set out in the national parishion Programme. In other words, we're moving from the Ministry and the Centers to the local people's decision-making rights on how these funds, both cultural and otherwise, will be arranged. I think that's a good approach. Then, of course, there remains to be. A senator correctly mentions the sum. There's a case I'm prepared to discuss, and I specifically refer to the cultural agreements with Akureyri that are running out and need to be replaced now. Of course, this needs to be examined. I agree with what. A senator's role in the matter of compensation is causing problems and, in fact, causing a lot of problems. For example, I can take the opera, the financial contribution it has not been paid through the years. We have faced a serious situation in which we have tried to solve in recent years, but we still have a lot to do. A respectable president. I'd like to say about the cultural institutions in the country that the poethouses were specifically cleaned up. The problem was a matter of time. A senator who is now in agreement with Gunnar's Institute on Crooky, Snortotu in Ruyholti, and the Laxness Museum of the Glakafstein Thorberg's residence in Hala, East Skatings, too, has been signed and this is the government's will to strengthen that area through it. All these agencies are out in the country, although they may be able to argue about the location in Mosfellstown, how much in the country they count. But this is the situation. I'd love to do more of this. I think it's very positive for our communities, and it was important to raise our poets with such a home. In fact, much of what the local authorities have done in the field of culture has been noteworthy in the case of the poets who have lived and worked there. As for the financial contributions to the cultural institutions, I take the example of the Symphony Or National Theatre, it is just in the past two years that more money has been tried to turn to these institutions because they were in serious trouble. I would especially like to mention the National Theater, which was placed in a very difficult place because of the renewal of equipment and other items. In these two institutions, both the National Theater and the Symphony Orchestra, we have the obligation to do cultural work in the country by performing exhibitions and, in the case of the Symphonian Orchestra, to take part in the nation's cultural activities, not just an event in the city of Reykjavík. This is very important. I'd also like to draw the senator's attention to the fact that we brought up a novelty in this financial bill that turns into a child's culture. If the budget bill is approved there are funds designed to strengthen a child's culture, especially in the country to ensure that kids on the land receive, through their school work, have a higher level of culture than they do today. I took pride in the last words that it would come in. It fell out on the final meters, but it's inside right now, and hopefully they'll stay there. A respectable president. We will see the next loss of experience with this new arrangement set in February of this year. All I can say is that there is, of course, evidence that money will be added to this operation. Like what? In recent years, after the collapse, a senator was traced down to a considerable extent in general culture. In an effort to defend certain institutions, I would like to commend the then minister in this regard, but they were still in a very difficult place, if I may use such expressions, a respectable president, their financial situation had become difficult. But it is one of the projects that will be ahead of us in the years to recover and preferably add because we all agree on the importance of being a powerful and flourishing culture all over the country, not just here in the city of Reykjavík, but throughout the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u39	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion, which is very needed. We need to look especially at cultural issues throughout the country after a major cutoff that began in 2009. True, it was beginning to give a little back in 2012 and 2013, but since then there has been little improvement in government funds. So it was that the budget was distributed from the top of the budget bill, including to cultural matters, until 2012. In this way, the distribution of museum members had been severely criticized by members of all categories and by Government Accounting. Changes were made, so cultural components were transferred to regional cultural treaties. The objective of the change made in 2012 was to make the intervention more transparent and to increase confidence in the exchange of government funds. According to one estimate, money committees may not fully follow the policy and the needs of their rural communities. It was to promote the need for analysis and surveillance. The idea was that once the need analysis had arrived into the national community and provided funding for projects that would be easier for local surveillance, and then administration and perspective should be improved by individual groups, for the General Assembly is not under government law, but this is done by both the Ministry and Company. I think the problem now is mostly money. We need to place more money in culture. We need to plan how we are going, though, only to regain the situation here for the economic breakdown.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit. I'll take my heart out with her. Civilization - related activities that the State helps to cost its existence in all parts of the country. People who live far away from the capital area can use very little culture - related activities that are supported by public funds and offered. It is simply too expensive to attend all cultures and services to the capital. Enjoying art and culture is not only to be offered to capitals and the numerous tourists who attend that area. It's supposed to be available for all the people of the country. It's based, and it's equal. The state must be prepared to put money into cultural activities in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u41	A respectable president. I appreciate the initiative. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's zeal for this discussion is discussed in cultural terms at our meeting of the North Eastern standard on our journeys. This may be seen in this discussion, where representatives of the Northeast standard seem to be the largest. This is normally true in terms of cultural background. In fact, research has shown that culture is important in selection of farms as well as culture is important in the development and development of communities and employment, such as tourism. About the year 2000, as noted above, basic changes were made in the funding of national cultural work. The amount of money that had been given to the country by various medium-directed means was divided into the national part of the country through cultural agreements and clear targets set for the national part of the country and local resources for the development of capitals. This arrangement has since continued to be molded. This is a positive change, but ever since the first deals were made, funds have been added. In addition to the decrease in funding for cultural centres in the country, the social network education fund is no longer operating, but it had the role of strengthening artists from the capital. In fact, an application form can still be found on the Internet but without any context. The wealth of culture is gone; it was designed to promote cultural division between the settlements and the capitals. I'd like to ask a minister if he can tell me anything about the position of these two funds, whether they have been formally laid down, or if they have just disappeared from the surface. In my second speech, I bring in other important items.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to start thanking the advert for taking up this case, since it is very important to me, especially after traveling in northwest last week. The landscape's culture is not merely a culture in the country but a culture in Iceland as a whole. We need to stop viewing this as a piece of bite into a part of the country. We need to make sure that everyone is able to go to culture where they live, and especially if people want to live there, something needs to be done. In many parts of the country, the road system is in disrepair. The basis for traveling from place to place is that when we are building a country that is about to consume large amounts of money through tourism, people must not forget that they want to see culture. People want to know what's going on and what the local people want to do on the day, evenings, and weekends. It is vital that we put more emphasis on these matters and especially on looking at them in a larger context. The infrastructure needs to be strengthened, the roads improved so that people can move from place to place. That it is impossible between Patrekfjörður and Icefjörður, which are now to be in the same county or same part of the country, cannot be found. People are to be able to move to culture in their surroundings, and they are to be the natural rights of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's granddaughter, for taking up this matter. In some ways, I agree with the last speaker on the importance of developing culture throughout the country to strengthen us and strengthen us as tourists because much of what people want to come and see is not only natural but also how we live as our people and our culture. One thing I think is very important about opening the country in more places than at Keflavík, i.e. opening a flight precaution is just building up infrastructures in culture areas. It is not enough to offer beautiful nature but people want to come and see something. The comparison between the capital area and the region often wants to be very rough and boring because we are allowed to remain in such a position. I think it worked well in the capital area to protect culture, especially in Reykjavík. For example, I felt that in times of financial hardship, I was very important to a culture in Reykjavík. At that time, the small sum of money spent on cultural projects in the city was kept very tight. Thus culture is somehow so that with all the work that the public is doing, it is often very difficult to stand up for this money, since there are always a million other things that can be considered more important to someone. I'm the highest. The minister of culture to stand on his feet when this comes, for this is of great importance for what we have to offer and for those who want to come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u44	V.E.G. President. Our culture, history, and art are an unbreakable part of our existence and of what we base on ourselves. Hence, it is very important that all the people of the country have the equal right to culture. I'm telling a story here because history is very important to us because to her we're looking for guidance when we need to get directions forward. Happily, people are extremely active in all kinds of culture. In recent years many museums have developed around the country. I'd like to mention Iceland's Air Museum in Akureyri, which is quite remarkable. It would be a worthy task to contribute funds. I would like to mention the Sillard Museum, which is a very remarkable collection, a well attended and, of course, is of financial value. We're also talking about our four collections of poets on the budget. I'd like to mention one of the principals of Huun in the Oxna Valley that has been mentioned here, which is of great importance to us that we are in good shape and are flying. I would like to see this happen when Braun in Oxnadal got into the budget. A barn in the Oxna Valley is the birthplace of the good artist, son of Jónas Hallgrímsson. What a fine progress it would be for us to assist them and build them up as worthy memories of Jónas Hallgrímsson!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u45	A respectable president. I think there's a reason to point out that there's an amazingly flourishing culture in many parts of the country, but I am concerned with many senators about the financial contributions there because of the fact that, of course, we are to live in the same shape as those living in the country where we are supposed to have the same culture as others. I especially worry about the people's access to culture in the capital. I'm not sure a lot of people would go to the Harp if it cost 60 you. K. a man going to a concert or opera show, but a couple from Egls'positions have to pay it for the opera show in Hörpa. Many cultures that all the people of the country pay with their taxes are in Reykjavík, normal. But there is a lion if people in the country are going to take advantage of what they offer, and this is the domestic flight and high cost. paritaprevir Ignibjörg Þórðardóttir said so well here yesterday. It takes a similar amount of flight from Iceland to Oslo and from Eglsports to Reykjavík. A normal couple at the Egressium that wants to go to the capital, e.g. the opera shaver from Seville, which is now due to be shown in the Harp of All the People, needs to be paid about 126 p.m. K. For that or 63 you. K. ... fortheman. It will remember less and more about the flight fee to Reykjavík, 71 of you. K. For two, and this is not the most expensive fare, but what is booked three weeks in advance. In this example, it is expected that the couple will receive the cheapest type of rental car and stay with relatives. But it might be easier for the East to attend cultural events in London than in Reykjavík during the next loss, since the good news was received yesterday when a British tourist agency was going to begin a straight flight between London and Eglish status in spring. As a result, the introduction to Eastern civilizations is likely to be better than in Icelandic. Mr. President. Is the government doing something to balance this situation? Is she doing something to make it possible for those living in the country to enjoy the culture that its capital has to offer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u46	Mr. President. I appreciate the aesthetist. What a pleasant discussion that has taken place! I find it interesting, though, that not one man, apart from a minister, is participating in the discussion. That might say something about the group. This is often the softer case that women present in excess of men seem to be, at least at a council in this debate, though not to say so. I agree that there is a flourishing culture in many parts of the country. This is part of every community's infrastructure. There's too little money in the schedule, because of the highest. Secretary referred to the parish plans. It has long been observed among the entire country that the budget is not enough for all its members to do. That's the tax we're laying here. I don't regret it in the capital, but I would like to see more for the country and especially where Akureyri is the capital place of the north, and probably more than that, he takes a large area both east, west, and beyond, his great cultural activity and has provided a fine example of the unity of three cultures. That's what the University of Akureyri did, he pulled together, he fixed his business. It's the cultural institutions of Akureyri. They are to be rewarded for this rather than punished by cutting down or keeping their careers unchanged between years of age. Civilization - related tourism is an ever - increasing factor. We're talking about distributing tourists all over the country. That's why it's very important that we do the whole country. It is also important not to compromise requirements when it comes to the budget division rules, including with regard to budget as this has been traced to the Orient. I think the highest. There must be some adjustment to the contribution of Hofi and other cultural institutions in Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u47	A respectable president. As we have seen here, working with rural organizations in the Member States has set clear regional goals, first through cultural contracts and then on parish programmes. At the same time, I feel like my vision is missing. That's why I'd like to ask. Education minister to see if there is an overall vision in the seminary and the total government budget for cultural development, as well as to encourage such work to be done. In this discussion, many important and clear facts have been developed that we must not forget that rural, capital, and rural areas in many lands, do well with culture, and promote cultural negotiations with cultural agreements, and that we are in partnership with the State, and without cooperation with the State, for so long. A full view of this interaction between distance and culture, whether we are thinking of moving from culture to capital or within or between parts of the land, would have to include a view. All I want to do is enter the state's work report in the Northeast standard, published in 2012 and was employed at the University of Akureyri. It clearly shows that the contribution of the North and Eastern countries to cultural contributions is relatively lower than expected from the population. It also shows that the least is to expect other rural areas to do better. The report is based on figures from 2011 and unfortunately, as noted above, numbers of dollars have generally been replaced since then in the country, but, fortunately, have been able to add to the common cultures.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. Women who have participated here. I have to say and say that it is noteworthy that women of Congress are discussing national culture here. It is a matter of keeping another special discussion soon and inviting the men to participate. Thank you so much for the interesting discussion and the answers of the Minister. I'd like to mention the changes made in 2012. Hv. paritaprevir Investigated on the nature of funding, which was taken out of a financial committee and submitted to the Ministry, the Harðardóttir of Eddny Harderdótttir was over the nature of a scholarship. I think it was a good change, but the problem is that it didn't follow through with the funds. I also worry about the new arrangement as high as possible. The minister described here, i.e. The cultural agreements that went on some reason under a schedule. I second that the budget has dropped in recent years. There's got to be more to this. The fact that the National Theater and other institutions of the country are a real challenge, that they are located in the capital area, and that they are to care for the land. I'd rather see money put into what's going on in the country, which is a lot. I think I'm doing the right thing, and I'd like to mention it here that every year's amateur shows are made to come to the city and show that I don't think any strength. I'll check it out. It just came to mind when I was sitting out here in the hall. It is even a challenge to come to the city and be shown. In terms of the poets' houses, the location of the houses or the museums here and there is the nature of the case, some in the country and others not, but what I'm saying is that there seems to be no policy or vision about these collections. It's just a coincidence whether they're on the budget, whether they get a scholarship, whether they're going to deal with cultural agreements or not. That makes me uncomfortable. I don't think there's any equal rules on this whole thing. Thank you for your discussion and for the initiative of the Minister. Me and some of the council ladies here are not done because this has to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u49	A respectable president. I repeat my thanks for speaking up and for them. senators who spoke here. Indeed, it is worth considering that only women have been involved in this discussion. The above mentioned was, could it be because these are listed as soft ones? I'm going to allow me to protest, although I understand the mind of the senator who he said and understand exactly what was behind it. I think it's very important that we keep it up now that it's not. This is of utmost importance to the construction of our community, both in the country and in the whole country. You see, culture is no soft matter, it is very serious, and there is a great deal of economic and social importance in the country. So it is a good idea to take another discussion about this, such as why. A senator and an advisor mentioned. I believe we need to discuss more cultural issues at the general council. There were some questions that were addressed to me during the discussion. I pray that I may not be able to answer all of them at the time I have. I'd like to mention what came from a proverb about the museums and any market policy, any museums get recognition, etc., there's a clear policy on that and the activities of the board and the other parties involved. There are absolutely conditions for museums to meet in order to gain recognition, etc. Once again, it turns to capital. The same is true of the amateur theaters, of which money goes to them, as well as to their community organization. I've been meeting with them, and they've pointed out that there's no money there too. I reiterate it to the key institutions of all of us, whether people live on the land or in the city, for example, the National Theater and the Symphonic Orchestra are all of us on this matter. I'd also like to point out, for the comments given here on the costs of attending such events, that it's still positive for the Symphonies to negotiate with the phone companies for graphic distribution of events there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope it will be the beginning of a general approach to such cultural events in graphic form across the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u50	V.E.G. President. I'm going to let me go looking for a discussion that won't begin without the highest level. Minister of health, Kristján Þór, the son of Júlíusson, come to council and participate in it. In the past, this matter of Congress was under consideration during this terms, earlier this year, I think. That was often reported on by the highest court. A minister of health would come to his discussion and let us ask him about these matters. This matter is relevant to the Ministry of Health, this case with institutions under the Ministry of Health, and members of Congress are required to do so at 1st. of the matter that a health minister comes to the meeting and that we hear his viewpoint and that he answers the questions we would like to address. I wish for the highest. The President will grant that request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u51	The President will present this request at the highest. Secretary of health. A similar wish was made when this matter was discussed in the last assembly and the highest. The health minister responded and came to the Assembly Hall and listened to the discussion, at least Partially.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u52	President. I agree with what you wish for. paritaprevir The Ögmundur - year - old son of Jónasson reports that this discussion will be attended by a health minister. This was shown in the case of the president of the highest court. The minister would have been, in part, during the last assembly when these matters were discussed. I believe then that he will do it again but I want to show solidarity with the noise. paritaprevir The 100 - year - old son of Jónasson supports his request for this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u53	The president had already introduced the third part of the program, drinking and tobacco shopping, etc., (suspent alcohol), bill, 13 cases, etc. 13, 1st. - Was a what? A senator asking for the word for President's conference board? Well, this has evidently become a popular part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u54	Mr. President. I'm gonna say what I want. paritaprevir Jónasson's son surmise that the health minister will be here in a house and will be in the chamber to listen, and not only that but also share in our discussion. This is one of the priorities of the Independence Party, and it is a member of the council. Though serving as a minister, he is also a senator directing health matters in the country. Since we have claimed that this will go against the health policy of the country, we feel that it will be desirable to return to the discussion and answer for it. This matter may be considered and discussed, but I think it is important that the minister have a word with us on such important matters as alcohol. I can see that a pilot is good at this, and I believe that we can have good words today, but it is important that those who can deal with the consequences of the case, which are the health minister, are here to answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u55	V.E.G. President. Of course, we do not now know whether the bill that is being discussed is going to be done and will become a law, but if so, it may have dramatic consequences. The consequences turn to public health, to public health in the country, and this is a lawsuit under the highest standards. Secretary of health. In my speech on this matter, I will discuss the entry of the Minister's case and would like to hear his viewpoint and how he responds to his own words found on the Board's Web site in January 2014. I'd like to direct questions to him that include his own comments and the council's insistence on his answers to that. [[The president calls.]] Senators should take themselves seriously, ministers should take themselves seriously. If the Minister doesn't show up, it's not done. [[The president calls.]] Thank you very much. President for directing it to the Minister to come here to the conference, but I insist that there be a recession at the meeting until the minister arrives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u56	A respectable president. I'm just hoping that the council will handle this right now and that men are not trying to delay the investigation of the case at the council. This is not to say that ministers are present every time some Congress case is presented, and so is the case. We saw in the previous year what happened when this case was presented, there was an endless debate at the council, and it was always tried to delay the case from being paid democraticly, here on the front door as well as on the Senate committee. I hope, for the sake of democracy, there will be a vote here on this matter so that the greater part can be determined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u57	A respectable president. I'm glad that this matter has come to pass because I think it's time for us to talk about it again. I also like the early presentation of the case so that it can get its own discussion. This is one of the warmest cases to be discussed, or it was at least for the last assembly. It's always surprising, considering that it doesn't matter, what is human blood on either side of the line, as it were. I'm just happy again that the subject is on the program, looking forward to sharing in the discussions. That's what I said. The members of the greater body of Congress to participate in the discussions because they are not likely to do so, as it were. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson came up to see that there will be an automatic understanding that there is a need for speech at all times. This is a big deal, and this is interesting. I think it's important, and that's why I think it would be the best thing to do if most of the council members in the greater part were involved in the discussion and had a chance that there wouldn't be an automatic filibuster. Then I also wish that the highest. Minister will be here to speak with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u58	President. I don't get a proper word for it. paritaprevir The son of Karl the son of Garðarsson, that we are in a hurry, is trying to prevent a democratic debate about this matter. No one's doing it here. However, it is the opinion of many and including me that a health minister is right to attend this discussion from the beginning. I think it's an added democratic treatment that he's here and can answer for what he's saying. paritaprevir The jealous son of Jónasson pointed out that he wanted to ask the minister in particular. This involves the exchange of opinions and questions and answers. That's why I want the Minister to be here again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u59	Mr. President. I agree with that wish or claim to the highest. This discussion is attended by a health minister. I'm pretty sure that among the arguments against the bill we're discussing below is the very fact that alcohol consumption, according to World Health Organization information, is the third leading to mankind's health risks. This is no small thing, so it is normal to the highest. The minister of health attends the discussion and participates in it. I'd also like to take this opportunity to protest as much as possible. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said that everything is here to delay this matter. This was the day before yesterday a detailed discussion of the country's future currency. [[The president calls.]] Is it strange that members of Parliament would like to discuss such a matter well? That's not a saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u60	A respectable president. Actually, I think it's a third experiment now in about ten days, where we're trying to take this thing on. The other two times, there was an enormous amount of talk ahead, so this matter was not found out. And let us not forget, when it comes to democratic discussions, that there was a great and democratic debate over this matter here the last winter. It's not like this case has not come up here. This case has been discussed over and over again. We will now have the expected day and even the next few days in exactly the same arguments that we received last winter. Isn't this just fine? So why don't we just start allowing this matter to be done in a natural way and in a vote so that more of the council will be allowed to determine the course of this issue? Let us not forget, too, that all these discussions, all the talks that will likely be delivered today and tomorrow and the delays that have taken place in this matter, have led to the failure of other issues, important issues, have not yet been established. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u61	Mr. President. In view of the last speaker's words, I want to point out that the program is in the hands of a president. It's not in the hands of the government. As we have seen, I would like to have this part of the government to come here and discuss these matters, the one and the other. Because this was the point of an event scheduled for the day before yesterday, it was one of the people I see coming here on the rosary, anyway. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who brought them up with a little discussion about the currency business, which was just the best and, at least, enlightened me considerably on that matter. I wasn't very good at it, and I thought it was a good conversation. Thus, discussion leads to increased understanding. Despite the wind. A senator may feel that this matter has been discussed just in view of the fact that people are in great need and that this matter is serious, it may not agree with what they allow to talk about. It's also democracy. I specifically encourage the senators, who I know are many who are not at peace with this matter, to participate here in the debate, and to tell us why.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u62	A respectable president. I can't wait to discuss this. I think this case is more important than people think. I don't agree to cancel this schedule or postpone a meeting, we're just supposed to talk about it. But I reject it, with all due respect for what is happened. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, that it will be the same talks and the same reasoning as last year. Sure people will talk about them, but I think there will be new reasons, there will be new speeches. I'd like to point out that last year's debate led some to change their mind, others to doubt. It was an upbuilding discussion, and I hope that I can have some difficulty. Councilmen with me in charge, if they think it's a filancy that's about to begin, and make us who are interested in the case a favor to participate in the discussion, risk it, in order to become as rich as possible. I have full faith that it can be very good and beneficial for all. I'm not making any comments that this is on the program. With regard to the general part of the program, it is difficult for Congress to get on the program, that is a problem we all face.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u63	A respectable president. Everyone in this room knows there's a disagreement. That's just the best part. There is controversy over many matters in this council hall, and members of Congress have every right to speak up and express their views on this matter as different. Also, it is meet at some time in itself that a health minister should be present. It's like the highest. The president has told them that he has given them a message to the highest level. Minister. V.E.G. A health minister is a man who wants to come here and be with the discussion if he can and we'll see what happens. I'm gonna wait, too. Councilmen to allow this matter to happen, just so that we can discuss it and discuss the differences in the area, but do not attempt to destroy the matter in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u64	A respectable president. I'm recommending case number number one. 13, bill to legalize the changing of the law of drinking and tobacco, the law on the increase in state funds, alcohol laws, and the price of alcohol and tobacco, in subsequent adjustments. First, I want to say here at the outset that I'm flattered to be on the Senate case and that I get so much attention, that members of Congress think it is so important that the Ministry class should be finished. I don't mind. However, I expect the Ministers to be fully involved, so the importance of the matter needs to be prioritised. That's exactly what this case is all about in my mind and why I think it's important to bring it to the council and put it forward, that's priorities. As far as I know, all members of the Parliament will be concerned about the priorities and importance of it in the basic services of the country. That's where I'm talking about security and law enforcement, health, transportation, so I don't talk about education. All of this is the foundation of the Kingdom that we must support, and all talk of on days when setting priorities. I don't think there's anything less important about your priorities at times. There is a limited amount of time for the executives and the government to manage alcohol, keep good products, and good service in liquor stores. The result is also money, and it has been shown by surveys and reports that holding out a liquor store that is paid up by a total tobacco sale requires considerable money. Is that accurate? I say, "No, it's not a paradigm at all. " That is why this matter is so important to me, except that it has many other advantages to the country, to shopping, and to that sort of thing. This is also a prince's case, one of the few princely issues we discuss very much here. Therefore, I am happy that the members of the council will be interested in this matter and will participate in the conversation I look forward to and hope that it will be perturbable, based on evidence rather than on emotion alone. When the bill is composed, it is taken into account that alcohol is no ordinary consumer. Everyone agrees on that. There has never been a doubt about this, but the goal is to keep a strict charge on dealing with alcohol so that there will be a strict setting to prevent what we all want to avoid, that drinking among youths will continue to increase. This is taken into account. For example, this is also done by all, no matter how old they may be, they will need to show identification. There is a limit to opening time, there is a need for permission from local communities, alcohol cannot be allowed to sell in portable particles, and in similar ways to the number of young people who are likely to collect. All of this is done. Why is this still implemented so that every store, whether shopping or special shopping shops or a gourmet camp, or what is its name? Why is it not only allowed for the private to sell the product but also for the special store? It is because this time the service in the country would not be the same. It would be cut down, and the country would not have the opportunity to get it out of it. One of the main objectives is to promote the national service core. We have a 49 wine camp today, but we have 74 societies. The Kingdom does not make all the regional conventions as high as we hear of the challenges we face in carrying out our assignments throughout the country. I believe this is one part of strengthening this core to render the service, if storekeepers can get the quality numbers the liquor dealer gets into the business, let alone now that tourists are spreading around the country, this will return the money from the traveller to the country. Let me give you one example of how wrong it is that the government has this sale. The Arrangements of Aarnes County include two settlements, one by the side of the Blue Forest, and the other. Both positions have the main necessities of the grocery store. These people are striving to get residents, tourists, and others in the area to shop with them. The government decides to set up a liquor store next to one of the shops, not the other. What can the little storekeeper do with the liquor store next door? The competition has been destroyed in an instant by the State. It's just not acceptable. Today, too, we see a so - called brewery building in many parts of the country. They're making beer out of the best water in the world. For example, one of Ireland's largest tourist attractions is showing such factories, how these are produced. This is a growing opportunity for tourism. If these parties could offer tours and sell these goods to tourists, foreign currency, and extra alcohol costs, this would be to strengthen the construction of the country. Also, traders say they don't mind fighting tourists who want to buy alcohol from them with their capts. It's just something they know most of the people from their own country. Then we learn that tourists, such as South Europe, who have known this and who have been free in this trade - have been able to help find out that alcohol consumption is falling together, especially in wine. However, the problem of alcohol consumption in Iceland is very high to monitor this as the stream of tourists grows so fast and in mutations and those who have a license increase by hundreds of percent and are approaching a 1,000 - percent increase over a period of 20 years. This is also evident in the fact that increasing sales of alcohol in this country do not pass through the wine camps. As the concentration of wine camps increases, sales have been shown to increase, not proportionately, but to decrease compared with the number of liquor camps. That's one of the arguments that has been used against this bill. They're two, it's ATVR's profit, if you've got a private sale and you don't have to increase the number of shops in the capital area, they don't need to keep raising them with the equivalent costs. It reduces the profit. Others say that increasing the bioavailability will increase the consumption. Is the increase in liquor stores reducing the profits of Vienna's store? This is the government today. There are often so many twins in this discussion, which I hope we will get rid of. Since I'm talking about what ATVR has been doing, it's clear that it's about 30 to 50 million a year in the market. It's just about pointing out that she's selling alcohol, although she does it under the signs of remembering the terms and the like. People can always be reminded to have IDs, they don't need to show the Logos later on. It's a mysterious advertisement. The largest alcohol ad in the country is from Vienna. What has been done in organizational matters? I know as much as the government in the capital area is trying to reduce the use of the private car, try to strengthen the neighborhood's service core, and get people to walk or cycle when they attend their closer service. A TVR has a declared policy of transporting all its stores to the major traffic pathways so that they are the most visible. How, for example, has this developed in Hafnarfjörður? The liquor store left the downtown core of Helluhuun next to the supermarket. The fish store, the computer store, the pharmacy, the whole thing, is slowly lost and loaded around the track. There is no house on the scene from the store. This is happening everywhere in the capital area. Where are the largest shopping centers, and where is the largest store taken up? Isn't that at the mall and the Minipet? We do not go into these stores without walking past large glass walls with a lot of alcohol on the inside. If this bill succeeds, we can picture ourselves - yes, some have mentioned that Harlot will sell alcohol - that alcohol will no longer be within the lobby and will be in the corner. I just ask for it in my discussion to look at the whole matter and from many perspectives other than emotional. Then I'd like to come to the cost of this. I believe I have been able to demonstrate that the entire tobacco dealer maintains the benefits of ATVR. The tobacco is purchased as a total sale from a whole dealer and then sent for free to the retail stores. It's the only tobacco management with 18% stress. Alcohol has 16.5% of stress and is also sent free. It's bought from the whole dealer and then sold in a little sale. Outside alcohol, these 49 stores have to be run with box systems and staff and stocks and housing expenses and all related items, the average seeding of only 16.5%. Every man sees that this account doesn't work out. For example, a new store was opened in Kopasker. True, you cannot take the shopping basket to shop at the grocery store without looking into the NTVR because the store is inside the store. At the last month of the year, December, this store was rolling 1.4 million at the NTVR. Each person sees that it does not pay to carry on a whole business venture with all the costs it brings for this well - being. If the local grocery store, which is trying to carry out the services for the local population and sell supplies, had been able to get this item into the business, it would surely have made a difference. If anyone, the treasure would not have been great, but it would have been a big difference. Here I am showing that ATSVR property can be loosened and used to cover debt, put in the health system or the police, and the store becomes more practical and, as a result, earns more money in the state funds. The tourists shop more so that we get more money and more alcohol costs from foreign tourists, which we can so use in a public health fund, as suggested in the bill, the percentage would go from 1% to 5%. What are we going to do with this money? Yes, we will follow the advice of the World Health Organization. What does she say? If you are going to do something related to public health and alcohol consumption, help the worse and the sickest and their children.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u65	Does the World Health Organization support the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u66	I have not carried the bill to the World Health Organization, as asked from the hall, but I have read the World Health Organization Action Programme, which shows that the price is twice as much than the bioavailability. [[Up front.]] I believe that bioavailability will only change, but it will not increase with the development of the bill. The government will still have full control of the costs of alcohol. Another factor identified by the World Health Organization is that government officials of each institution or government company are often hard to know what to call an uncontrollable ETSVR, trying to run the camp like normal companies. Regarding this, the World Health Organization says that the private members are likely to keep their brand, that they do not delay, but public members have no fear in this subject, and therefore they are more likely to abide by the strict rules of alcohol law. It's in the bill. I believe that there will be a good step forward to receiving additional contributions to public health so that you can concentrate on dealing with the big problem of alcohol consumption in Iceland today despite our strict and arbitrary system - despite that. That is why we need, and I am the first man to put up the fight, to reduce consumption, and to help those who are the weak to be reproved and their families. [[Up front.]] That is what we must do and must emphasize. Speaking of this, I'd like to come in on drunk driving. He has also been called by many, that he will increase, and so on. I told him earlier that ADTVR had moved its stores to the stockways. They're not walking from house to house. One of the easiest places for police to find those who drive drunk is outside the Camp of Vienna. Now we are just encouraging people to drive by moving these camps further away. There are many things to think about in this regard. Then there's one factor showing how old the system is, that's technology. Technology has advanced rapidly, but the laws and laws and the environment have not taken into account. The situation today is that the Internet market is always increasing. Many people sell alcohol online, and the Icelandic nation can shop on the Internet and get it to their homes, knocks, and accepts it, as long as the person lives abroad, and does not pay taxes or fees in Iceland - as long as that is the case. This is possible, and we can see happening right now, in a few hours. It's just... It's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... Little by little, a store of alcohol is moving from the government's liquor camps to the special transport of those who have a liquor store and through the Internet store. If we wait a minute, we may not have to change this, everyone will stop shopping at the liquor stores anyway. Also, a lot of criticism has been made on the bill that it does not go far enough and does not home advertising. Why is access to strong alcohol needed behind a counter or in a locked house? There's a little separation there. I think these are just things that can be discussed. The alcohol law is big and big, and the goal of this bill is not to have too big a jump at once. The answer is that we take it slow. So it is also suggested in the bill that the legislation will be reviewed after one year, how it has gone. The current system where ATVR can run its liquor stores for up to one year after the new system is activated is not being thwarted. If this bill is approved, from September 1, 2016, a new system will become valid. There are a number of factors to review in this matter. For the research that's always been on - the case was given a lot of discussion in a full-scale Board of Education last year and here at the council, where there was always a witness - I still haven't seen how these studies have been applied to Icelandic reality or how to point out that in other countries where the store has been given free samples of research to show that the consumption is automatically increased compared to the bill we're dealing with. The tests are always being pointed out, not on what is being pointed out and how they apply in this case. As a result, I have not had any concern about this public health. Besides, as I came in earlier, there will continue to be a strict supply of alcohol traffic. It's not like it's going to be total freedom. On the contrary, some studies and studies indicate - there is a certain measuring problem - that alcohol has been added to them because the seas have been relaxed. A report in Britain recently published that as they extended opening time and so on, this does not have the negative effect, but it was predicted on the contrary. This is supported by what is my religion and my opinion and religion in politics, that we must trust the individual. We shall not need to know before all the people of the land, to the people of the land. The people in this country don't trust us, so I don't understand why we should be aware of it. It's about bringing the responsibility. It's called freedom with responsibility. I think it's one of the main reasons why I don't drink alcohol myself. I just got the message that I was the one who took this decision, it would be a tough decision because drinking alcohol would be no joke, and I would have to decide if I would. I had to be responsible and make this decision for me, and I have. I decided not to drink alcohol. That's what it's all about, trusting the people, not setting a rule and rule that they're going to come up with in total rebellion. And I'd like to come to a different conclusion as to the penalty. They're special. The current bill has made changes to which the 1st smaller parts of the General and Education Committee followed a discussion on the Committee, including making the repair section clearer. The punishments are not being weighed down or reduced. Rather, they are just making the section clearer, as seen in other laws recently, so there is more to what is meant. That is one of the changes made. Then there are the changes I made about how everyone would need to show identification, review within a year, and that the liquor stores would be allowed to work for one year after the system was made up. Many people are concerned that the use of alcohol in shops will be reduced. I believe that the private citizen is giving a better service and will do this better than the government does. But if this were to be the case, it would be confirmed that the Icelandic government would have spent the public tax on drinking alcohol choice in Iceland. Who will justify it? Who will justify using tax money for it? If the private person isn't gonna offer extra selection, it's because the product doesn't sell and there's no profit, so if the government has done it, it must have been done with loss if the private person isn't able to do it. There must be some evidence of this. I'm going to stress here at the end of my talk that it's all about priorities. We're supposed to use the government's resources and powers to police, health care, education and infrastructure, number one, two and three. We're not supposed to be standing in a small sale that's going to happen either of our private parties with a wine license, through an Internet network, and a direct import. I think it's very important. We can use the profits we receive of this to work on procurators and to overcome the ills that are already consumed in Iceland. The problem is much already. I hope we're going to have a financial discussion here, save our feelings a little later, and let the case come back here in the second. and get a vote. I thank you for the interest shown. It confirms that this is an important matter, so it needs to be discussed. It is not customary for members of Congress to get a lot of discussions or major participation in the discussion. I'm just celebrating. I'm looking forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his story and for his report. The question I wanted to direct to. The speaker is: He question reports and results of international research, including comparative reports from The Communication Guide from 2011 based on 17 data including From the United States, Canada, Sweden, and Finland, suggesting that by privatizing alcohol sales, an increase in consumption will be about 44% median? Is this the wrong conclusion by the prime minister and all other studies that point in the same direction? Are they based on misunderstandings? Or is it true that by putting alcohol in the grocery stores, twice the number of sales places, probably from 49 to 112 or anything like that, 200, will the consumption increase? [[200.]] How much alcohol consumption will be increased or the average consumption of alcohol per person according to the standards?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm not going to confirm that privatization has led to a 44% increase based on the study, rather than to thank the freedom of southern Europe for the fact that alcohol consumption has fallen on each person. I have not seen in any of those who presented these tests what it was about the transition into the privatization that led to this increase. Canada and the United States are rich next to each other and have their own rules. Will it be compared to a land that does not have borders on another nation? It's so hard to compare. And then I just have to get a better answer in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u69	A respectable president. I couldn't quite understand the answer, would I? those in the bill believe that alcohol sales will increase or decrease the bill to the law, but I am told that they will be hoping that there won't be much increase, if not, none, will even be drawn together, which would be across all the experience and results of all the research done, a highly scientific project and are listed as well. in the reviews of the surgeon general and other good reports received last. But let us assume that the consumption will increase. Then I'd like to change the question and ask why. A senator: How much does this increase? How much would it have to grow in order to do so? Senators would like to drop from the bill. What to do with long-term diseases, oncology, diabetes mellitus, liver disease, violence including Violence against women and children, and road accidents are increasing dramatically. Transporters would drop from the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u70	A respectable president. I want to reiterate that that's exactly what it is, we believe that consumption of which Iceland will not increase with the bill, we don't think it will have this effect. That's why I want to challenge it. A senator in his talk below, as I expect him to deliver, that he will apply these studies to the variables that are here, to the reality in Iceland, how to demonstrate that these studies are relevant in this country and how he will explain the reduction of alcohol consumption to every nation in southern Europe, where there has been a great wide degree of freedom. I say selling alcohol will clearly increase the number of tourists and the increased access of tourists to alcohol. For the Icelanders, this will be what I think will have a positive effect because we're trusting them and moving it back to normal. It's about the culture of each nation, what culture is. It is one of the goals of Vienna to increase wine culture, e.g. wine with food.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u71	V.E.G. President. I meant that it was in the bill's report that some increase in alcohol consumption could be expected. But let's leave it to each other for a while. I agree with that. A senator wants us to have this objective discussion. I have to say at the beginning of this discussion that this bill is fighting against almost all community interests that could be my judgment. It's against public health. With consumers, this will likely reduce the selection and cost will rise. For state funds, this is a loss of money, but, of course, these are the interests of the independent party, and that is the Independence Party that is running this case. The Senator said it was mostly a senator's case, but the head of the Party and the minister of finance said otherwise in the fall. But my time has run out. What I wanted to ask you. A senator: Do I understand that he reads it out of the World Health Organization's approval that it supports the views presented in this bill? Am I right? And the surgeon general would be included.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u72	Madam President. You're right about what you're talking about. According to one member of the World Health Organization, this is not an ordinary consumer product that we agree with, so we have a strict system around it, not absolute freedom. That's why it's gone away. I'm not saying that the bill is written so that the World Health Organization would accept it in its own way. We took advantage of information provided by the World Health Organization in the processing of the bill and how they wanted to approach the matter, even though I did not take advantage of their entire report. I want to challenge it. A senator gives evidence of how these reports and public health issues would go on worse with the bill, helping.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u73	V.E.G. President. I'll do so, but I'm suggesting that the members of this country, including reports by the World Health Organization, have spoken very bluntly on this matter. There I refer to the governor in particular, which published his declarations on July 17, again, and again, when the case was last before the Council. I also look forward to having every drug - abuse organization and youth - oriented organization opposed this bill. Although the head of the Independence Party spoke for its hat here to the year's policy debate, the Council has had other words. This is where I refer to statements on the Council's website from January 24, 2014, where there are declarations that go in the opposite direction. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that it is normal to do so. Is the minister of health present for this discussion? [[The president calls.]] He has been reluctant to attend a council hall when this matter has been discussed, but he has a reason. A senator discussed this with a health minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u74	A respectable president. First, I'd like to comment on the statements made by the governor and other societies. Again, I reiterate that they have not pointed out how the implementation of this bill will increase consumption as much as the problems they believe will occur, saying that research shows that increasing the bioavailability will increase the consumption. I have pointed out that at the same time as youths drink a lot less alcohol than before, alcohol sales have increased by 1,000 percent in Iceland. Sales of alcohol have multiplied, and drinking among youths is drawn together at the same time. They have never been able to show how this increased bioavailability, which they think is the bill, will increase consumption if the other increased bioavailability has not been. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and especially for proving the point that there are new points here, and the argument continues, rightly. I wanted to ask you what. A senator until opening time. The bill assumes that rural communities can limit opening time, but they cannot decide to have it more freely than the bill indicates. According to the bill, the opening time for the stores that will be able to sell alcohol is only 8 o'clock in the evening. I think of it as a flaw in the bill, and I wonder, " Why are my societies not simply given free hands with this? ' I can't imagine that the discrepancies of local rules would have considerable impact, at least not so that the rural communities could not react to themselves. So I wondered why it has to be in the law, why it doesn't have to be determined by the communities themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u76	A respectable president. I'll agree with this. As I told you earlier, we took into account what the setting is like in other countries, where the time of opening is limited and there they have either open to eight or ten at night. On the other hand, I'm like a whale. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is in favor of increasing democracy and will trust the communities to make that decision. This is a point I'm prepared to discuss, but I decided to keep it in the bill where it is. It seems that there are so many Catholics that it was not necessary to go too far in some cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u77	A respectable president. I thank you for your clear answer, and I look forward to working on the case on a committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this bill that wasn't in the bill last time, but it seems to have caused some misunderstanding in the discussion. This is about 24. The bill that says 26. The law says so. It is reported that it will protect fines or prisons up to six years if an individual engages in employment import, entire goods, retails or alcohol production without permission, etc. and even if it's not professional, according to the B- team. This has been very critical. Many people think this is coming in with the bill right now, but it's already under alcohol, and I can't remember the article right now. This is a matter of personal interest to me, i.e. that people can build their homes for personal consumption, without fear of penalties and punishment, in prison for up to six years. Now we know that a lot of people are doing this. I don't have enough time to cover all the questions, but I'm just... A senator prepared to revise this law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u78	A respectable president. You're right. A senator comes in, this point was in the law. It's making it clearer, so there's light. There is no need to argue about what can be done or what to do with such a firm approach. But I support all the changes in a spirit of liberality, and I'm prepared to discuss them, if for that reason there is more of the committee that will be involved in more part of the council, I'm ready for that discussion. It's about how trusting the council is in a single leap of liberality. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u79	V.E.G. President. I can't last this minute to go over all the misunderstandings and misinformations that appeared in the history of the whales. A senator, but I intend to go through it better in the talks I'll be moving on. There's one thing I'd like to ask. A senator about. He wrote that increased supply at sales sites has not led and does not necessarily lead to increased consumption. I'd like to point it out. A senator has a table from the governor's office showing that the increase in pure alcohol from 1988 to day dato is from 4.5 liters to 7.2 litres. Where is this increase of sales the most? She's not with ATVR, she's at the restaurants. The number of restaurants has grown tremendously, and I say: How is this apocalyptic that this increased availability in restaurants created much of the increase in consumption? How it grieves with that opinion. A senator's saying that this work is now being done when sales sales are growing four times will not affect one's consumption? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u80	A respectable president. I thank the senator for this explanation and to help me explain my situation. There has been an increase in alcohol sales through the winehouse, which has increased by 1,000 percent. At the same time, the consumption of mid - teens has declined. The number of tourists has increased considerably, and the number of winehouses is largely due to the growth of tourists. That's exactly what I've been saying before, selling alcoholics will increase because the tourist shops more. It will be very effective to accurately measure whether the consumption of the land is increasing or contracted. The other thing, I'm sure the culture changes too, i.e. how to drink, whether it is heavy or evenly heavy. InTVR itself is to promote changes in wine culture, drinking more wine with food and less in the use of alcohol once and once. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u81	V.E.G. President. Once again, I'm going to point him out. The report from the surgeon general is to be read a litre of liters per person because the 2004 - Lbund target was reached, and it is still in 7 liters 11 years and 1 million tourists later. Travelers don't affect the consumption of only small amounts, they shop in the Freest. There's one thing I'd like to ask you. A senator about. It seems to me he didn't read the bill. He said earlier that the State could still affect the price of alcohol after that change. Then I'd like to point it out. Senator on Level 21. The bill that says, by permission of the President: While free from charge on alcohol, it is forbidden to sell alcohol under price. Where does the State enter from braking the value of alcohol when free, free from charge? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u82	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator for coming up with the evidence. It still stands in 7 litres ten years later, despite the increase in wine restaurants and sales positions, increasing bioavailability over the ten years has not changed the number of 7 liters. I'll just agree with that. The key is the cost of this. Since it is forbidden to sell alcoholic beverages under price, alcohol costs, taxes, and other factors must be returned to the State. This is so that alcohol cannot be co-administered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u83	The price of sale...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u84	If the sale price is free and the application becomes less than 18%, and this results in an increase in alcohol consumption, it would have been possible to raise the costs of alcohol abuse if it seems necessary. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u85	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of this discussion at noon, I quietly called for the President's conference board and asked for the highest order. A health minister would be present for the discussion because the matter depends on his work. We're dealing with public health. I wanted to direct questions to him on the basis of statements made in his name and in his Ministry and published on the board's information site in January 2014. V.E.G. The president of the council, Einar K. Guðfinnsson, said that the highest. A health minister would have been informed that his presence was requested during this discussion. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Active President whether any reaction has occurred from the highest level. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u86	The president may say that he has not responded, but the president expects them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u87	V.E.G. President. This was warned at the beginning of the discussion or that there would be no speech code here. The question is, Is this a filibuster on my part? Yeah, I want to keep this case to the highest level. Here, then, the health minister responds to the material and material questions directed to him. This case has been presented as a matter of Congress, but the head of the Independence Party has also adopted it as part of its own policies. I've referred to statements published in his name and highest. A health minister who simply wants to receive information from the highest level. A health minister who is to be part of this discussion. I feel that there will be a break in the discussion until the highest level. A health minister will be here for the discussion. [[The president calls.]] I've got the highest attention. The chairman of the council explained that when the matter was first addressed, these wishes were offered and always ignored by the highest degree. Minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u88	Madam President. I agree with this wish, as it was this morning, and I'm rather sorry that in such a long time a minister didn't get caught and he didn't come to see if he could head over the discussion today. It is very important to know that, as we have seen, it is the privilege to give a thorough witness. In view of the discussion taking place here, a minister whom the senator would like to include him today. There have also been questions raised directly to the matter by a candidate of the forward party, which I believe would be most interesting to get answers to. A minister to us. I agree that it's really impossible to start this conversation unless it's at the top. A minister may accompany us today or not. I don't think there's too much to ask that a minister can be reached at this time or is approaching any answers from him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u89	A respectable president. I'd like to make a quick comment to the telecommunications file. I would have enjoyed seeing more independence from her. Then I'm not complaining that they don't do what they do. I think this is the characteristic of the one that happens too often at the General Assembly; the greater part assumes that the lesser part is in a lawsuit, the highest. A minister is not present, the smaller part complains about it, it appears to be a filibuster, and the majority do not agree. It is a ongoing problem that more things and smaller things do not communicate in matters of great interest, such as this matter. I thought it best to make a comment and encourage the highest. A minister to come here at the General Assembly to discuss this with us so that we can shorten the discussion about his presence and continue our discussion on the subject and then the presence of ordinary members of the council. More than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u90	Madam President. Could be at the top. When we are discussing this important matter, is the health minister not in the hall? Like others, I wish that he would be called. Of course, it would not be the highest. A minister of health would be already being discussed with members of Congress if this wasn't the state of Congress. Financial and economic ministers mentioned the top policy debate. Prime Minister and another member of the Independence Party too. There is a bill being given to those in charge, at least as members of the board. A lot of people, they think it's very important. As a result, we need to have the highest power. A health minister in the hall to review the consequences if this bill becomes legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u91	Madam President. The issue we are discussing is one of the priorities of the Independence Party. That is why it is quite strange that so far there is no independent person, there is no part of the case on the rosary. Only the carrier has spoken. I think it's really weird. I am always amazed that we do not have a democratic, open - door exchange from the Elder's torture, for that is, of course, where we should be discussing matters, not just on committees, we are also to discuss matters openly. It matters. I also find it shocking to hear if it's not at the top yet. Secretary of health. I would have thought that it would not take much deliberation skills on the side of the highest level. The minister to conclude that we would have wanted him with us in our discussion today. That's what we asked for during our last assembly. [[The president calls.]] I want to reiterate it to the highest. President, she's trying to get the Minister and get him here to talk to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u92	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill to correct a change in the law about a store with alcohol and tobacco. In case of law, sales of alcohol will move from NTVR to the grocery store. If a survey was conducted among the people and asked if you could buy alcohol at the grocery store, would many respond yes? But what if the question was said in the following way: ▪ Would you like to buy alcohol at grocery stores if a large number of studies clearly show that it will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption in the country? Drinking alcohol increases the incidence of serious diseases such as cancer, liver disease, and diabetes? Studies also show that increased consumption of alcohol results in increased rates of road accidents and increased rates of violence, including for use in women and children What would they say? I think that most people would view the consequences of too negative and would resist drinking at the grocery store. But is it certain that alcohol will lead to increased consumption? That's a key question. The answer to that question may be very well - known and based on a number of studies on how this change has been published, since the change has been made around the world to transfer alcohol from special liquor stores to grocery stores and even the change to return to special liquor stores. The result is always the same, especially in youths, when alcohol is opened at grocery stores. There is no basis for believing that there will be another experience. But what about today's situation in Iceland in international context? According to the data of ESOAD, Icelandic youths consume one of the least alcohol from young people in Europe. In Norway, Sweden and Finland, where the state also deals with alcohol, drinking is generally small but in Denmark, where alcohol is sold at grocery stores, young people consume most of the things in Europe. We can learn from Swedish experience. Sweden stopped selling medium beer at grocery stores in 1977. At that time, an eight percent of the alcoholics got together. Alcohol - induced death and illness decreased for six years, especially for young people. The number of road accidents decreased by 15% in the average of 10◯19 years after 1977. A report on the possible consequences of selling alcohol in Swedish grocery stores was released in 2010. It was estimated that alcohol consumption would increase by 37% with significant adverse consequences for public health, mortality rates as well as increased rates of violence and disease days. The same can be learned from Finnum. In 1969, sales of medium - strong beer began at 17,400 grocery stores in Finland. As a result, selling alcohol was increased by 46%, all groups increasing their consumption. Comparison Report from The Community Guide from 2011 based on data from 17 countries, including From the United States, Canada, Sweden, and Finland, an increase in consumption of alcohol sales has been a median of 44%. All these international studies are based on real experience, so it is difficult to overlook them. In Iceland alcohol consumption is the lowest thing that happens among the peoples we compare with. So there is a lot of room for consumption, but there is little room to reduce its consumption. According to the surgeon's website, all international studies indicate that the removal of private liquor sales will result in an increase in total consumption. Furthermore, research shows that concomitant alcohol consumption increases the social costs of alcohol - related problems. It is reminded that alcohol, which leads to an increase in alcohol consumption, is likely to increase the incidence of violence and other social problems that can double the social cost of alcohol consumption at present. There is little doubt that if the bill is legal, alcohol consumption, and the result will be highly negative to society. For me, this is reason enough to take sides with the bill. Perhaps there are some who want to accept the increase in alcohol consumption and poor public health in the country if there is any benefit to consumers. But is there any benefit to consumers? The interests of consumers are likely to involve the ability to buy a good selection of alcohol with moderate stress, and neither seems to be a problem today. The extent of ATSVR has improved dramatically from that observed in the old days. TVR will receive good reviews in attitudes scans, inferior to private grocery stores, as the product selection in ATSVR is generally good and that is wonderful in large wine stores. Business friends can consult employees who are generally well versed in the available products. TVR has thus contributed to the improvement of wine culture in the country. It is hard to see that the grocery store can offer as varied as it can be. In terms of the price, there is little evidence that the use of alcohol will be reduced to a grocery store. The government will still lay on alcohol. The small sold-off ATVR is only 121-18%, which is probably considerably lower than most food stores could accept. A fine example of this is found in a report in the morning issue of October 2nd, U.S.A. The bottle, but the same wine cost them 870 bucks. of ATTVR. It can be calculated that the application of trades was high to 80% but not 18% at the time of law at ATTVR. During the last session, the General and Education Committee received a number of reviews on the subject, which is a very informative reading. Most of these narratives warn and oppose the bill. With the permission of a president, I would like to quote some of these reports. The review of Iceland's Medical Association, by permission of Presidents, shows that the union will strongly oppose the law of this bill. All studies show that alcohol increases alcohol consumption and thus a problem resulting from increased consumption. There is no reasonable evidence to recommend changing the current drinking system, i.e. at special shops " By permission of the President, " says the National Nurses Association: Thus, the change in alcohol sales to grocery stores is opposed to increasing access to alcohol, which will lead to an increase in total consumption, which is the opposite of improved public health. The social security of public health experts proclaims opposition to the entire bill. The Society believes it is a big step back, in prevention, to provide an additional access to alcohol by moving alcohol from a state to the grocery store in the way the bill suggests. In part, according to the surgeon general's statement, by permission of the president: ▪ On the basis of the best available data, as well as a review of the results of studies and advice The World Health Organization on Alcohol Action is limited to alcohol one of the most effective ways to cope with alcohol abuse and thus reduce the damage caused by alcohol consumption. This perspective is reflected in the Agency, including in her policy to 2020 under the term Health 2020: A European Environment Agency and the 21st issue for the 21st court and Global Commission to meet the lamentable use of alcohol. So let the governor oppose the law of the bill. It says, with permission from the President: It has been shown through studies that alcohol has been shown to increase its bioavailability to an increase in alcohol consumption. Increased alcohol consumption is likely to adversely affect the lives of children. Not only children who are adversely affected by their parents'drinking or foreseers but also children and young people who are tempted to drink alcohol because of easier access. The success of the preemptive work of the past and the decrease in alcohol consumption among youths is put at risk if the bill becomes legal. The review of the company of alcoholic and drug counselors says, on permission of the president: The science community (a vast community of social sciences and health sciences) has had theories that are both supported by research and experience that demonstrate insurmountablely that increasing supply leads to increased consumption. Also, increasing consumption leads to consequences that fall in an expensive way in the community, clinics, and prisons. No research can be found to reroute this. It says, according to the Court of Rights, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-huh. An appendix [the World Health Organization's report] also discusses the link between alcohol and domestic violence against women and children. - There's a negative connection, say more consumption, more domestic violence against women and children. You must ask yourself, " Are you mad? ' is this bill satisfied with the increase in consumption and increase in its resulting evil? Or will they stand and say that science has no support, that all of this is merely taken up, that all these studies are wrong, and hope for the best, that there will be no children, no families, no more violent violence, which otherwise would not have happened if this bill had not come? Other reputable organizations strongly warn against selling alcohol into grocery stores, including the Children's Institute, the Board of Education and Prevention, the Children's Institute for Children and Family Protection, and the 23 members of the Group on Prevention. A respectable president. Alcohol is no ordinary product. Alcohol causes addiction, which is a contributing factor in accidents, serious diseases, and assaults. A number of international studies confirm that selling alcohol at grocery stores leads to a significant increase in consumption and increase in public health problems. I am a follower of freedom, including freedom of shopping, and I want no more than others to see the State doing the work that private people can do better. In our society, however, there are many rules that limit individual freedom to protect the rights of third parties or to protect society from harm. Most of us agree on such limitations. We'll buckle up, we won't hit red light, and so on. Thus the risk of accidents and disability is reduced, which could become a burden to society. Cars could be much less expensive if we were not obliged to wear the seat belt, the air bag, and many other safety risks we would accept. We joyfully let this freedom overpower us, for the consequences of car accidents are clear to all. And now all of us can also see the consequences of increasing access to alcohol. This will lead to increased consumption of alcohol, resulting in increased chronic illnesses, increased incidence of accidents, increased violence against women and children. Is all this sacrifice so that merchants can increase their profits by several billion each year? Is this all a sacrifice so I can take a bonus beer or a Cronus/Hölsau wine in the basket when I go to the grocery store? I'll have to deal with each other, but I say, "No, I don't see a problem coming up at the ATSVR special shop when I want to buy wine, because the choice is brilliant, moderate, and good service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson for a very informative talk that we are reminded, that almost all members of the land that care about health and public health are opposed to this bill. I'm surprised if the Council isn't going to listen to these voices. It has now been observed during this discussion that alcohol consumption has been a significant success for the youngest generation. It is thanks to a very powerful predestination work. One of the bill's 1st couriers has even wanted to downplay it, but he believes and gives some grammatical evidence that this does not matter what the distribution rate is, that it can be made more freely than it is now, in view of the fact that we are achieving this success by preventive measures. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear some thoughts. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u94	A respectable president. Thank you for this good question from what? Senator. It is stated in the bill that hopes to offset the growth of access to large amounts, double or triple levels, can be used against an increase in alcohol consumption, e.g. Young people, by improving their education and prevention. It's a similar idea to say: well, we've been doing well by wearing a rope to reduce traffic, we're just going to cut off one end and tighten the other knot twice as hard. I'm not sure the sheep would stay inside fences with such tactics. All these methods need to be used. According to reports, one of the most effective measures is to limit access, and that is what we need to do. To maintain the success that has been achieved, we also need to be diligent in prevention and education. There's a lot of room for things to get worse, and we need to do both. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u95	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. In fact, I'm on my own that access should be comparable to that of the country, but this bioavailability and distributionism must not include aggressiveness. That's what I'm afraid of happening by going into the pathways announced on the bill. I agree with what the question says. Senator, we have to consider keeping these two at the same time, the rational distribution of alcohol, and the use of alcohol abuses, including alcohol abuse. These are two things that work in the same direction. I agree with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u96	A respectable president. Thank you for your speculations. I just wanted to introduce it through access and aggressive presentation. I think the bioavailability that matters so much is hidden in shelf meters. We know very well from market education that those who can get most shelf meters for their goods at the store sell more. As access to this species increases in the shelves, the more the product will be seized and put on demand. If we add five feet [6 km] of wine to the grocery store, we will sell more wine. This is the experience in all countries where this has been done, and the result will be what has been described here. No matter how much we put in prevention and introductions, the shelves will win in that race. Drinking alcohol in liters will increase with costful consequences for the entire community. That is what we need to ask ourselves: Is it what we're supposed to do at the General Assembly, making public health worse, and raising the health costs? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u97	A respectable president. I'd like to say that I think it's important to fix some things on this thing and, of course, maybe change or increase other priorities than simply your business freedom, but in the case of opposers of this bill, I'll notice it in a debate. Councilmen claim that they sound blue, and refer to a number of research studies that is good and blessed, that increasing access to total consumption - this I will believe for now - especially among youths, it is then said. I'd like to point out two things I consider facts and wonder if. A senator somehow disagrees with me that there are facts, that the availability has increased, has multiplied over the last 15 years in Iceland, and that juvenile consumption has been summed up. The overall consumption has certainly increased, including after the beer law. However, youths have been drawn together by drug abuse. Isn't that the case, Mr. Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u98	A respectable president. I can well believe that the case is that teenage consumption has been linked with increased education and limited access. The most scientific way to increase the consumption of adolescents, however, is to increase the bioavailability, just to increase it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u99	A respectable president. Then you have to ask, "Why don't you increase your teen consumption? " It's gone very much over the past 15 years, and for many reasons, including Prevention. Surely, there is also a complete approach in how to address such a matter, much larger than simply access. A respectable president. But I'm pointing out the facts. The bioavailability has been multiplied, and the consumption of alcohol and illegal drugs has been summed up. These are facts. It simply does not support the increase in alcohol availability, increasing the inevitable consumption of adolescents. It's just not what we see in Iceland today. This must be a more complicated question than that. That's what I'm talking about. When it comes to eating adult people, I feel less serious than when it comes to youths for the simple reason that I don't believe in money from the State or the medical system, it is a prerequisite to limit people's freedom to buy, for example, alcohol. I'm not on that line. But when it comes to juvenile consumption, I'm pointing to the facts. The infant consumption has been summed up. The bioavailability has been increased. That doesn't fit the theory. The senator or the investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u100	A respectable president. I'm not going to be cutting my mouth at what I'm talking about. A candidate on whether juvenile alcohol will increase with increasing bioavailability. All research shows that there will be an increase in everything else. The most effective way to increase the rate of teenage drinking is to increase the bioavailability. Then I thought there was an interesting point. A senator came in and said, "It doesn't matter if the consumption of older citizens or the general public was going to increase by a few gallons, it would just mean nothing to the rest of us who pay the taxes. " Is it not true, then, that you no longer use a seat belt and a safety pad to drive too fast, drive to red light, drive on the wrong side of the road? Doesn't it matter because it's just people's freedom to act unwisely? I'm talking about third party damage. I agree that people are free to go to a liquor store, to buy wine, and to drink to their detriment, their freedom, but there is always a human tragedy when people abuse wine. It is a human tragedy when they die years before they die because of too much wine. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt appreciation for the fine talk he gave. When that matter was addressed last year, he was very familiar with the reviews received. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator, who has been very careful about these comments, whether he has found positive comments about this bill, and then where it came most from. I soon went over them myself, but not as thorough as it was. A senator, who in itself came to a conclusion similar to his, i.e. that any person who allows himself to be public health or the affairs of children and adolescents would be aware of this bill's approval. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator whether he has noticed that someone has been very positive toward the bill and the party most.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u102	A respectable president. At one time, when the predecessor of this case was being discussed during the last assembly, many comments were received, including to the Economic and Business Committee, which gave a review of the case to the committee that was involved in its implementation. There were interesting reviews, including. from those who have interest in the interests of department stores. Clearly, many could benefit from millions of dollars and billions of profits, but interesting friendships were also involved in competition. Today, at a grocery store, three large chains are leaving 90% of the market. One chain stands outside, an ATVR that sells in their opinion food, something that belongs at the grocery store, and they would like to get bigger out of it and get it too. [[The president calls.]] There are obviously interests in it, but I don't remember seeing many other positive comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u103	V.E.G. President. I had a feeling that it was mostly those who are concerned with this matter that would be positive about it. Hv. A senator entered a very interesting point, of which 90% of all food sales in the country are at the hands of three parties. I've read in some evidence that men don't feel much better about changing what they call ◯monopoly◯ in English, private sales, to what's called a '-dandhopoly-solde', a singleseller. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator's opinion of how changing this sale from a private sale will affect and pass it to the less competitive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u104	A respectable president. Unfortunately, there is much to suggest that those traders who would receive these provisions are not bound by the maximum burden at which the ATSVR is 1,18% but will use the pressures most suitable for them and their peak profits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u105	Same...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u106	For them, of course, it would be best to take this well - oiled product, perhaps some amplitude, and have a low strain on it to sell as much as possible, but then have more fine wine with more strain, as we saw in the example of the white wine-like product sold at Haf Vacur with 80% stress than the application was 18% in ATVR. I don't think this will, unfortunately, have consequences that the selection will be reduced, the application will increase, but the overall sales of alcohol will increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u107	A respectable president. I just wanted to get a little more information on whether or not. A senator would be opposed to this bill because prices would rise and service would be impaired or if it was public health. He spoke a lot about public health and the consumption was going to increase, but then he began talking about the price raise because the little salesmen taking the sale would not accept the pressures of the ATVR. He also spoke of the quality of the wine camps and of the choice of choice, which means that they also have a good access, as if it were a big deal to sell. The World Health Organization says that rising prices rather than reducing bioavailability will reduce consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u108	A respectable president. I appreciate the opportunity to explain this to you a little bit more. It is clear that, for example, a food chain with a third - part share in the market that imports cargo into a container from a low - paying land could make a very good purchase of amps, say Cronus beer, or Bonus Bear, which would be sold in large quantities by moderate stress. Most people would pass through that crack of alcohol, possibly becoming no higher than it is today on this amplitude, possibly lower. However, the application of other special wines, sold in smaller amounts, would have to be more than 18%; this is quite clear. I don't know what it is. A senator knows a lot about retails or trades, but these are laws if you plan to maximise the cost of business management. We can see how it is with other products in the same camps, the same principle of this product.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u109	A respectable president. Then I'm gonna ask you what. A senator again for the offer. Will he, due to the tremendous anxiety he has on the public health of the people of the country, suggest that the ATVR will already reduce the number and size of its sales lots in the area of the capital, the highest and the longest open markets? I also know that the senator's concern about taking sugar too much, would he like to move a sugar store at the state store or the duty of the grocery store to reduce his shelf meters of sugar? Will he even suggest that the publication of the wine diet be limited from now on? This has the largest bioavailability of alcohol while drinking among youths is contracted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u110	A respectable president. That's a question I looked forward to and expected. This is the question where everything is turned upside down and asks if I am a spokesman to ban alcohol sales in the country or to reduce liquor sales, all to them. What I'm against is that we're going out of the ashes into the fire, and I'm giving reasons for that opinion. I do not advocate freedom, nor do I reduce the ability of people who have the age and freedom to buy wine. I say, let's not increase the helm centimeters in the grocery store. I'm not saying that I want to lie down that there's going to be a big change in the direction of reducing the number of stairs to the NTVR, not at all. You see, I'm a spokesman for freedom on the subject, and I think we've reached a good balance between premium and the limit to access. I don't think this bill is gonna make it any better. I think it's a step in the wrong direction, but that doesn't mean I'm a spokesman for the fact that we're creating some huge head of action. Not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u111	V.E.G. President. This discussion is not long gone by, but it is already becoming very clear. I've been wondering what it's like to come up with a bill where it's very difficult to find the evidence that recommends it, but the opposite arguments are very obvious. If this bill succeeds, it is likely that public health will be followed by the study of those who handle such material. It is likely to be a problem to consumers simply because the range of invitations, especially in the country, will decrease, it will reduce. Prices are likely to increase, increasing the cost of distribution. [[Scary.]] That's scary, that's what it's all about. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. Yeah, that's because I had countless last facts that men don't question... that the money of the state will be reduced. But perhaps we were getting some light on the explanation why this bill is taking place in the exchange of words. Councilmen of Þorsteinn, Sólmund's Sæmundsson, and Sigurjónsson, the son of Siglejon earlier. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone pointed that question to why. paritaprevir Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson, would there be any pattern in comments received by the council through the community bill? How'd the lines go down there? Could it be that they had something to do with interest? Then it turns out that those who do health and health care, Iceland's Medical Association, the Fég Nurses, the governor, the anti-drug organization, the youth group, are all opposed to the bill, but those who are loyal to the bill are sponsors for trade, the big shopping chains that would like to get this store into their nests. It's just a fact. Then you ask yourself, " Is it possible to run the interests of these people with the bill because it is against society's public health goals, as well as its citizens? ' There's only two left. They're interests, and they're politicians, and maybe a little political criticism. V.E.G. The U.S. secretary of finance is also the chairman of the Independence Party. He spoke on behalf of his party at a conference here in the fall and said, among other things, by permission of the president: ▪ Can I mention it here if we trust the people in the country to attend regular shops or not? To me, that's a very obvious thing. It is the wrong message from the council not to trust the people in order to buy alcohol at normal stores, that government employees should be needed to deliver such products over the counter. That's the wrong message. V.E.G. President. This makes me feel a little strange statements, and it's obvious when I finished a quote at the highest. Secretary of finance. This is a strange message to me about the difference between the public employees and the shoppers. No one's talking about that kind of difference. They are not different or different people. It operates under different circumstances and under different rules. Now we are discussing the distribution modalities we will have in the case of alcohol that everyone compares with, including those of the bill, that is not normal commercial products, it is not. And we're talking about it, making a political decision on how we're going to arrange this distribution. I'd like to call attention to some writing that has come, in fact. from various proselytists of the Independence Party, and I'd like to give a warning that we would necessarily put the same token between the omens of this political party and the rest of the group. I would like to quote from the former editors of the Morning Press and a very firm supporter of the Independence Party, Styrmir Gunnarsson, who wrote an article in the September 26 issue of Awake! There he speaks of the alcohol, distribution, and onTVR. The review of this article, with permission of the president, is as follows: ▪ Each person is free to comment on these topics as well as others. But when it comes to political policies, more voices need to be heard. That's right. I remember that I and I were. The 1st transferer of the bill, Vilhjálmur Árnason, participated in a large meeting in Valhalla last year. There were probably single independents, but there were a great many who approached me as much as they were at the moment. The bill official, Vilhjálmur Árnason, told me that they had a heartfelt agreement with me. And I've been talking to a lot of the probing officers of the Independence Party, party-to-group, who are completely in agreement. Therefore, I would like to encourage us not to slip into some platoon halls when we take our stand on this matter and take sides. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason has the word, and we'll talk it out of the public health and consumer tendencies. Hv. A senator did so, for example. when he said that he was worried that the ATSVR system was bad for shops in a small rural area and that this store should be moved into a public camp. But if the storekeeper doesn't want booze, wine, and beer into the camp, what then?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u112	Then it's the flower shop.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u113	Then it's just the flower shop, but if the flower shop doesn't want it, what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u114	Opportunities for more people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u115	Then there is an opportunity for others who say, all of this is to be totally dependent on the quirk of the store. That will be the result in the end. In other words, it's against public health reasons, it's against consumers' reasons. There is no difference in the fact that in small communities, much less than a minimum of 140 species in invitations at ATSVR stores will be selected even at the smallest sites. [[Up front.]] By the hand of taxpayers, it's called in. The liquor store and the tobacco trade yield money to the State, so it is wrong to talk about it in the company of taxpayers. It returns, and there are certain transfers from urban to rural areas in exactly the same way that we buy the gasoline at the same time in any country. That's subsidies, isn't it? Of course, with regard to very few places and stores. Of course. Is the senator making a recommendation against that? Does he see too much money removed from the urban area to the rural area? Is he beyond it? Why don't you discuss this on a small matter? Then I'd like to say something. Hv. One senator says that each individual is to take responsibility for himself, and he says that he made his own decision not to drink alcohol. Good, that's his decision. I have not made that decision, but together we should have one objective: To build a good society for all of the citizens of this country, for all of us, to create an environment that will produce the best in us and try to protect those who have some weakness, such as. in this field. They are the youths and the wise - even older ones. There are a lot of people who are very ill for alcohol. That's a fact, and those who do drugs have been trying to control it. And, of course, when you go to the store, do you not have to use common sense to answer the question, does it have any effect on having wine or this product always in front of your eyes, would it not be different from keeping it in special stores? Of course. I know it from my own experience. I lived in Denmark for two years. I felt that it affects me, and I think it affects all of us. Is it because I underestimated the free market in order to get wine into the nation? No, I have too much faith in him. That's why I'm afraid of him because he's gonna come on. He's more aggressive than the other form. I agree with what. A senator I find that I have spent too much money on advertising, and the store has been fully involved in my taste, and I have promoted protests about it. The second, however, to activate this into the market man and the motivations there will, of course, increase the consumption. I will discuss this further in my second speech. Of course, we are to take responsibility for ourselves and for our community, our children, and all of us, and they are to create an environment that is practical and good for those who have this weakness toward alcohol, although others may have to put themselves above the corner to buy Johnnie Walker or what it is now. There is no terrible sacrifice, if I had thought. But the big business chains press, and unfortunately, it will be no more than the Independence Party would call them because we're talking about interests. This is a conflict of interest. This is the struggle of those who fight in the interests of human health, and with medical organizations, including nurses, with the surgeon general, with the World Health Organization, with the youth - care organization of this country, and with those who use drugs for their own good. Is that what we're doing, or are we wearing the shopping chain that, of course, insists on getting it into its shelves? Is that where we are? No. I'm not there. And I'm sad if the council is going to follow this course right now. V.E.G. President. I've asked for the highest. This discussion will be attended by a health minister. I wanted to start with that, if he were in the hall, to refer to a statement found on the board's information website set up on January 24, 2014, and to go contrary to the goals offered on this bill. And already the highest. As a professional minister, I would like to read up his own words and ask if he would recognize himself and would identify himself and declare the government's policy as he has presented them, or if he is going to hear the big shop chain, whatever their names are. I reiterate that I find it absurd to continue this discussion without the Minister who conducts this party so little as to be asked to come to the chamber to have a place to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He will not hold back his cause in this saying that is good. I'd like to ask him about the money, if he doesn't think it's important. When I present taxpayers, I am pointing out that there are other ways to go that can reach the same objective for less money, which we can use in another way. Does he not feel that it is important to make the best use of the money in order to promote greater success in public health and especially in alcohol abuse?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u117	V.E.G. President. I think we agree perfectly, me and the other. A senator, the importance of spending more money on preemptive matters. This has proved to be effective, and it has, for example, been with regard to the youngest age class. There is no doubt, so it is of utmost importance and should be attributed to the great work being done in that area. What I'm stressing is that with that changed arrangement as a matter of course. A senator proposes a government fund of billions of dollars, including the sum. could be used for such a case. Later, when you look into the health system and listen to what the doctors say about cirrhosis and the cost of illness associated with excessive alcohol consumption, it is natural. [[The president calls.]] The fact is, the figures show that alcohol consumption has been increasing, did so considerably with the appearance of beer, and will continue to increase, as well. A senator has acknowledged his report. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u118	A respectable president. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator's argument is that the benefits of ATSVR come from a little selling alcohol rather than from a total tobacco trade. All data show that the improvement in ATSVR will be greater if they lose the obligation to be the only small user of alcohol. I need to know what to do. A senator may claim that we are making a profit. If we were to release the benefits of an ATSVR, where else would he want to take that money from the government fund? Third, I would like to ask him if it has not been shown that while alcohol consumption is increasing or increased by 1,000 percent, as I have noted, it is possible to achieve tremendous success in reducing youths.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u119	V.E.G. President. All studies demonstrate that the consumption and distribution rate are maintained. Research shows that alcohol consumption is increased if the method of distribution is aggressive and alcohol is taken to the stores, as indicated above, if there is a rise in the number of shelf meters in the area where they have wine before the eyes. It's all in the eye. I don't quite understand how the ETSVR will increase the benefits of ATSVR, I don't quite understand. Perhaps there will be something to be educated, if this discussion is prolonged, where else to take money. Let us first take money there, where they return to their tax panels, and use it to some extent to prevent drug abuse and then to the health system that is dealing with the consequences of alcohol abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u120	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for an extremely interesting speech. I'd like to ask him about the idea that there is a special freedom in having access to wine in state - driven liquor camps, who have qualified and good staff who know the product well and do not put as much on the product as do the food chain that attends that event in Iceland. The price is set in shape, and even in many parts of the world, your choice of choice is the best you have seen at the liquor stores you have been living in. Where is the freedom to do so? In this case, there would be a great deal of greater freedom in their policy in the country, but where is freedom?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u121	V.E.G. President. Freedom is not part of the present arrangement. Freedom involves that because of political pressure and fear of looking to reason, not following things that are considered to be a progressive attitude, people are afraid to do what is reasonable and good for consumers, Kingdom boxes, and public health. It's freedom to follow political criticism. Then people think that they represent progress in this way. It is a retrospective view, a conservative, repetitive view. In all parts of Europe and the west of the ocean, people look to other factors to help reduce the flow of alcohol - related diseases and ills. That's when they're looking at it. World Health Organization and the nations that hear under its wings envy us for the arrangement that humans are now striving to slaughter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u122	A respectable president. One thing that caught my attention when the bill first came up was the comment and concern of those who bring alcohol from many parts of the world, from the most unlikely countries, to the small businessmen who are in the pursuit of interesting wine. Then there was the concern of smaller beer manufacturers that have arisen here. Its innovation has been successful in Iceland. It has become industrialized in the country to create a earth. These are very interesting beer species in the best quality of Icelandic water, and I like this product very much. The State Department has shown them fairness because she has to exercise this low standard of mildness in a particular way and with a certain degree of mildness, but the local merchants are concerned that they will get a much harder business, and many of them are afraid that if this change happens, it will all go away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u123	V.E.G. President. I've heard those views too from this study. The fact is, when we take sides in this matter, we need to weigh the pros and cons. In these, there are all kinds of dimensions and nows, of course. I'm setting up with the health authorities and with the consumer. The fact is, those who want to approach certain kinds of wine, e.g. rare kinds of wine, obtained in the state. They will have their wishes carried out in the Kingdom. But I don't know if they're going to get them at Habitat, Zeal, Bonus, or whatever it's called, in these big chains, I'm not sure. It will only do what sells the most, and it may be a good selection for many consumers, much less where a few are, but for consumers, it would not benefit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u124	A respectable president. Now I know the point of it. I've heard them very often, and we've talked about it here many times. Of course, he knows me very well, but I'm interested in other aspects of the situation, but merely public health and freedom, and the like, and that's part of my community's own decision. It is stated in the bill that the concept is that the rural communities are allowed to make their own decisions, and they can put their own restrictions on opening time, which should be between nine and eight during the day. I've wondered why it is. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, whom I know is against the bill and hence this particular monasteries, how he sees the idea that rural society has more room to decide how these matters are in general. You see, I don't see why there need to be a consistent policy across the country. I know why. A senator is no special fan of the United States, but one is good for them, where the states can compete in freedom, can compete for the right solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u125	V.E.G. President. I believe in this matter of health, that the same arrangement should be established throughout the whole country. There are people from all over the country who live in the medical department at the National Hospital. We are dealing with our society's problems, and we are trying to handle these matters in a reasonable and upbuilding way for our whole community wherever we live in the country. So I think that we should try to establish rules that are generally beneficial for society and are socially responsible. We are to listen to the viewpoints of the public health organization, the medical community, the nurses, the childhood community. We are to listen to these people who, regardless of their home in the country, appear together. So in this respect, I believe we should have the same arrangement everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u126	A respectable president. This is interesting to me because of course, surgeons and health professionals are in favor of promoting public health. But there are more things in life than people. That's the point. It's not all about human health. It is not all about living as long and as well as possible. Human society doesn't work that way. I'll just say it for myself, and I think more in here I'd like a beer a lot more at night than to go to see a doctor, that's because there's more to life. What matters also is that people have choices, and if people can choose different places where there are rules that would suit them better, I would have thought that the rise of freedom, and the growth of democracy, I say, would be positive. And, of course, there are public health reasons in this matter, I will not withdraw it, but I would like this matter to be approached in a slightly different way than certainly in terms of human health. But I don't see any basis for increasing my freedom and handling the many matters that concern human health. Why should we not allow communities or some places in the country or in Reykjavík to decide more for ourselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u127	V.E.G. President. First and foremost, I want us to be free to reach a conclusion that makes sense to our community, and we are so independent of the Creeds and not afraid to say we do so. In my mind, people must be healthy, they feel good, their families don't have bad things like alcohol, their children and everyone coming to them, to be top priority to us at the General Assembly, and to set up laws and rules for society. Of course, we try to keep them in a healthy environment that contributes to good health and well - being in society, and we try to limit the bad effects of alcohol, tobacco, and so forth. I wouldn't talk so lightly about diseases caused by this. I don't think they're laughing in the hospitals that don't have cirrhosis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u128	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to ask him about one point in the paper with the bill because here was a question to ask. A senator as to whether he could defend his view that there was more benefit in selling alcohol on ATVR than in selling tobacco. I'm not sure how to figure it out, because it's generally expressed in the report. But it says, with permission from the President: ▪ You may also ask the fundamental question: Is it normal for the State to earn this money from taxpayers? In view of the fact that private business is ever more practical than public business, the question becomes particularly perplexing. Now we've got a what? A senator of extensive experience with this as the former head of the Union staff of state and towns. I would like his opinion on the claim that private business is as practical as public business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u129	V.E.G. President. I think it's a fairy tale. Asks are asked whether it is normal for a state to gain profit and profit rather than private persons, to have doubts about such things, and, of course, to do so is perfectly natural. Of course. Because market laws should be applied in certain areas and far within the community, then there are other factors, especially those who submit to some form of monopoly, where this is not appropriate. Of course not! Then private business is very damaging, it can be very damaging because society does not have benefits that may be involved in some kind of competition that can sometimes be good, but in the course of large blocks such as this. they have failed to return the benefits to society and to consumers. [[The president calls.]] That's what they know. A senator may be the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I heard that he put great importance on human health in his speech. That is very comfortable with what I have been wondering about myself. I wanted to bring something more into the conclusion of the World Health Organization. It has been quoted here by some prime speaker, e.g. and it is a report by the World Health Organization that I have been looking at that it literally recommends that other European countries take up the commercial structure of the country and Sweden, Norway, Finland. I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he is in the right opinion of the World Health Organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u131	V.E.G. President. First of all, I think this is the right view. Secondly, this is the World Health Organization's opinion, which is unconvincing. I'd like to close these answers here, I'd like to come back to a talk on the subject and many times, to direct a challenge to the media in Iceland to publish what has come from the governor on these matters. For example, on July 17, I refer to what was applied to the office of Jehovah's Witnesses, to publish and publish references to the World Health Organization, so that we can get it into the discussion that needs to be very common in the community, and where members of the Parliament will be given an answer for their stand here at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u132	A respectable president. I don't think I had any part in this conversation the last time the case was delivered. I've felt that I had an embarrassing opinion on this matter, which is very controversial, as we hear here in the Senate Hall. I don't think if this bill goes through, it won't be death or demon, but I don't see that there's some big problem with the system as it is today. I can admit, though, that there is a big question mark in the state of this service, for it is certainly a service. I also feel a little special about being in the position of the 63 and 63 of us to take a stand on the case on behalf of the entire nation, in a case that is more or less strongly understood by all, and many are very strong. I hardly experience that I have the authority of my voters to take this stand. I was never asked out in a campaign. This never really came up, so my voters don't know where I'm in this, and I don't really know what their position is. Because we are often talking about giving more power to the nation and more about the decision - making process, I feel that this is an example of what we should ask the people. It's a big step if the sale of alcohol gets free and we start putting alcohol in stores. Would the nation want this, or should 63 members of the council take sides? I'll throw it out, I'll go through 1st. Something to think out loud. Ever since this case came out, I've been seeing other people, my friends, very repeated questions about what they think of this matter, just to hear it. I ask my friends, who are of all categories, what they think, and I generally don't feel that this is a factor for them. A lot of people ask me if we need something to change. Still, it is often good to ask, " Why are things the way they are? ' I think we should be open to the fact that things can be done differently, and that's why I'm not going to cancel this case. It's a question of whether the State should run liquor stores. I can see some stage shots, including. that others may be allowed to sell alcohol, and that will be done in special stores and under strict rules. There are examples of this in other lands. Then we're not talking about going to the grocery store. Rather, it's that someone who's interested in selling wine can open a store and that the conditions will be set, there must be no more than that, and so many wine camps; somehow it needs to be distributed evenly, though it can be complicated. This, of course, raises the question of serving in the country. That's an urgent question. I think it's totally possible. Some may say: But we are going to be of the profit or profit that the ATSVR returns, which is about 1.5 billion, why not take it in the government box? I don't buy them all because there are other ways to get them money from consumers. For example, the value tax on alcohol may be increased, for if alcohol has become so expensive, the stores will have to reduce the use of alcohol if alcohol costs and the value tax on alcohol are becoming substantial. I think that ATVR achieves 1.5 billion that it cannot return to the State for profit does not justify the use of alcohol sales. There are many ways to get them money, so you can ask, as has been here: Is it because of tobacco or alcohol? Indeed, there are consumers who pay the amount that flows back into the Kingdom box, so there are ways to do that. Then there is an influence on human health, and it cannot be overlooked by reviews from the governor, the Medical Association, the Society of Nurses, the Children's Advisor, and others. Of course, we have to read the reviews and take them seriously. We know that the bioavailability of alcohol will be increased. The question is, Do youths drink more heavily because they have had good results when it comes to reducing teen drinking, or do those who have one beer a week start drinking two nonserious beer? We don't know exactly how the consumption would increase, but I think we can assume that it will increase. I wonder, and am again thinking aloud, to get some sort of nation's will in this matter. If we decide to take this step, and I think it's a big step to put alcohol in stores, would it be possible to take it in my own steps? We might say: Let's start putting beer in certain wards and dokumenters very well how it works. Let's try something that's not bigger than the fact that we can take the step back if we see that beer consumption is tripled, because that's not necessarily what we want. Or if we see that juvenile drinking, the change goes up and down the streets. I sometimes feel like we're a little scared to try something because then we can never go back. This reminds me of our speech in a short future about the clock, where we've said, "Let's go, change the clock." Consider the effect on human health and danger if it is found that golf can be practiced in the afternoon because it is so dark. I wonder if I'm going through this or if I'm crazy, I can't figure it out. I feel like we're deciding that if we do like all other countries and sell alcohol in stores, the consequences will be disastrous. We know nothing about this, and it may well be that we can be trusted to do so. But I would like to have a much clearer national willingness, and I would like to see this done in much more careful steps, and I would have liked to see that along with this bill, there would have been a powerful drinking policy. Then I mean alcoholism, which aims to remind us of drinking alcohol. I think we agreed that alcohol consumption is a problem. Of course, the vast majority of people who drink alcohol are moderate, but I often find that there is a high degree of coercion and perhaps higher than when we have some other behavior that is very negative to the individual and to others. I often feel that we are tiptoe about problems related to alcohol, and I think we should do so much better. People talk about moderate consumption, but I often don't agree with moderate consumption. What is moderate drinking? I think it's another discussion, but it's just as important, how we reduce alcohol consumption. I think that's what we need in Iceland. I'm gonna be open to this case. I feel like if the case went into votes right now, I'd sit by. I don't feel like I can support it, but I'm not crazyly against it either. I think it's a good idea to do this in my steps and to say, " It's been five years since beer shops, and the conclusion is that beer consumption has only increased slightly, teenage drinking hasn't increased, it's been reduced. If we see such conclusions, we may be able to take the next steps, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and speculations presented there. The Senator started by placing a big question mark on the fact that the state cares for alcohol distribution, it's just us, our community, and we do it especially for public good. I don't put a question mark on it simply because I see the benefits of it from a public health point of view, from the point of view of consumers, from the taxpayer, but I put a question mark on the fact that the big business chains fill their shelves with this product. But I'd like to ask why. A candidate from the consumer perspective: If the result is that ATSVR, as the bill suggests, the selection will be reduced and the price will be increased, it will not matter. A senator speaking as the former spokesman for consumer organizations? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u134	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. What I would be afraid of is that the service, especially in the country, would get worse because it must only be acknowledged that the NTVR has performed a very good service in the country. Based on the reality we know, I think there might be a risk that the selection would decrease and the service would get worse. I don't think that might be necessary at the largest positions, e.g. Akureyri, and I don't think in Reykjavík it might have to worry, but I think service in the country would be worse. Today, you can even order certain kinds of wine, and they are here the next day. I'm not necessarily sure that the only store in small places could guarantee such a service. But let us also be aware of the cost of this service. We're such as running ATVR, it's not as if that business is free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u135	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is free of charge because the business depends on itself. In the 1980's, if men have wanted to mock those who are considered out - of - law, they often refer to the conversation about beer in their time, in the 1980's, and the warning that beer would increase the amount of alcohol, that would be completely absurd. But that has happened. I'm going to quote an article by Dr. Gunnar Alexander Ólafsson, a health - care expert from the September 17, issue of News magazine. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The year before, 1988, each Icelander (18 years of age and older) was consumed with alcohol of 4.53 litres. In 2007 the consumption of alcohol reached a peak of 7.53 l per person. Last year, alcohol consumption was 7.18 l per Iceland. The volume of distribution and the selection in this respect when beer comes into existence affects consumption and has increased it. [[The president calls.]] It's just a fact. I'd like to ask you at last what. A member of Parliament: Is this a problem today? [[The president calls.]] Is this some real problem that needs to be solved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u136	A respectable president. No, as I said in my speech, I don't think this is a special problem, maybe because I drink about three pints a month, and this doesn't bother me at all. But I can't overlook the fact that these demands and voices exist. So I'm sure I'll take a look at it. This may not necessarily involve me and my family. This is a requirement, and earlier I stressed that I would want to get a little more sense of what the nation feels. I've only seen one poll that reminds me that the newspaper of the press did, where the nation was rather opposed. I'd just like to refer it to a national law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit for his material and good speech She'd come up with a lot of good reasoning, like that we were often afraid to try it. This is exactly what the bill is based on, it's not being sacrificed, it's a year-by-year review, and ATVR can run its stores. I'd like to ask you something about the service as the former consumer team member. Since its transfer from the state, has the service ever gotten worse? How does she feel about the services of the rural communities and settlements that do not have a liquor store on the government's desk, such as the rest of the nucleus? There are 74 rural areas in the country and only 49 drinking stores, of which 12 are in the capital area. Where is equality and the level of service in this matter of consumers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u138	A respectable president. It is also true. A senator says there are no drinking stores at all. In some places, the opening time is very short. In this regard, most rural communities do not necessarily have very good services. I actually find it a little difficult to decide whether it will be better or worse for consumers. There is evidence to support this and the contrary. As much as any. That's why I'm a little tempted, if these changes happen, to do so in some short step. I understand the store's calling for this. I think she also sees that selling white wine, red wine, and other such things makes more grapes, cheeses, biscuits, and stuff like that. The wave will surely increase. I don't think that's the only reason I'm listening to the arguments of store owners in this case. I know they may be primarily thinking about themselves on this matter, but not necessarily consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u139	A respectable president. True, it was not the most positive review that came from a store and service last time; hopefully it will be better now. If so, I'd like to come into this with a financial committee, which is why. A senator pointed out just a few minutes ago. We do not always have to be attached to the profits, the income can be obtained in many ways. What's the situation in the budget now? It is not always easy to find funds for these matters, so perhaps we should come over a bit to help obtain more money from the store. Is it not a financial committee to fight more urgent than to support the service level of a certain part of the country's society? For democracy only. Hv. A senator has spoken about setting this up in national regulations. There may be a number of other issues to go before that. Is there anything that we can look forward to extending freedom to our communities, making them more decisions so that we make compromises in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u140	I think there's a very good point next to it. A senator says that exactly the community itself is more important. I can totally agree with that. For what has been talked about here, i.e. the interest yields in TVR, of course, it is very easy for someone who is patented on a very popular product to live up to and below the business. It says it's natural. I'm sure that the eviction of THVR must be quite high. She doesn't even have to be very high because there are no competitors and they all buy alcohol there. If they want to get that money, they simply raise the value tax or the alcohol charge and really torture it to reduce the value. It's just that way. We can get that money from consumers by just 100 ways. We don't have to have a government company to do that. At least that's my conviction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u141	A respectable president. Hv. The senator is first in this discussion to mention an idea that came up for the last assembly as well, that the case would be paid nationally. Now I think it's an interesting idea. In fact, I feel that such requests should come to the initiative of the people, whether by telethon or by any means. I don't think it's a good idea for those in charge to decide what goes on national terms and what is not because it's obvious that politicians do it when they realize that they agree with them, at least they have a tendency to do so, so they can be taken advantage of very easily. However, the problem went wrong. A delegate of the second only answers to other possible democracies, which is an increasing responsibility and freedom of a fellow soldier or of any status in the country to decide these matters. I wondered: " What is it? What real reason is there for a common policy for the whole country when it comes to painting?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u142	I hadn't thought of it until here and now, so I can't really answer that. There is no doubt evidence and against the fact that rural society has greater self - determination in this regard. We could end up with one local society where alcohol would flow and others might be more committed. I don't know how it would end. I think there's a lot more to consider in this matter. I think it's fine that we take this discussion, whatever it is that's going to be exactly. I'm a little bit there, not to be really scared of it, even if we just move in some other direction, even if we were to put down the ATSVR and let privates run the wine shops. They would clearly have some way of organizing where these stores should be located. Of course, it would have to be some national law about when they could be open and out of the streets, who might be paid, who would come and all that. There are a lot of things in this case, as I said. [[The president calls.]] I'm coming up here to 1st. without thinking it through, this is not the subject I find most exciting in this council winter, as it is said. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u143	A respectable president. I must admit that I find this matter exciting, and I was looking forward to discussing it here today, especially from the past council experience. This case is special in that people don't go to much of a party position, people just have their own opinions. There doesn't seem to be any party discipline that I love. I think it's a good example. Similarly, many people have strong opinions about this class, so there is conflicting with the other evidence that it doesn't matter, which I don't feel quite right. I think it matters. I think it's interesting. There are different basic reasons, e.g. Liberation and democracy, both important matters - ◯ Both of them, I underline. Hv. A senator came only at the end of his reply to the opening time. The only argument I've heard against the very fact that my rural society has made this decision itself is that we share our taxes for public health, i.e. to the health system. I wonder what. Similarly, a senator feels that he or she knows someone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u144	I can't quite answer that, but I still want to say the word. A senator says this is an interesting subject. That's exactly the opposite, and people have strong opinions, so I find it so exciting to try to get the national will in some way, even though it was not necessarily done in a national fee but we took it into account. This is interesting. It's good to go. A senator finds the matter exciting, but I will soon present a case on harmful consumer products and start to get excited about games.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u145	Mr. President. Hv. In his talk, a senator said that perhaps we should try to put beer in certain departments at the grocery store, and then we could evaluate the outcome. For example, there are fine studies in Sweden that measured the effect of stopping the sale of medium - strong beer at the grocery store in 1977, Sweden. The result was that I would not recommend such an experiment. An individual's consumption of alcohol was found to be 8% less than two years after the risk of selling medium - strength beer at a grocery store in Sweden. Alcohol - induced death and illness were considerably reduced, especially among young people, and the incidence of alcohol - related injury was much higher when medium - strong beer was sold at grocery stores and the incidence of cirrhosis was particularly high over the period for example. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she feels that we can learn from these results from Swía's research, whether we need to experiment with ourselves here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u146	A respectable president. I will not personally enter private and personal affairs asking us to sell beer at shops, but if there's any way I can be, I don't talk about if there was more to the council right now for the case we're discussing, I'd be inclined to try to get some landing that wasn't as dramatic or would be less a step. Of course, we should look to studies that have been conducted abroad. So in some places, beer is sold in stores that weigh less than the beer we drink. I don't know, often it's just a cool difference whether we can compare ourselves completely with other nations in this regard. I'm not necessarily talking about it or making a statement that will be done, but I would feel that it's still a better step than what we're discussing here, which is actually putting alcohol in the grocery store.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u147	Mr. President. Hv. There are a number of research studies on the effects of alcohol and on the effects of various subjects. Among other things, there is an American study in 2013 that deals with the link between alcohol and economic growth in the United States. Data to evaluate this finding are reviewed in 1971-2007. An increase in alcohol consumption associated with a decrease in economic growth and a decrease in alcohol consumption is shown to be associated with an increase in economic growth. In fact, an increase in alcohol taxation is found to increase economic growth. So I want to ask you why. A senator would see whether it would be a reason for fighting the bill, even though it would be just a matter of interest that is so important to us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u148	A respectable president. It may well be that I will change my mind on this case, and often so, but I'm at least, as the situation is now, not following, although I may say I may not necessarily intend to be on the red button. We agree that alcohol consumption has serious consequences. That's why it's so important to step gently to the earth. I feel that we have a head to deal with alcohol problems much harder. This week we were discussing drunk driving and driving repairs. Alcohol abuse has many benefits, but it is also a very negative influence in many places. There is something we also need to talk about, and no shyness in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u149	V.E.G. President. We here discuss a bill to correct a law on drinking and tobacco trade. I want to start my speech by saying that I've formed an opinion on this bill, that I did when it was delivered last year, and that's not what I think. I'm totally against the bill, and for one thing, I'm very interested in the prevention work that has been done in recent years and the results we've achieved in the preemptive issues. And I'm also worried about the consumer public health and viewpoints, including in smaller parts of the country where the ITVR camp is working and offering substantial selection. I believe that those living in the more scattered areas of the country will not have access to these products as before and that will be less equal among the inhabitants of the land. I was sitting down. The General and Education Committee last year, when there was a review of a bill. By permission of the highest power. I'd like to go through the reviews given to the Committee and discuss them with the points presented in the bill. The child's rule sent a review, pointing out that increasing access to alcohol will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption, likely to adversely affect children's lives, not only children who are affected by parental alcohol consumption or other sources, but also children and young people who are tempted to drink alcohol because of the easier bioavailability. That's the big point I'm worried about. I'm concerned about increased bioavailability, and I'm looking at foreign studies that show us many of the ways in which alcohol increases alcohol consumption. We've done a great job, we've worked hard for the past few years, and it makes clear that they think the results have been put at risk if the bill becomes legal. Reports from the surgeon general's office refer to international studies suggesting that the removal of private alcohol will lead to an increase in total consumption. Furthermore, according to one reference work, research shows that the concomitant use of alcohol increases the social cost of alcohol - related problems. The report published by the World Health Organization (WHO) points out, among other things, what it says. Here we come to a little bit of the point I'm looking for, too, because the followers of the bill have spoken a lot of talk about some practicality through the state funds by reducing the cost of government liquor and tobacco stores. But if we look at the tests that have been carried out and are cited, we will find that we do so. In these reviews, I believe that while we may be able to achieve some practical approach to the camp, the result would be an increase in social costs, only in other areas of the health system. This is one of the data from the surgeon general. In studies conducted by surgeons, alcohol can cause physical, mental, and social harm as a result of substance - induced and drug - induced toxicity. The key explanation for the social damage caused by alcohol is the abuse of alcohol, including violence, traffic accidents, and other accidents caused by alcohol abuse. If we grab a little down into the bill, it says that today, the U.S.A.R. 49 are located around the country, but the Copenhagens, the Hagrosstans, and what they all call it all are 114, as mentioned in the bill, so that there would be a slightly better increase in sales. The bill points out in the chapter on the effect on consumption that increasing sales will not be likely to have an effect on the increase in alcohol consumption. This is what one pauses because of the influence these issues have on human health and prevention. We are talking about alcohol, which is not ordinary consumer products, and we must always keep that in mind when we discuss these matters and reflect on them. According to the surgeon general's study, alcohol is responsible for 5.9% of world deaths. The proportion is highest in Europe or 13.3% because alcohol consumption is the highest and in the same way attributed to disease and accident. This shows that there is a direct link between us. According to the surgeon general's reports, there is a strong link between excessive drinking and various forms of violence. These include domestic violence, neglect, rape, and violence among young people. Because I'm one of those guys. I would like to review only the review of the Allied well - being committee. The General and Education Committee, when the bill was there for the release of the last council. It's a review of why. By permission of the President's Department of Health for the General Assembly, the following is: According to the World Health Organization, drinking alcohol is the third leading hazard to mankind's health. Alcohol causes cirrhosis and various types of gastrointestinal cancer from the oral cavity to the rectum. This increases the incidence of breast cancer in women. In view of the spiritual and physical consequences of alcohol abuse and accidents, the health effects of alcohol are also widespread. The World Health Organization sent a letter to the surgeon general for the contributions of the bill and urged that the Icelanders hold to their policy of monologue, as this reduces consumption. It is noted that alcohol consumption in Iceland is less than average in Europe and that the drinking of young people has been greatly effective. There I'd like to stop for a moment because I just want to say it here in my speech that before I sat at the General Assembly, I did a lot of work in the youth business. I worked as a basic school teacher, and in those jobs, you automatically participate in a lot of preemptive activities, I have been in the domestic and school national parts, you know, caring for preemptive matters, and, of course, as a parent, I have also been involved in some parents'sales. We have achieved tremendous success. The bill says that a higher percentage of reserves will go to the reserve reserve, which is also stated on page 6. 5, with the permission of the President: a public health fund shall give particular attention to preemptive work in the field of alcohol prevention for the next two years after the execution of a law on the alteration of liquor and tobacco commerce law.... - For two years. But what happens after that? That's what you're wondering. Data from the Swedish Public Health Institute. The World Health Committee also quotes the Agency's 2008 Swedish and international specialists in alcohol research to study its effect on Swedish society if the State Department of Alcohol Retailing and Selling Alcohol was permitted in grocery stores. The results were striking. Alcohol traffic sales would increase by 37.4% and lead to higher death, increased violence, increased rates of alcoholic driving, and an enormous increase in days of illness. Students in the University of Bifröst conducted a last winter study and also held an open meeting if I recall correctly and came before. The General and Education Committee, when the bill was in the conniving treatment of the Committee. According to one study, the same effect would be on the country, and the Swedish Public Health Organization found out. In this discussion, it has often been said that we should not always be looking abroad and what has been happening there, but here we have an Icelandic study at a university in this country that shows that increasing access to alcohol results in increased consumption, leading to many social problems. Time flies so fast. You think you always have an endless period of time, but I have to mention only the alcohol policy of the government. The government that now operates, the government of the Independence Party and the forward party, set a policy on alcohol and alcohol control until 2020, and it was adopted in December 2013, about six months after election. One of the main suggestions is to limit access to alcohol and other medications. I just can't understand how the bill we're talking about here on the same page because more of the members of the Parliament - we can just say that this is the priority of the lndependence Party and it's the health minister who's one of the causes. People of the Independence Party who make this suggestion in the drinking program along with the whole government. I can't understand how this works, but maybe somebody needs to explain it to me. One of the main suggestions for policy management is to limit the availability of alcohol and other medicines, which should be carried out in a controlled way in terms of the commercial drinking system. This policy was adopted by the government of the advance and the Independence Party, as I told you earlier. The government also puts special emphasis on the growth of human health and provides prime minister with a special prime committee on public health matters. There's a lot of good work to do. I've certainly seen it. In connection with that committee, it also works. A specific health - care programme manager stressing the health benefits of a community. I seem to be able to cover one more point, but it's from the agency of children I'm going to cut down on, by permission of the president. Children's manager fears that selling alcohol at grocery stores will make it easier for children and young people to access alcohol. Of course, now we all go, and all of you who listen often at the grocery store and at least in my hometown or in the grocery store that I usually shop nears are more of the ones who often give up my former students who are either in senior high school or in first grade high school. According to the bill, alcohol is not allowed at the age of 18. You may see it often, it may be someone who before you shop for tobacco, and the children are running all over trying to find someone who has the age to give up the person or put the pack of cigarettes through the scanner. I don't quite understand how this is going to go together. Children under 18 may be dealt with, but if you are going to buy alcohol, you have to be 20 years old. Why is that hole between us? Why is it not necessary to have a drinking age when you can sell alcohol? This also needs to be explained to me. Children's agent says in his review, by permission of the president: It is at risk that the increased level of alcohol activity will promote a positive attitude toward alcohol and encourage an increase in consumption among youths. This cannot be considered in line with the interests of young people, for alcohol adversely affects their physical and mental development. Many studies have shown that the younger people are when they start drinking alcoholic beverages, the more likely they are to develop a drinking problem later in life. Alcohol is the most widely used drug in this country, but in recent years alcohol consumption has greatly reduced among youths, including the powerful preemptive work, to which I entered earlier in my speech - ◯ and limited access to alcohol and the conservativeism in this country. I have a lot left of my speech, but I think I may even need to give a second talk later on in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u150	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech as well as the team members of the General and Education Committee when the bill was last discussed. I'd like to ask her about access, if the nation's culture can have a little effect on it, and if the dangerous availability increases are not constantly happening where free alcohol is offered at all schools at older levels, at parties and in celebrations, in companies, and in such things. I always feel like there's an increase in the offer of free alcohol. Then, in Denmark, whether they could achieve considerable success there if they remembered the decision to stop offering beer, e.g. On class nights in the 10th grade, and so on, if the parents or school made a decision, would that not be the case? Finally, I ask why. A senator feels about the success of the wine camp, how it compares with Icelandic public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u151	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's inquiry. I didn't quite get the last part, but what? A senator just asks me again afterwards. Hv. A senator asks if the nation's culture has something to say about these factors. I can't answer that, but at least I think there's good reason to look at the way things have gone abroad, and I think we're not different. So I refer to the studies referred to by the Children's Council, by the Children's Agent, by the surgeon of the U.S.A., and by the World Health Organization. When it comes to free access to parties and other events, it will probably affect our young people and others, but I don't think that we should increase the bioavailability any further. I don't think we should go from the ashes to the fire in that matter. Rather, we should look to what has been successful and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u152	A respectable president. I'll repeat the question and have it clearer. Hv. A senator spoke before about the government's public health policies. How does it feel? A member of the body compares with the development of stores of wine with the increase in shopping, heavy advertising, increased service, and so forth? It is the purpose of the law to prevent access, but since then the store has grown considerably and their performance has increased. Then there's the other. A senator speaks a lot about research. Whether or not. A senator of foreign research or Icelandic facts goes further? During the increase in wine stores, wine stores, and sales stores, the consumption of youths has been reduced. This is an Icelandic fact that then opposes foreign studies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u153	V.E.G. President. In terms of public health, policy, and all, the government's alcohol and tobacco trade stands solely on social responsibility and policy of social responsibility and speaks a lot about prevention, etc. This is a lot to talk about in human education and teaching in the things I've heard about. Of course, it has a little twin in it because of the product she is selling, but at any rate they try to be very early in it, and they are very well - known for it and have been accepted for how long they will be on social responsibility. I remember the 49 wine camp, before 39 C.E., but according to this bill, the sale sites will be at least 110 30-120. I believe that good results have been obtained because of the powerful parental work and prevention work that has been done in many places.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u154	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Eagledotir for the speech. I've told you before, there's a bit harsh about the General Assembly when you can only have a conversation with one man. A senator at once. Sometimes it would be nice to include others in that discussion. This was clearly indicated in a talk given at the beginning. A member of the council earlier that she has studied the reviews and information presented during the last council. That's why I'd like to ask. A member of Parliament whether there is any reason why it is not possible to apply all the research that is presented, for example, in a summary from a surgeon to other Western European nations, even other northern nations, if there is any reason why we should not be able to apply it to our community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u155	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I studied the reviews on the subject. I was sitting down. A top-of-the-art Board of Education when there was a hearing for the last council. With the transfer of research, I believe that Iceland and I are no different from other countries, despite our land's geographic conditions. I believe that we can transfer the research that has been done abroad in us, as shown by the World Health Committee on the Research of the Swedish Institute in 2008, and the university students at Bifrost in their studies showed that the results were the same as those in Sweden.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u156	Mr. President. I think it's the point that there is an enormous amount of good information to be made use of. There is one other factor. In his speech, a senator quickly introduced alcohol, which was that there was no ordinary consumer product. So I couldn't agree more. You see, I did so because it also appeared in a debate. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Arjölm's Árnason said that alcohol was no ordinary consumer product. On the other hand, if you read the paper with the bill, you will find that alcohol is just a product of consumption. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether she feels a little strange to say on the other hand, but he argues about his case with an all - out report. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u157	V.E.G. President. We agree on that, me and what. Þóra The Steinunn Árnadóttir that there are many good information, and we have so many good information from many foreign studies that we should be able to apply. We agree on that, and so do we apparently. A senator who is the spokesman for the case. We realize that alcohol is no ordinary consumer product, but it may have made a mistake between the report and the cover talk or something that caused a mistake between drinking and eating habits. Therefore, it is more necessary to keep it in special stores with limited access.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and perfunctory speech. I noticed why. A senator focused much on the public health issues and went extensively into reviews from the previous discussion of the council during the last council, and he thinks it's all right, but he did. However, a senator did not use the reasoning that is heard very much, which is that this will result in less selection in the country, especially in higher prices and probability. What I can't figure out, what I'm trying to solve is a mystery why doesn't anyone want to ban the beer? Why doesn't anyone want to reduce sales? Why doesn't anyone want a higher price? Why does nobody want less choice? If this results in less choice and greater price, I ask why. A senator who hopes that she can answer but does not fully understand, the question is simple: How about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u159	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, you also have to think about the country in these matters, and there, of course, both consumers' ways and public health. I just couldn't get into the consumers' idea because time flew forward and was suddenly finished when I was about to enter that category. We watched many of the country's settlements at a good wine camp or an ATVR camp or whatever we call them, with a lot of selection in special stores of policy, camps that have strong social responsibility in their policy - I didn't quite understand the exact question. Senator. I just have to say, likes to. A senator won't repeat it? I'm not trying to figure this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u160	A respectable president. No problem, I'll try to explain it better. Here, people often argue that this has such a negative effect on consumers, and they often mention this selection in the country, especially since the market may not be large enough to justify 150 kinds of beer. What I have observed, however, among the people I spend time with, is that many people have favorite beer and may buy it in more than if they had no favorite beer, i.e. If they had only three or four species that were not special, and if the merchant could not be asked if he could buy in something more specific to him, he would probably drink less. What I notice is that these reasons why the bill is going on in consumer interests in this respect are the same reasoning. Senators are here to greet the bill for public health reasons. The mystery that I cannot solve is why the same people are opposed to the bill on the grounds of public health and are opposed to the fact that the consumers are not harmed by the potential of consumers in choice and alcohol access.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u161	V.E.G. President. Yes, that was a very clear question. [[The point is: There are two people who do not understand the question.]] Yeah, there's two of us. So if people want another kind of beer - I know it well from my husband - it's good to be able to go there and ask for it. If there's no species, it's no problem. Of course, you want people to have equal feelings about these factors. The little merchant, let's say only in Thyatira or elsewhere, won't have the same chance for a product selection as anyone else. It's about the equality thing, because you're all for the greater selection and quality of choice in a liquor store, since it's the special store with special expertise and a strong community responsibility. People who suffer from difficulties may not go into the wine store instead of walking past the warehouses filled with alcohol in Bronson when they start buying meatballs or something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u162	V.E.G. President. I'm silent against what I'm saying. To give the senator a very good speech and a review of the viewpoint of those who came to the council when this matter came to her attention and the way a red thread was felt in the opinion of all those who care for health care, public health, and drug control, warning us not to accept this bill. Now people have talked about cost. People have talked about the state being made of half a billion when the money is taken from the tax records and transferred to Adventist and Bonus, where they would like it and their spokesmen here at the council. There are also other economics that matter, and this is the cost of health care. [[The president calls.]] Is it not a thing that we need to take note of, too, when we look at this bill and the increase in alcohol consumption it will produce, the cost of the health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u163	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I was sitting there. A top-of-the-art Board of Education when a bill was discussed there until payment last year and very interesting to see how the reporters were slightly divided into two groups. Much more of the headlines were from people's health and youth sources who warned us seriously about the fulfillment of this bill. Another strand that was considerably visible was from traders, trades, and services, as well as from services. who want the bill to succeed. You're really thinking about it. In terms of economic figures and economic efficiency, and then many carriers have said that we save money for the State by shutting down the store, but I believe the cost of saving won't be long due to an increase in the rate of public health-related diseases and the circumstances that need to be addressed and this will otherwise affect our system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u164	V.E.G. President. Sometimes this is the case here at the Hall of Congress, when local senators criticize a local minister, it seems inappropriate, but when the criticism is on the grounds that the government may be the government, and individual ministers are not going to follow the policy established by the government on this matter in terms of human health goals that the government intended to establish upon them, it is worth calling attention to. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing up these factors, government policy on public health, and for urging the senator to maintain the signal that was drawn to a team by the forwardal and independent party when this government was formed, and I'd like to ask if there are any gaps in the course of time. A senator in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u165	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I didn't mean to criticize anyone in these matters. I just wanted to point out the policy that the government has taken in alcohol and alcohol abuse and that it was one of the priorities - or nothing else, this is the priority of the Independence Party of Congress. I'm not going to have any trouble in this case, and I'm very much in favor of the public health policy established by the government. I think it's a great piece of paper, and I really hope that most of us can, or just all of us, apply it and keep it in mind because I think it has a good effect on the welfare and health of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u166	Mr. President. This has been a good discussion. I'd like to raise this piece of paper, which is a challenge to us generals when the bill was last reported on by 23 member organisations who are at the co-option board. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ We seek that our representatives at the General Assembly are carefully familiar with the possible influence of the bill on public health and national interests and that are its provision for research, advice and information from public health, alcohol and drugs experts, and particularly those who are responsible for the affairs of young people. I'm one of those in opposition for two reasons I heard that the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson had a hard time understanding, i.e. Based on public health issues, but also from scattered areas. I'd like to go through this bill and maybe take something out of the discussion that's been going on here today, for I'm feeling a lot of semiskilled. It was shown about ATSVR and its role in cooperation with the police and organisations who work for prophylaxis and special emphasis was placed on making it easier for youths to get access to alcohol. That's one of the reasons why I believe that there has been no increased consumption in young people. This is part of the arrangement presented here. Hence, it is not necessarily a greeting that food stores and department stores go into some cooperation with the police and the agencies involved in preventing and inducing adolescents. I think it's a very important point and I think he's a retard here, i.e. Parts of TVR and the role of the department store. Later, too, when talking about the patenting of the ATVR to a little alcohol sales, it also states that private partners are trusted to comply with toxic, firearms and ammo regulations. It is often sold in special stores, and people with it have their knowledge. I believe it is appropriate for you to know that there is only money sold in special stores like alcohol. Then there is the question of improved wine culture, and it is said that storekeepers may be expected to benefit themselves in teaching alcoholic beverages about which food is acceptable and that this service will not be less than at present. I think this is a very big statement. I don't have the feeling they're going to do that kind of service. We see it naturally in the light of the workers' wells at the supermarket. It's a little strange that the bill says no alcohol can be sold at certain stores. I was thinking that some prominent reporters might not have gone to video stores recently because the young people would not necessarily gather there. I think it's more of a gathering at the mall, a small spring, a glassy square, or where it is now. There's certainly the big grocery store, so let's not forget it, i.e. These dominant and dominant people at the grocery store are there. Is that a coincidence? I wondered who this bill is. Then it is forbidden to sell alcohol at a gas station. In effect, the food stores at the Skelen Station, N1 and Oli, are running, or running, as a matter of fact. You can't sell alcohol there if I get it right. So there is a twin in this, too. It also refers to alcohol as a regular consumer product, as mentioned in the bill, such as tobacco and ammo. Neither tobacco nor ammo are common consumers of mine. I think it's really awkward that this is going on here because it was taken care of and we talked about it last time. It would have been wiser to take something else to try to back up this arrangement. Of course, when still talking about the competition and the effect on the merchant on the corner, as is said here, we can wonder. It is said in the bill that in areas where there are few liquor stores, such as in the region of the country, this effect can be very powerful and even crucial to the store. It is claimed that greater freedoms will equal the state of commerce all over the country and provide merchants with a better chance of taking part in business competition. That's interesting, because I think there are three of us here in the conference room right now who live with reduced access to alcohol, i.e. There is no liquor store in our hometown. There's one supermarket in my home, in my home, in a harbing set, and I can't see how this should make a difference for each other, whether I shop there or not. I can't go anywhere else unless I leave town. So it is a bit awkward to plan for the bill to become the grandest Sambler selection in certain places where she already has a monopoly, or other shops in such places. I like to put it down here when it comes to claiming that this bill will have a good effect on the local trade. I don't agree with that. The access to limited selection is also considered better than access or access that is difficult or costly. I feel that this is the way I speak down to the country, and I don't like it. I think that the access we already have, despite the fact that we have to drive for some minutes or half an hour even to get some wine, we have at least the service there, and all the products that are equal to so many, and we also have the opportunity to ask for a special request that we would not otherwise have the liquor store in our company. It is also worth considering that we have an ad ban, and we have a low awareness of brands of product, both strong and light wine. Iceland has been shown not to be very slippery, although it is now increasing, including with the arrival of a small rocking house. So let's not forget that the grocery market continues to be driven by discount shops focusing on products at the lowest price and low prices if possible, no matter where it comes from. We know, and it's been traced here that the government's liquor and tobacco market is very good, and then we can maybe go to Bonus where there's, like, energy drinks, maybe two, the cheapest, and there's nothing else. Why, then, should there be something different about alcohol? Let's not forget we're talking about all over Iceland. We can't just focus on 101, 105, 107. We need to take care of everyone in the country. I'm sorry, I don't think this could be a better place for the country. Again, the impact on prices is on. It's okay to review the prices, just for fun. If we talk about a bottle of wine that costs 1,600 bucks. in the ATSVR shelf price, the value tax is 325K, the ATSVR cover is 194k, the entire sale has about a thousand dollars on top, the alcohol charge is 645 k. and return the fee just over 18 bucks. What remains is the application of the entire teemer, which is around 418k. I can't see that private people are particularly excited about not wearing any more than this. It claims that it is acceptable to add more to products that are expensive in shopping and supply, and that competition and demand should only control what is available locally, so the small rural communities may not be able to afford a wide range of products. I think that's in the very nature of the thing, since there's not a crowd to distribute. And it is claimed that the effect of freedom on the price of another retail price will be reduced due to additive effects. There are a lot of illogical statements in this bill. Whoever they are moving, they haven't been reasoned with me in my speeches. It is discussed here about the little rocking houses and that they will be better off if this is done and I do not speak of any change in culture to begin in a worsening direction, but it is claimed that balance will result in a return to recovery and recovery and recovery of consumption. Next, it is claimed that there was no definitive causal relationship between increased bioavailability and increased consumption. The last time the case was presented and referred to at least two studies that refuted the case, the social profile of public health experts has deteriorated. I can't see that those who deliver this bill have proved something else. So I'm going to continue with the little brewery, I think it's a fake. The wilds and the albums are the dominant members of this country. They are the largest, and they continue to be the largest. They can also move in like others and do so. The fact that it'll be easier for the little house to get in somewhere, I don't think it's right. At least I would like to see something in my hand about how men would argue. Then it is that if people feel that something is wrong or that the ATVR system is not okay, they must be something we can talk about and adapt rather than go into a concrete system as it is available here. Visitors and others are also said to complain of bad access to alcohol. It has been observed in our discussion today that the number of restaurants has increased and tourists have greater access to it. They don't have access to buying wine in grocery stores, as they do in many lands, but they don't have the same size in all countries. My daughter was in Italy about two years ago, and it was just closed on Wednesday. 3 at specific stores. It was just a dump there to do it. This in itself is no different. We have it as it has been testified to by other countries that have it this way. I don't think we need to be like the nations that have been shown to let loose from public health. If a small sale of alcohol is given free, the merchandise will depend on business issues. That's what I'm worried about, as I said before. This means reduced bioavailability for the region. That is also true in this context. I talked about the big chains earlier, but I guess they'll also get the best shopping price, the biggest one gets the natural price, because there's more to it. They may be able to sell at a lower price, and they do not compete with others, where shopping prices or the cost to them are higher. Then it's that thing with its own import. Who is to account for the cost? That's not what they're talking about. It's just that it can't be sold at expense. Presumably, the final price of the distribution holder is included in the official terms. Who will calculate it if a bonus imports red wine directly at the cost? We know that Bronson is the largest importer on the market, and he has an absolute position on the market. I'm worried that no one else will compete with it. A respectable president. We're running out of time here, and I'm going to say so much. At the end of a lot of public health coverage, and I agree completely with them, it is also worth a lot to remind of the country's settlements and employees in that area, it is no less than in the big capital area, and very often there are young people. How do an 18 - year - old, as suggested here, say no to wine? [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking. I don't have much faith in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u167	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir An excellent speech for Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. She reviewed various factors that deal with monopoly on dealing with alcohol. I repeat, that's what this is all about, this one part that is the commercial arrangement. So I don't make any difference with the bill and one of its partners. Hv. A senator considered things very interesting, entered double - skind in various fields, and, of course, that alcohol is no ordinary consumer. It created a competitive and regional equality, so I want to reiterate that this bill is not changing the subject of public alcoholism, just the trade process. In fact, the importance of prevention and abuse is not being compromising. Hv. A senator put it to the point that we were calling ourselves a nod in these matters. The discussion ignores all other factors, and I feel that the discussion is the result of other factors, such as prices and taxes, drunk driving repairs, education, information, and general lack of confidence in shops, mistrust in people if I allow myself to take very deep into the years - I want to go. A senator will answer that question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u168	Mr. President. It's not about distrust. This is about the fact that we have research in front of us from extremely many sources who say that this arrangement is the best when it comes to prevention. It is difficult for young people to resist their peers and say no, not let them through. This can be very difficult for many, and I worry about it. It's certainly not just young people in stores, but there's something about them and we know them. As I say, the little places in the country may be just one and two in the store at a time, it's not necessarily full, so who can monitor others, etc. This is also the case, but more than anything else, I feel that this is the case - and since it is the last time we talked about it - that the World Health Organization and so many others who have been quoted say that it is a context, and since it is happening in this way, it helps to reduce the consumption of young people. That's mostly what I believe in. That's why I've said that despite the increase in the state alcohol trade, the more important things are the people, the quality of surveillance, the participation, the cooperation with the officers and the police. All of this matters, and they can't move into the grocery store, that's perfectly clear. That's the reason, not that you don't trust others. There is strong evidence that the grocery store may simply not be able to do exactly what our government company is doing. I think it's mostly that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u169	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A candidate, surveillance, and maintenance are important, but it says in the bill that there is no compromise. I don't see reason to distrust the store in order to follow the rules. I'd like to make a picture of it as a cosmian when the bill goes to the committee to consider the age of subsidiary, which is 18 under the bill, to raise it and such factors. We don't have anything to give in it. The reviews that occurred last time the case was discussed at the time. A global and educational committee was divided into two major issues: public health and commercial issues. In this discussion, I miss a little talk about national savings. When we consider public health issues, we link research and disease during the discussion, that is correct. However, many other factors are important. For example, there is a strong link between income and alcohol. Alcohol consumption is more common as income increases. I miss the fact that we're discussing a lot more variables in this context. Talk about national savings, running around the liquor store, is about 28 billion. The cost is about 6 billion. We would release some 6 billion of us for the sake of setting priorities in the medical system. What does it say? A senator for saving and setting up Kingdom interests? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u170	Mr. President. We can discuss savings in various areas and areas, including the following: how the priorities are in the budget, how this government collects income, etc. Economic savings and the release of 6 billion? We don't get 6 billion zigzags and spit them into the system. Indeed, national savings is not just in the money there is. We have to face the fact that these tests and what we have in front of us tell us that it's going to break out somewhere else. We must not use numbers indiscriminately, even though we can look at the company books and say these numbers exist. I don't want to just look at it as if it's just something we can put into the system. I think it's important to have a private - or to watch, whether we weigh the big chains, or, for example, the possible consequences of the health system? We're not sure what to say about consumers' reasons. The manager and the likely person who opposes me feel that this is for the benefit of consumers. I don't think so, as I traced earlier. I also think it's naive to think that if ever we go back, we'll be able to get this through. It's like when the phone was private in the past - what are we stuck with? There was a question about some personal property that had not gone well. The phone's a good example. The settlements are bleeding for the privatization. I agree with the senator that we have a short period of time. We could discuss this from an amazing number of factors, should do so, and will expect to continue on the committee, and here, if the case happens to be 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u171	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For a very good talk, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter arrived. It was very good what came in here in connection with shopping prices and supply and access and prices. The TVR is not a problem. The social responsibility of ATVR is exemplary and is high in all elements as measured by the Icelandic delights. Based on the results of February this year, Icelanders are the happiest with ATVR. The people of the country. When I'm out in the district, I can't hear that I'm getting drunk at the grocery store. This is not the biggest problem for people to get into the state in more places. And anyway, for people who live outside the rural area in the country and who have to drive to the next urban area in order to make their way to shopping. Then there's always a question about whether there will be more choice of alcohol in stores. I wonder if there will be more selections of alcohol and other species, as well as a better grip on alcohol in these grocery stores than on the e.g. brands of bread? Now you've come into stores in the country where goods are very limited, and I'm not buying the argument that stores are going to keep something better with alcohol than basic household products such as vegetables, fruits, pasta, etc. I'm not buying them arguments. Then I would also like to ask the senator if she had heard it and if she had a similar story to say if this is so important to the local people as to whether it is this very matter that is most important?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u172	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator boy. the answer. This may be what we live in the scattered regions do not hear. We do not have questions about whether this is true or how it is necessary to buy beer or red wine with the steak or something, in public stores. This may be because people are accustomed to making arrangements and feel that they're not involved, and I completely agree with them. I'm sure not everyone shares my opinion. Senator. I find it much more urgent to consider seriously what interests are being cared for, because I don't think it's here that consumer interests are being cared for, not then, except for some consumers who have good access to these products. National interests are not being cared for. In fact, the bill puts it this way that in 600 places only supply and demand are available. Of course, that means a severely diminished product selection. I'm also overly concerned that products will rise very much. I think that's the nature of it because I don't have high stress on TVR, like I traced it here earlier. I think shops are going to pay the price. They buy alcohol at low prices, but they will not be particularly concerned about keeping it low when it comes to west transport costs on the fjords or north. All we need to do is sit down our toes and think outside this big area here that I think is too much of. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u173	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. In Iceland, there are laws and regulations. We who are skeptical of the bill under discussion are said to be custodyists, that we want to know people. But we have a law on so many things. We have a law that people can drive cars, but we also have laws that people should wear seat belts, that they should not be under the influence of alcohol when driving, that they should drive at legal speed and much, much more. We have certain laws around them, and we are also thinking about people's life and health. It is said that we are prejudiced. Alcohol is not forbidden today. We have only an arrangement that allows us to control our consumption and especially want to monitor the use of alcohol youths. The argument with the bill is one of the factors involved. they do not use funding from the state to keep ATVR, which is actually a major factor in how well we are working here in Iceland in connection with the alcohol consumption of young people. For example, the latest results of a four - year - old joint - year - old study examining alcohol and drug abuse are shown that Icelandic youths aged 15◯16 are at least drinking alcohol if compared to other young people in Europe, both in view of total consumption, consumption in one year and consumption during the past 30 days. So we are very good there. Some people are opposed to using government funds to keep the ATSVR that helps us in this hold. On the contrary, I believe that once the bill is through, and when its effects on the worse begin to be maintained here, as studies indicate, money from a government fund will be used to protect and combat the drinking of young Telur. A senator may be hoping that there will be a way to pay off the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u174	Mr. President. I agree with it. A senator said here last, i.e. ... they'regoingtopayout of the problem. If you have the mind to increase your donations to the fore, you will always be able to do so. This can be done by means of a number of income sources through a wealth fund. It doesn't necessarily have to happen with this bill. As I have been traced, and supported with detailed reports, including From the World Health Organization, we have the best arrangement. Its loyal spokesman is Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleinsdóttir, who brought this report to me at the time, which led me to read the report quite well before the last discussion of the matter. I'd like to see the carriers read the report better because there's no support to this bill, and it's childish to think there's a way to go back. We have a spokesman for children at a council, an interpolitian group of members of Congress. I really hope that the group of responds here, for we were encouraged to meet at a meeting the other day with members who came to us from the Children's Land of Children and the UNICEF and others who sat with us at meetings to stand on their feet to this bill with children and minors in mind. I think it's more of a priority than adults' access to booze. I don't think this is true if older people have to bother with drinking, much rather than sacrifice the results we have achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u175	A respectable president. I've been thinking a little bit about how to get ready for this discussion, and I decided not to write anything, but I'm going down some points I've heard today. I think it's a good discussion in many ways, but I still find it in a bit off the wrong side because I think it's in this Senate hall, at least in the way of what I hear, a rather simple picture of human nature. The bioavailability is spoken of, and the next phrase refers to the selection of goods and to the concern of public health, but at the same time there is great concern that products will change and decrease. I don't think there are very few things in my life that have had as much effect on me as on alcohol and on the drinking of others as on some extent my self - consumption. Two years ago, I made the decision to stop drinking alcohol. There were many reasons. I think it's one of the best decisions I've made for myself and my life, but it's also a very personal decision. I wouldn't have, I think, despite all my experiences and contacts with alcohol, I could take in what someone else told me about that matter, no more than all the alcoholics I've tried to handle monopolize, try to get a phone call on, try to take on a video meeting or try to take on in some way since I was very little about the fact that their drinking was out of hand. It's a very complex process and a complex subject, i.e. The alcohol, and the hardest thing I have to deal with in this discussion is why the government should want to sell poison to its citizens. To me, alcohol is poison. I don't think it harmonizes with the idea that we have since then; to have at the same time such an overwhelming concern about what is taking place and what comes back to us after all this alcohol, or little or whatever it is, which usually comes through the health system or the social system. Why, then, should we at the same time be selling people the product under the heading that we are better off and that ATSVR is doing so well in community responsibility? In many ways, I feel that this makes a false impression about what is taking place. I believe that if we go to another place and sell alcohol at the grocery store or shops that are interested in selling these goods, we might bring them up somewhere else because I often feel that we are talking in everyday conversation with people who are talking about alcohol that is not what it is. Alcohol is indeed a toxin. People who drink alcohol will be made personal changes, whether small or great, and they are not able to drive or do very many things that they otherwise can do, which means that they have poisoned their bodies with some chemical substance. But there are a lot of people who choose to do so. In real life, there is nothing that makes a person want to do it, no matter what reason, not do it. I have been living in the face of people when everything in their lives should be able to say that continued drinking is not smart, but all they want to do is keep drinking. I don't feel like we're talking about the problem or whatever the cultural problems come from alcohol. I think that's a lot of things because our relationship with alcohol is very twisted. One of the stripes is we're talking about something dangerous and dangerous, but the other band is the happy ATVR employee who hands the bottle of wine with the steak all good and blessed, but it's still a state-bath. It's something we're all together holding out and holding out, and I don't think it's personally right. I think we should rather spend money, energy, and our attention dealing with alcohol and alcohol abuse as it really is rather than just because of some of our speculations that if we change this, everything will turn around. We can't handle the alcohol today just the way it is. There are a lot of people who cannot control their drinking. I don't believe that bringing alcohol on the sale will overthrow that reality. I believe, however, that we will be better able to be more honest in the discussion of the products involved. Besides, as a community, we have decided that alcohol is approved in the community. Then I also pondered over all other addicted consumer products, such as drugs. Why are we putting alcohol in this outfit? It is full of drugs that have shown that, of course, there is a debilitating or mental change in the body, but it may not be less, worse, or different from alcohol. To me, then, we should just have the state drug business as well and see where it leads us. I don't think it's quite a debate about this ending that it's difficult to control the complexity of human nature. The groundwork is alcohol to me personally that it has a major impact on people, so it is not surprising that this discussion is taken up, that many people are interested in it, and that they want to talk about it. Besides, I've heard that no one is interested in this, it's not the big heat in the districts, and it's something like that. Of course it isn't, but making these changes will have some effect, but I honestly don't believe it will move us to some place that's worse or different than the place we're in. But I believe that the discussion can lead us to a place where we start talking about these things the way they are, but not like we're in some place where we have a huge tan on it. Then I just think that there's something very premeditative about what's being said here. It's revealed in it as if we can handle something that I don't think we can handle. I don't think it's the part of this meeting to set up things that give false security. For example, it's like a store like the ATVR do today. I think we should rather put our focus on opening things, we should put the focus on strengthening those who need help, e.g. Regarding psychology, assistance to alcoholics, and the handling of a very broad number of problems that come with them. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, for example, lost contact with income and alcohol abuse. There are many such factors that are very important to the way people drink alcohol. In the end, it always stands and falls with the person himself and the environment it is in. If we make it so cool that there are only a very rare variation between human beings losing control and getting caught up in some kind of nonsense about alcohol, or else we're the rest of them in a colder, protected state drinking, I just don't think that's right. I rather think it should be on the responsibility of those who want to sell this product. Of course, it will always be the responsibility of the State and our community to seize those who are going on undesirable paths. But there are so many other things that play in there, but exactly only alcohol. But there are a number of other factors that need to be considered. I'd like to see the bill come to my vote. I know that it stirs up many strong and intense feelings, but I think it's very healthy in many ways, because I think we many people, and I talk them out of my own mouth, I had a long time in a really fucked-up relationship with alcohol, because I felt it would have to be more delay than it was. Now I'm free of it today, I feel that alcohol is a poison, and I'm very proud of that claim, but it doesn't matter that I don't change anyone else. It's a lot of people who will drink alcohol and do it for their own reasons, but I don't think it's worth the money and energy to create some setting around the consumers that give false security, and plus that I think a lot of other things could be taken into the state store. I could mention many other drugs. Then you could take in the government's sugar store and go on forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u176	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator speaks of it as a form of false security if we have the exclusive right to buy alcohol in ATVR and that we should trust people and people must know how to use this poison. Of course, as a society, we place ourselves full of rules, laws, and regulations. Counts 'em out. A senator that the same applies to so many other health and public health, to say just safety belts in cars, are they forgery? So, shall we just let them go? People can always have accidents. Where to draw the line? Where should we draw the line regarding the so - called custody of the State? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u177	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the question. I'm not talking about how we're changing our water system so that alcohol's coming out of the taps instead of the water. I'm saying if anyone could do that, then this meeting here should be able to set that frame and the laws that need to be in force to protect those involved like children and others, many of whom have mentioned here, who are vulnerable to alcohol. I trust this meeting very much in creating the framework that makes sense and intelligent to keep up with these consumer products, just as many other undesirable, dangerous, or dangerous consumers do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u178	Mr. President. Freedom comes with responsibility. One of the reasons that the State has this sale or has the right to do with it is that the State and the health system accept the consequences of alcohol abuse, whether we believe it is a personal matter or a community responsibility to deal with alcohol abuse that is certainly there. With high prophylaxis it has diminished. Let us not underestimate that. However, should not the private people who scratch the fingers of others'drinking habits be more responsible for operating the health system? Where does that part come into the bill, i.e. private people who make the profit of drinking, where does their responsibilities involve accepting the problems that the State will otherwise receive through the medical system in the future? I'd like to hear a response. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u179	A respectable president. I think the health system today is taking on a huge amount of alcohol - related problems despite the circumstances. I'm sure the tax revenues and the other aspects of this changed arrangement can be adjusted so that the funds should, at least, be kept out of the way that the health system can escape because of this problem. If there's something, I'd likely put more money on prevention and more extensive preventive measures, since there's one thing I think is most missing in Icelandic society today, i.e. More variable treatment regimens, especially for women. I'd be delighted if it was added to the bill text.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u180	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Heiða the daughter of Kristín Helgadóttir with a fine speech. Hv. Among other things, a member of the body introduced misuse of the product and negative consequences, social and physical, to our health related to this abuse or abuse. That's when it went. A senator into the role of freedom or predestination. The State's role in such matters is rather, and I agree with it. Senator, keeping track and rules. The fact is that the arrangements for sale vary widely between nations, from monopoly to free sales, and then a mixture of them. Among other things, the World Health Organization's challenge is to collect information that can be taken seriously. This was addressed by a senator in the discussion. I didn't understand why. Is it not true that a senator is involved in providing a store and sale with this product very free? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u181	A respectable president. Yes, you understood me correctly, I am a true follower, and for the reason I don't think the kingdom and the government ought not to sell this product to their citizens. I don't think that's right, I think it's a little off, and if the government was going to do that, I think there should be more drugs to take to him, which the state could then pack and sell at some price.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u182	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We feel exactly the same way for exactly the same reasons. Hv. A candidate also mentioned this in the discussion, which is an increased bioavailability, increased consumption. It has been reported, among other things, that when beer was allowed here in 1989, consumption in liters increased, but a similar increase in alcohol fractions is not the same, but the opposite. There is almost the same consumption in alcohol, while there is about 480% increase in litres. Culture must have something to say about consumption. Hv. A senator spoke in his fine speech into a cultural aspect of this. Can we agree that this aspect needs to be considered further?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u183	A respectable president. I am glad that we agree on this because I feel that this is right. I don't think it's right from the way we've spread liquor stores around the country that access is limited. When I drank alcohol, I well remember that if I wanted to drink on Sunday, and a liquor camp was closed, it was not a big matter to get out of it. There was no black market, it was just a case, and it was done. I don't think the bioavailability point is correct. I believe, however, that the culture and the conversation people have and the zombie that is slowly becoming more effective in society. I think it's going through this discussion will bring us to an even better place and have great faith in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u184	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We are told on airplanes to put the oxygen mask on us first before putting it next to us or to help a child who is traveling with us to help the child and in order to be there. The Senator introduced the diversity of human nature and the intervention of the State by those entering an undesirable path. Then perhaps it is a question of whether we need not discuss what can help. Just as the book Alcohol - no ordinary consumer products that we have largely windows in connection with this issue stand up ten ways out of the way to minimize harmful effects. These are ways to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol. Is it not, then, the role of the State to use them, such as dates for drinking, state sales of alcoholic beverages, restrictions on buying and selling time and days, the number of sales, alcohol taxes, and so forth? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u185	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I couldn't quite tell if there was some direct question to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u186	I want to talk about these things that can help people reduce...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u187	Yes, in terms of reducing alcohol consumption, I don't think there's any point in changing how these products are sold, to continue to do so. I think it's all important things, I don't slow it down. What bothers me is that I have the conversation that some people are in here like that we have some arrangement that's just good and good and that doesn't have to change anything. The fact is, those who get the worst out of alcohol, so I focus on the negative aspects, don't get the help they need today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u188	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. There are many things we need to change in the arrangement, e.g. First of all, what the State puts in order to counteract the harmful effects of alcohol. The priorities have been discussed in this symposium as counterrequisite measures on what could be done under investigation if this bill goes through, i.e. the bioavailability will increase the alcohol consumption rate in young people. If I talk to young people around me and ask them, " What made you stop drinking or why don't you drink? ' is the most common reason for experience after people had tried it. The young people became sick because they had no control over their drinking or their actions, so they felt that it was bad or that they did not drink because their parents had a drinking problem or because alcohol is expensive and wants to do something else with their money that they find more intelligent. The whole point is that the question is, Should the prevention be the only point we focus on with the approval of this bill or if there are other methods? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u189	A respectable president. I think that both the emphasis on increasing prevention in the bill and also the whole conversation, as you mentioned, has been talking to people around you - I've been talking to people around me. I'm interested in this case. I would be delighted if the Allied Council could resolve this big case so well, and afterward a good discussion of alcohol and alcohol consumption would be covered. But if we consider this social issue that we have somehow decided is the most appropriate treatment for women, as mentioned, and a more varied treatment. So I have faith, research, and the changes I have observed in this discussion all over the world - there are more ways to cope with the consequences of alcohol abuse or abuse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u190	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. In fact, I think there are a few paradoxs in it. A senator spoke earlier and I just want to, so I understand, to hear a little bit from her with them. First of all, he talked. A senator says that we could not handle the situation today. I agree completely with that, and that's why I ask: Is it a way to contribute to a change in alcohol distribution that is indeed leading to a likely increase of up to 40% in a glass litre of pure alcohol on a person? Is that beneficial when we fail to cope with the situation today? Is it really possible, then, to get rid of alcohol, allowing this four - quart [1 L] increase per person each year?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u191	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the question. I can totally understand the concerns and perhaps to some extent that there might be contradictions in what I'm saying, but what I'm saying is that I feel that the root cause of the problem is that alcohol is not spoken of as alcohol. I often feel that it is a single group with a problem with alcohol. All can lose control of alcohol, where they play heavily into social situations, and the environment of the person. It's my religion. I'm not so sure that this 40 extras, or whatever the senator mentioned, will necessarily hit us in this way. I think that by opening it up as suggested, we will also bring it back to the side of the state, which I find a certain message to be sent to the community and a responsibility. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to take responsibility that we're selling alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u192	V.E.G. President. I don't agree that we talk about alcohol like it's something else. Besides, I don't agree that we don't know who gets hit by it. I see why. A member of the council so that we are now only talking about alcoholism or alcoholism or something, which is just the top of the iceberg. More alcohol, e.g. Four quarts of pure alcohol per year, with countless incidences of cancer, heart disease, and liver damage. Maybe that's a big one. When the senator says that we are not to take responsibility for this by selling it, I ask: " Will merchants take responsibility to sell it? How will they do so? Is it not better, then, that there are some restrictions on this trade than to let it there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u193	A respectable president. As I said before, I think these halls are fully capable of making laws and rules about how these sales would be done so that it would be the most reasonable and reasonable. I also don't think we can allow ourselves to fall apart that human nature is not some linear process that we can install in excel. People do all kinds of things that are very strange and not mestens. For all the diseases that are ill. A senator mentioned many other aspects too. If we are going to go along with all these laws and rules, we would soon find ourselves in trouble. All we can do is make it possible to provide information and health services, social and psychological services, and to make sure that people are able to have a good time and so that there can be a good, valid society and quality of life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u194	V.E.G. President. It is appropriate that the fate of what is now back in the Generals Hall has been given the 17th case and that it is at Parliament 13. In fact, it was to be arranged at the 13th meeting of the Generals, but it did not succeed. I'm not crying. As a result, this case is more serious than last year. Why? Because we now know more, at least the person we see here, about the consequences of letting alcohol go to a grocery store than we knew last year. We've had, and we've also received a report of countless sources that almost all agree that this is a bad step, that's a step we shouldn't take. It doesn't matter if it's the surgeon of the country, the Icelandic Medical Association, the "Federal Nurses" thing, the Children's Child, the "President's Association of Social Services," everyone agrees that this is a step we're not supposed to take. For example, it says in one of my almost random reviews, the Board of Research in Childhood and Family Protection on the bill that happened last year, by permission of the President: This bill also violates the well - being policy that all the North countries have set up, setting a pattern for many countries in policies to control access to alcohol and other substances. It's just one review. They're all basically the same but from a few stakeholders, e.g. With deep respect, the relationship between young independents and their associations. Almost everyone else warns us not to take this step. A surgeon, by permission of a president, says, among other things: ▪ On the basis of the best available data, as well as a review of the results of studies and advice The World Health Organization on Alcohol Action is limited to alcohol one of the most effective ways to cope with alcohol abuse and thus reduce the damage caused by alcohol consumption. This perspective is reflected in the Agency, including in its policy to 2020 under the term Health School of 2020. It also says, Mr. President, in a World Health Organization report, that it provides five related factors in the nations in an effort to prevent an unwanted, unreflinchable effect from drinking alcohol. They are: to keep drinking, either to permit it or to sell it to the public person, to control the number and location of people selling alcohol, to set rules for how long the pay period, i.e. each day each week, set the reasonable minimum of the age of those who consume alcohol, to set rules for drinking in public places. Five things. I could continue to talk for a very long time about the public health element in this case. It's been done very well today. People have said that we who speak against this matter are a little caught up in talking about human health, but we do not speak enough of the government's financial resources of this operation. The government's investment in this operation is, with great respect, just a chance, 6 billion people say. If ATSVR was advertised for sale tomorrow morning at 6 billion, I'd definitely do an offer, absolutely. These 6 billion are for four years in a government fund. It's a disaster for all of us. How long will 6 billion be required to cope with the consequences of an increase in alcohol consumption per person by 4 l of pure alcohol per year? For how long? How many liver transplants do they do? How many heart surgery will they do? How much antidiabetic medicine will they do? Cancers all listed in the World Health Organization report are chilling reading, oral cancer, and even anal cancers. Breast cancer in women is greatly increased by an increase in alcohol consumption. In this report, the world today has the highest level of alcohol consumption among women. It is almost certain that you can see an increase in alcohol consumption - there is no need to say that because it appears in so many of the comments given here, i.e. If an alcohol store is released at the grocery store - the women would likely suffer primarily. I think it's the next one. Today, it is estimated that about 7.6% of the deaths in men aged 15 to 559 worldwide are caused by alcohol or alcohol - related diseases. This ratio is now 4% for women. But since people have talked about how much money it costs to sell alcohol, it's the cleanest fair. It says on page 18. 9 on report: It can be assumed that tobacco sales account for about one third of the sector's ATVR and that a large proportion of 1.5 billion U.S. pay-off on a government fund due to tobacco sales In fact, this is no short argument. But then comes this wonderful sentence: ▪ The question becomes particularly perplexing in view that private business is generally more practical than public business. - Wonderful. Now I think about the surveillance industry, which was private here a few years ago. All of the blessed engineering agencies, with great respect, who now sell the state, use a ministry once performed by the State. I wonder what is of great advantage there. I spent some time in my speech last year talking about who would benefit from this bill, and I listed those who would not profit from it, i.e. Young people, family members, those who are weak for wine, etc. I found two people who could benefit from this, i.e. The big shopping chains that control everything around here. Then I'll say again, shall we at the General Assembly deliver three chains that have 90% of the retail markets all at a rate of 10% increase on top of what they're selling today? 25 billion on the 220 billion they sell today? This would normally kill every small merchant in the land, on the first day. Then comes the claim that in some way this will benefit the country, that people will suddenly run and post liquor sales on Kopasker with 140 species, a private citizen. I'd like to see it, as the law says. I think it's a real soon. In his opening words this morning, the flier of this bill said that the people of the country didn't trust us. He's right. The people in this country don't trust us. That's very sorry. I wonder if the people in the country have confidence in us because they see this priorities, that we are talking here about putting alcohol in a grocery store and putting it first at the council. Could it be that that's why people in the country don't trust us? I wouldn't be surprised. So says 21 st. The bill, by permission of the President: While free from charge on alcohol, it is forbidden to sell alcohol under price. - So many were words. Perhaps that is why representatives of the store that arrived at a committee meeting last year could not answer when asked directly whether they would accept the same pressures in pooled sales and retails as the ATSVR. They could not answer that question. One more thing that came from the Industrial Association last year. They have been held, and, among other things, I have argued, and men have been crying out, to collect alcoholic bills, to become more difficult and more challenging for the money of state, after this change. What Does Industrial Association Say? It is necessary to change the money on alcohol because we who collected it, i.e. The store, can't finance this, so it has to be added to the same chalgori and a valuable tax, i.e. returning alcohol charge once every two months. How is it today? In response, alcohol costs are returned twice a month, up to a day, up to an hour. These are not pennies, these are hundreds of millions of dollars a month. Is the wealth of money to be reduced by several hundred million each month because it is so difficult for merchants to collect and give back only every two months? They're all saying the warnings that many of them had up here last year, including the one here. It was bad last year, but it's even worse. I'm telling you, because it was spoken of here this morning that this discussion would become and were emotional, that I am utterly unfeeling in this case, completely freezing. I try to be in every situation I take sides with this place. I wondered about the possibilities in the situation, the comments that come about it, and the decisions thereafter. There are no feelings in this matter, not a few. It's simply about whether we want to sacrifice our public health goals, and it's about whether we want to raise prices. Then comes the question of freedom, of freedom. Then you say, " Freedom for who?" The one wing has several merchants who will have the freedom to sell alcohol and make good money of it. Who are on the other side? There are the children in the country, there are the young. There's been a lot of talk about teenage drinking being mentioned here on land by many countries. You're absolutely right, we're very lucky. This is followed by the campaign taken around the turn of the century. On the other hand, there is another drinking in Iceland, which is a big problem, that is, elders drink, it is growing. Both middle - aged and my age, people fill their receptions every morning because they cannot handle alcohol, and those who are still older, say that unfortunately, older people are often supersolved. They are often people who have begun drinking very late in their lives, so this is a growing problem. After receiving all these reports, for example, it is a very clear review of what happened in Poland when people took alcohol from local camps to public stores. In short, the consumption, the income of the state decreased, the increase in crime, and the increase in disease. Very simple. Here, too, is an excellent report on what happened when Sweden took a bunch of groceries. Drinking already went down. It says, by permission of the President: At a time when beer was taken out of camp in 1979, an 8% reduction in alcohol consumption was observed. ▪ Alcohol - induced deaths and illnesses substantially decreased between 1978 and1984, especially among young people. ▪ The time period during which medium - strong beer was permitted in grocery stores was particularly high. What happened after 1977? There was a 15% reduction in traffic accidents amongst the total age of 10 in the average age of 10, 39,40, and 60+ years after the beer was taken out. What are we gonna do with this? Really. Returning, you say: We've created a model, an increase of 1 l alcohol consumption would increase the incidence of alcohol consumption by 9.5% in Norway and 9.7% in Sweden. We're walking into something that would increase the consumption of 4 l per person a year. I'm certainly saying, Mr. President, after this, and I'll come in on more speeches that this unfortunate step is not a defencer to take. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u195	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The one standing here had until a few days ago a member of the National Council welfare committee. There we worked hard with the Northern health advisers, and we worked hard on all sorts of paper signed together and committed ourselves to work on it. You may have thought that the nations worked together to make a huge number of them. I think the discussion here makes the paper we've signed a little trivial. The talks abroad are surprising, people in other countries remind me of the struggles of nations who are in trouble and who are trying to reverse this trend. Then I ask where we're taking Iceland's policy, this alcohol and drug policy that we've also signed on land. Has the senator thought about it, and does he view it as an act of invalidating the agreements we have signed by accepting this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u196	V.E.G. President. I may not have taken the river so deep, but I think it is safe to say that we would not carry it out the way we used to do so. There are many incomprehensible aspects of this matter. One is that the World Health Organization has simply said that other nations, especially in Europe, where alcohol consumption is much higher than in many other parts of the world, should follow the example of the Norwegians, Sweden, and Finns, and place alcohol sold in government - controlled batteries. She recommends that we do what we do well, and we will stop doing what we do well and start doing something bad. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u197	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers. The candidate mentioned his talk on life - style diseases and on the apparent increase in life - style diseases, which are most common among women. Research has shown that the increase will be one of the most important things to do in the home - shopping homes, shop - shopping, and pick up the supplies. I saw an assessment of the costs of alcohol consumption, including Health care, social care, crime, drunk driving, and loss of employment These cost groups would come to the state, and the cost is difficult to assess, i.e. suffering, death, and so on because of excessive consumption of alcohol. Does the senator think that it is more justified in paying for the costs of alcohol consumption than for operating on ATVR?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u198	I've said this, and in my speech earlier, I said that the cost of ATSVR is no greater than that ATSVR returns 1.5 billion a year to profit, e.g. This year. Of course, that is not enough to cover the consequences of alcohol consumption, i.e. Treatment of diseases associated with alcohol consumption. That is why I find it more crazy to let go of the money we truly get for selling alcohol into the Kingdom box, to give up money, and to face a much bigger problem than we do today. In that sense, I don't feel that way at all, as I did earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u199	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a good speech. Apparently, there are people in a town who are paying close attention to the discussion today, since I have received mail where people want to file a case for the discussion. I got some information that at Iceland's earlier show, Monday we'd have been talking about operating ground and a comparison between the small goods store, i.e. Ablation of a small product store, and then an individual in a town has transferred this to the ITVR and the existing figures. But there was a debate in Iceland last Monday about stealing 6 billion for a small store. There is less than 2% unexplained loss of consciousness, but unexplained loss of TVR is 0.03%. That's a hell of a lot. I'm wondering what. A senator agrees with me that this may be due to the fact that NTVR has a high level of internal surveillance and has a high and high level of policy for those factors that are also involved in prevention issues. I want to hear what he says about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u200	V.E.G. President. I'll totally agree with it with what. Senator. I've been tracking ATVR through quite some time and I know it has a very powerful internal check-up and a very powerful personnel policy. She also has a powerful defense against stealing from the camp. I have claimed that by moving the liquor store to a store, prices in the country will rise. I am convinced that such products will also increase as they go into more stores. The cost of this loss would land, just as the military cost of this move, in the public at a higher price of goods over the head. Selling alcohol at grocery stores will clearly raise prices in the country. The only place to go is when sales markets increase at high costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u201	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator came onto something I was going to ask him that in later answer to me. This is shown in the pooled ATSVR target that the loss does not exceed 0.06%, but is 0.03%. If the general market loss, the product market, moves to ATVR, this is 1.6% of atrophy, which is considerably above the ATSVR target. Hv. A senator is a great spokesman for consumers, a man who speaks to them in a talk chair, and who deserves praise for it. I just wanted to ask, which he came to earlier, if he didn't agree with me that this thing he came in a bit earlier earlier would probably not just come back to a higher price, not just on alcohol, but on all the necessities the home needs in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u202	V.E.G. President. Yes, I strongly believe that the transfer of alcohol to the grocery store will raise prices for all the groceries. There are many factors that cause it, including. The fact that the stores need to be filled with older people, but they are often working in stores now. Nor will it pass if sales areas increase from 39 to maybe 200. Today, it's all the place of the State Alcohol and tobacco shop that's sold for 12 of you. square metres. In contrast, the Buyer shop in Loftur's 10 spa. square metres. You can only see in your mind that if we say there's a linear increase in the squares, they'll probably increase 30 thousand. Even if this place exists, I do not assume there will be no alcohol for nothing. I expect rent will come, so, of course, this will raise the price of goods in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u203	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone has no feelings in this case. I feel that this is one of the issues that are addressed to a discussion at the Council where emotions are exactly allowed to become evident. I say that for my part, I feel a lot about this matter. It's not the end of the shot that I'll let the feeling of coming up here in a talk later today if I get to the roster. I want to know if there's any opposition. A senator present is concerned about the financial supply of a trust fund or whether this opposition is based on some public health motive, for according to his speech it does not necessarily go together, i.e. The money the state earns from the liquor store, as it were. A senator likes to have the most, and access to alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u204	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think it is consistent in what was presented in my speech earlier. I'm not going to belittle my feelings. A senator, but I tend to look at things from cold interest, and I think it's kind of freezing if we're facing a very serious increase in the incidence of cancers, increased heart disease, liver disease, and so forth, on top of the natural problem of alcohol. I believe that by keeping high as it is - I'm asking, and it's worse that alcohol will rise when it goes to general stores. Why? Because I want to raise the price of alcohol and make more money of it go to the government fund. I don't want to raise alcohol to make money out of it in the merchants' pockets. If we want to control more about the cost of selling alcoholic beverages, we are expected to increase the value of alcohol while still selling alcohol on government roads. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u205	A respectable president. I thought why. The senator does not answer my question about the bioavailability. There are almost 50 liquor stores all over the country. Over the past few years, the increase in alcohol consumption has been increasing, and the availability of alcohol has been progressive, including the increase in alcohol consumption. with prolonged hours of payment and growing shops, many of which have even been located in child - care stores in the country. I want to ask you why. A senator to see whether he sees the need to limit the availability and why he has not fought against the length of payoffs and the increase in shops. Perhaps he has. I'd like to finally say that it's new to me if one form of commerce over others can prevent disease from occurring. I think that's news. There is something else that could be used. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u206	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this net-out spin. I can't understand how it was in my case that one kind of store sells alcohol instead of another because... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Well, it has been shown in many reports that increasing the number of shelf meters and the increase in opening clock times substantially increases sales. But because of him. A senator asked about the growth of the business ATVR, which is 39 today if I can count correctly, says in a report by the surgeon that the increase in alcohol fractions per person per year is not due to the use of alcohol from the ATVR, which occurs elsewhere. Sales have been increased as the bioavailability has increased and greater and the exhibit has been increased, e.g. Like restaurants. It has nothing to do with the government's policies on alcohol and how many restaurants are placed in the country at any given time. But this document, I'm willing to show you why. A senator is very clear in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u207	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his participation in the discussion on this matter. I'd like to ask him if the Vienna store hasn't really come to a big store. Has not the Camp been located in the largest shopping center in the country or next to the supermarket? I'm wondering how the merchant at the corner leaves it. Well, maybe. A senator pointed me to a Camp of Vienna near the merchant on the corner?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u208	V.E.G. President. I guess that didn't go unnoticed. A senator rather than me, the number of merchants on the corner has dropped very much over the last two to three decades, possibly because stores of wine are usually planted, as they rightly say, close to the supermarket. It in itself damages a little the argument that you have to make an electro-port, as says in the bill's report, to buy alcohol if they go to the store, because it's usually very close. It has been observed here that any man walking into a minivan walking past a liquor store should be tempted to walk past the other side of the store, but there is no alcohol in which anyone is tempted. To get to the liquor store on the other side, you now need to make a good trip. The number of merchants has declined, and it will still be if this bill becomes reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u209	A respectable president. We would not agree, then, that by increasing the number of products and increasing the roll of the current investment, the merchant at the corner could use a new store. Am I right? And what do you think? A senator about the discrimination offered by the state? The government is offering legal poison, let's put it this way, but it only invites some of our communities to do so, not others. I would also like to ask him if he is opposed to the conditions set up in the bill. If the store got the freedom to sell this product, then certain conditions, they have. Is there anything against that condition?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u210	V.E.G. President. That was a few questions. I'll try to remember them. The requirements in the bill - in themselves, I don't comment on them, they're quite nice. In terms of segregation of rural areas - yes, that is why the TVR has a fixed policy in the number of people or such. I don't remember it for a long time that if the people of a local community asked for it, that wish was refused. Now I'm talking from memory to memory, but there may be an increase in the number of these sales we're talking about here, the increase is coming out of the country, and is replaced by mail stores that used this product. In fact, many have now been removed. I don't support discrimination between members of the country. But as an example, I mention one of my favorite places, Aarneshrepps on Beaches, with 36 people; I expect it to be a bit firm to set up a liquor store there. [[The president calls.]] I don't expect the merchant to do that either.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u211	V.E.G. President. Ever since this bill was submitted first, I've had countless visits to society, I've had mail contacts with people, I've had conversations with people, I've tried to get as much information as I can. And while most of these communities are opposed to this bill, people will come and tell me their experiences that are often terrible, I will never be able to say that I understand the circumstances that some people live in, that they wake up in the morning and think every day about alcohol or the next drink. But I can accept the opinions of these people, and I can try to speak for them in here. I can try to highlight the factors that it has repeatedly shared with me on these visits and relationships. Alcohol is not forbidden today. We can go to liquor stores and buy alcohol. We don't just have to go to liquor stores to do that. I can come to a village where there may be no liquor store, where there's a restaurant or a bar where you can buy a drink. The higher the bioavailability than the lower selection is correct. Some of the individuals I have met and talked to have just said to me: " I can choose not to enter large shopping centers where alcohol shops have glass as walls and windows. I can choose not to drive around liquor stores. But I can't pick it, and I don't trust myself to go through a grocery store where access to alcohol might be easier, even visible. There are people who tell me that such a bioavailability is just what should come, and since we can see alcohol through the glass or walk through certain entrances of the mall and see alcohol, it's okay to set this out at the grocery store, but I think we may need to think about our performance. The reduction in the number of shops in the country may not be expected to reduce the consumption of the most feared consumption in the country. for young people. I speak for me and maybe more young people when I say that when I started to drink alcohol, I wasn't necessarily asking what year this was, where the wine was produced, or what deck it was, etc. It may have been more about experimenting and wanting to try alcohol, so while the amount of alcohol is smaller, it does not reduce its consumption. I spent more than two years on the Department of Health for the Council of Northern Ireland. I had regular conversations with people abroad, where I was commended for the good results of keeping young people from drinking alcoholic beverages. People looked to Iceland and were often asking what was best for us. What Can I Answer? It is this social responsibility for ATSVR that is clearly identified in the custodian population, which is preemptive, but I believe it is important that alcohol is sold in these stores. When I went to a window a little more in the possible consequences of passing out a government license to sell alcohol, I examined Sweden's research on setting up a free store for alcohol. There, two possibilities were taken separately. They were trading patents for other patents of liquor sales or letting liquor buys in grocery stores. The first route is estimated to yield a 17% increase in alcohol consumption, which would increase the number of deaths by 770, increase the incidence of assaults by 8,500, and increase the number of sick days by a few million a year, and this is Sweden's number. However, the other possibility of allowing alcohol sales at grocery stores is estimated to yield a 37.4% increase in alcohol consumption, which would increase the number of deaths by 2 you. and the number of sick days by more than 10 million a year. These figures made me think about this in the context of Iceland and the expense team I think we have to watch if we put alcohol in the grocery store. This is not only about the expenses referred to as the ATSVR operation, we are not just getting clean profit afterwards, but we also need to contribute money to health care, social care, we have to face the consequences of crime, drunk driving and loss of employment. I believe that we should look to the factors that research shows that it is best to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol, and that is, first of all, an age limit for drinking. We follow this procedure, and I also want to mention that although it is not legal today that ATVR should be 20 years old or older, at the time, the HTVR has developed itself that the ATSVR staff are not younger than 20 years old and there is no one working for the ATVR of less than 20 years old. There are also other factors that can reduce harmful effects, and there is a state retailer of alcohol, limitation in times and times of sale, limited number of sales, alcohol taxes, licenses for alcohol in the blood of drivers that we were discussing here a few days ago. It was precisely stated that it was the first time in 2014 that no one died in a drunk driving accident in Iceland, 2014. Then we need to monitor drunk driving, driving licenses and driving licenses for people who drink a lot, i.e. The high-risk groups. In this discussion, we must not forget, too, to look to the high - risk group that may be broken down by the illness of alcohol addiction. When I began reading the book Alcohol - no ordinary consumers to understand what people were talking about when they said that alcohol wasn't like milk and bread, I wanted to get more weight in that dot, I wanted to get more reasoning on it, then a little bit startled. To me, this large publication presented a wide range of connections between many factors, i.e. drinking habits, drug, addiction and toxic effects, chronic illnesses, accidents, urgent social problems and chronic social problems. All of these things have something to do with them. This opened your eyes to see that you may not have thought about what one small aspect of alcohol can have a major impact on another. There was a little discussion earlier that in some parts of the country, the ATSVR store was actually inside the grocery store already. But I know that, and I can list examples of some of the improvements that have taken place. I now entered a new ATVR store at Hólmavík where the access has been closed directly from within the market and people are now going through a special access to go into the liquor store. It is of interest to us who may not know the drinking problem personally that people tell me that they can make a lot of money out of the store, that alcohol is not on the way. As a young person, I have had many reasons, and I have received the language from young people who have either been wondering why I'm so opposed or whether I might have some kind of change in my life. I've always stressed that I don't like the way it is today. I feel that there is a great increase in the amount of money we have to weigh on, not only prevention, but also in later times, strengthening those who need to deal with the problem. I don't know if there's another sledgehammer. Senators in this room, but when I started my job at the General Assembly, there was a document that worked and signed 2013, on alcohol and drugs policy until 2020. According to this policy, members of a group were represented by a local surgeon, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Health. I don't know better than this year is 2015 and five years from now, before we're going to take some sort of alcohol and drug abuse policy. One factor is that we are going to limit the availability of alcohol and other medicines and this, to limit access, to the most important measures. This will be carried out under controlled alcohol sales procedures, under effective monitoring of prescription materials, intensive law enforcement and active toll control. I want to establish this point on the maintenance of alcohol sales procedures, are we still following that course? Will the Council continue to work after it? Or should we reprint this and international policies that we have committed to enforce ourselves, as with the World Health Organization and the Council of the Northern World Health Organization? I feel that if we have to come out to a meeting abroad and explain to our fellow workers that we are actually opening up what we have, based on research we have done in the Northern Council, we have to do this. In the alcohol and drug policy, it is said to protect vulnerable groups from the harmful effects of alcohol, to prevent youths from using alcohol or other drugs. Then I would also like to enter the point that has often been discussed here in connection with the issue that individuals who are not yet 20 years old may not drink alcohol but do not drink it and how we can be sure that children will not succumb to peer pressure. I'll give you an example when the kid you've been into comes by and asks you to take care of his drinking or when your friend comes to the box. There is a gap, and it is a question of whether the law will not be replaced by the tensions that there may be. Business managers in the country have also told me: " Where should I get staff who are 18 years old and older? Where can I get an 18-year-old summer temp? One of the biggest problems in my rural population would be getting people who were old enough to be able to handle alcohol. So I'll take it back to Hólmavík, for example, that works for an adult at the liquor store and when it comes to summer time, it's the most young people who work at the store themselves. How will we combine this and maintain the same quality in our ministry, the same pattern of goods, and how will we stay within the line of law? There are a number of questions and I have sent a health minister an inquiry about alcohol and tobacco consumption, asking if the Minister helped or had a plan to further research on alcohol consumption, e.g. in children and young adults who grow up with one or more caregivers who suffer from severe alcohol abuse and other things that we have felt we have already made a commitment to do. I expect to know how far he has gone and to have just an honest answer to this question: Are we still following this course?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u212	A respectable president. I had to get out of the discussion a little bit. I haven't heard a lot of talks between me being here and those who had it. A senator was talking about. But, hey. A senator is the first, as far as I know, who became known as alcoholism, an addiction to alcohol, which I think is worth talking about here. I now know my addiction pretty well, in tobacco mostly, stopped smoking two or almost three years ago, but tobacco has the most addictive drug in the world. I can say that to what. On the contrary, a senator's solution to addiction, which is a very difficult process, especially tobacco, is not the absence of tobacco, but I had to get into the habit of associating with people who smoke without smoking. This is part of dealing with addiction. At least it is my experience and many others who know it. I don't think--now I'm getting out of time--but I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees whether she considers this dramatic increase in the number of stores positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u213	V.E.G. President. Am I understanding the senator correctly, i.e. the increase in the ATSVR stores that have occurred? I'd like to start by saying something, but as the senator came in, he missed earlier discussions where alcoholism was just introduced and we talked only about the addiction and the routine of associating with such things. I don't have the experience of dealing with addiction, so I have to say that I can't relate to it. Whether the number of HSTVR stores is part of the problem? I don't think I can say, because as I've heard, people may have gone shopping, bought more volumes, people said it, they drank more because they had alcohol: oh, I had white wine, I had it with my food, etc. But once the store had come to the community, it was only when the thought came up for some planning: Yes, this weekend these people come in for meals, best to buy a bottle to live at home. I hope I understand the senator's right. But at least I don't think it's like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u214	A respectable president. You see, I agree with what. Senator, that's not a fan point. In recent years, sales have multiplied. At the same time, we have been blessed with a great success in the battle against youths'alcoholic beverages, especially. Certainly the consumption has increased, but the big mystery in this case is-- I'm not being cynical when I say it, I think it's a real mystery -- why no one wants to go back. No one's suggested that we shrink liquor stores. No one's ever suggested no beer. A beer was banned here, and then it was made a wild one. No one wants to go back to their own age, but they did. Probably, if someone had suggested 15 years ago that a seven - fold supply of wine camps, I'm sure all the reports from the medical community would say it was extremely dangerous. Yet, we have succeeded. That is the fact that remains. What I'm pointing at or trying to point out is that this is possible. I'm not saying we're getting results because of the higher numbers of stores. I'm saying, it's possible. If we use a means of doing both at once, increasing our freedom and coping with the problem, we can be very effective in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u215	V.E.G. President. Yeah, this isn't the venita point, but I also believe that the social responsibility of the NTVR is a small part of this, they enforce the law, they monitor the use of IDs, we've seen charges about advertising alcohol. Right away. A senator spoke of returning to them, and I talked about the struggle of the countries who are trying to reverse the trend we are trying to achieve now with this bill. Then it is just the question: Is there a discussion that we should adopt, how we could tighten it, reduce our display, or if we want to continue in this discussion and continue on this course?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u216	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A candidate for a fine talk in which she discussed these matters. In fact, when she started talking about alcohol dating, she knocked a little bit of the weapons out of my hands because I wanted to talk about it a little bit because it's one of the things that has hit me most of the time, except that it's been proposed in recent councils, I don't know how many times, and it's never been approved. You wonder why, if it's such a big deal, it hasn't been approved. What I also wanted to ask you. A senator is - now a person has been thinking about these matters a bit much after this bill was first introduced at this assembly - that all around us in Europe is working progressively to limit access to advertising, and to work on the alcohol problem that is huge in Europe and especially in Europe. Does she not feel that we Icelanders, who have had quite an error with alcohol, are having such a bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u217	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to encourage the senator to have a quick discussion of alcoholism if he found out. It was just now in this sermon that it was rather strange that we were talking about allowing something that other nations are fighting against. Then again, I want to quote the ways in which I try to minimize the harmful effects of alcohol to be observed by the nations. The steps I listed earlier were just 10 of the above 30 ways to look at. We're filling up a lot of these paths. Then the question is: What is the strong argument that makes it necessary for us to go against the current, compared with other nations that are fighting just about to restore it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u218	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We beat ourselves up a little bit, and we say that we've been doing a pretty good job. It's quite a fact that we've reduced teenage drinking and we've been successful in it, but I've noticed it, and I've watched it very closely, actually not drinking myself, is an inactive alcoholic, that since we've allowed the beer, alcohol consumption has increased completely in Iceland in terms of quantity. Actually, we drink differently. We're drinking more beer. I've noticed when I've gone into a pub to watch soccer games, along with other things, that there comes a man running on cars, drinking three, four beers, and then driving away. It tells you that this change, although different from the pattern, made us drive more heavily under the influence of alcohol. It's only a matter of time before a terrible accident occurs, which we read about in magazines. I say the 2013 drinking policy... we're not going to apply it here at least... not if we accept this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u219	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the deposit. He is correct in saying that we have been successful in dealing with our young people. According to a 2007 study, Iceland's young people have a unique role in drug and drug abuse. Many more youths in Iceland have used no such material in their lifetime than in any other country in Europe. Based on increasing pillars and increasing charts on the numbers of those who have not done so, I cannot believe that in recent years the consumption of food has been indestructible. People talk about all we have to do is coordinate the consumption patterns of the Icelanders to the law as soon as this bill goes through here. I'm not exactly buying this account, because I think that already Icelanders don't abide by the law we put on. Even if we do well with young people, we must not forget what was spoken about earlier, that consumption would be the most important thing for middle - aged women.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u220	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A member of the council for a very good talk. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson only introduced what I was going to discuss, which is whether or not. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir agrees with me in that before we start thinking about increasing our access to alcohol, we need to think about where we can turn, including: As to the Senate arrangement we discussed in a special discussion this week. Don't we need to clarify and promote prevention work to reduce drinking driving, because it's all too often that we see people having one beer, sitting behind a wheel, and feeling all right to drive? You're afraid that this is one of the factors that we can see an increase in if the bioavailability increases. Time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u221	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree that we need to focus on the problems we now face. That's exactly what I thought when we began to link the special discussion of drunk driving, which was why. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir had the beginning the other day. A senator named Páll Valur Björnsson once asked for a drink, a drink, and a drive home: Is this not also a matter of education, what are we going to do to educate young drivers, because it teaches the children to whom they are being taught? What culture are children learning? Are we going to teach children that it's okay to drink and drive, that it's okay to go to the store and buy a beer and drink it when you travel, or what? We are already dealing with this, such as shopping weekends, when a gas station was about to sell beer so that people could stop on their way to a national festival in the island and have a glass of beer before they left for the trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u222	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir for the answer. Prevention is a very big and important part of these issues. I have received several mails from people in a town that observe the discussion and feel that it is very important to promote their opinions, which is good. There was one inquiry today that spoke of the good advance work we've been doing in Iceland, about homes and schools, the powerful internal Affairs and the secret visits of employees of the liquor store, and about the fact that society has been very powerful in the prevention work. That's what I'm talking about. A senator did not agree that it is important to maintain the success and further improve the good work that has been done? Does she agree with me that the results we have achieved, including the results we have achieved? has reduced teen drinking, more about prevention than what is always meant, that juvenile drinks have been reduced in spite of increasing shopping costs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u223	V.E.G. President. Of course, prevention plays a major role, even though it is not what people look at most in order to cope with the problem. I agree on the cooperation between home and school. During the course of the day, I found that students at a certain school decided to go to secret schools and shops to try to buy and access alcohol and tobacco on the other hand. The results of the high school social study were that each time the students went into the ATVR store and asked for abduction of alcohol, they were asked for identification and/or referred out. However, in the case of tobacco, they were offered a payment. They refused the money, went out, the teacher went in, and informed the employee of the ongoing survey. There we see a product that is for sale and young people are often selling, and then the discussion about the 18-year-old age will come again, and then it is the community responsibility of ATVR. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u224	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. This has sometimes seemed to be a matter of empty drinking and the case of the individual rather than of the community, while 15% of the people are taking alcohol treatment at some point in their lives. It's about 48,000 Icelanders. Of course, this is an enormous number of individuals who have a problem with alcohol at some point in their lives, and the temptation that arises when alcoholic beverages go to the grocery store becomes huge. I would like to put this in perspective with the children, who are also victims of parental excessive alcohol consumption and a reference to the United Nations Children's Convention, which we are about to introduce. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to react.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u225	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the questions. It is just a strange point that the State should not interfere with this group, it is the subject of the individual, but the government can take care of the problems. These are the problems I have listed many times today in health care, social care, drunk driving, job loss, crime, pain, suffering, death. This can be seen in the State, but it must not interfere. Also, in a summary of nine private studies, there was a 2.2% reduction in alcohol sales in places with state alcohol stores. I wrote down on the third floor. The United Nations Children's Covenant, which shows that the child's interests are to be put first. The Icelandic government is actually obliged to take appropriate measures, including in the field of legislation, to protect children from the harmful effects of alcohol and drugs. And studies show that we do not do this by going along with other countries, which are then dealing with domestic violence, the expulsion of children from school, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u226	Mr. President. The spokesmen of this bill want the most out of the business of drugs, alcohol in this case. It's a question of where to draw the line. Don't you think you can stretch the line further and start looking at other materials that have been banned so far? Why is it to increase freedom to sell alcohol if it is ignored, to cannabis, and to the like? With regard to responsibility: name why. A senator that the store is ready to shoulder the heavy responsibility in the form of taxes, increasing taxes, to live up to what the medical system is providing today with the health problems alcohol creates in the system? Counts 'em out. A senator who sees that the store is ready to handle the problem with his money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u227	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator again for questions. I want to look not only at this discussion as if it were black and white or educational and ban but also, rather, that we have opened windows and have the opportunity to straighten out the problems we've listed, that we have opportunity and a little space to work in it. In terms of shopping responsibilities, I don't see this at first: For someone who doesn't drive - a bonus. Or, rather, if married, we will be able to cope with drunken driving with similar advertising campaigns. In terms of increased taxes to pay back to the health system, I don't see it as compared to the experience we have from returning shops when given in due time, i.e. that they may make more money, that they may return more to the community. If that's the case, it would be very good to have a company declaration about it, especially when we're standing here day after day discussing this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u228	Mr. President. That's where the President put me completely out of shape for a moment. I suddenly thought to the highest. The president was just going to postpone a meeting, and he didn't know where I stood in the weather, but I'm glad I could make a statement. We here discuss a bill for a law under which the government's private sale of alcohol, a bill that has sometimes been subjugated to the name ◯Brenvin's concentration camp, is well illustrated by its basic concept. Hv. paritaprevir In his prehistoric speech earlier today, Vilhjálmur Árnason, the first producer and executive of the bill, said that alcohol was no ordinary consumer product. So I agree wholeheartedly. I'll get that statement right now. However, a senator may not fully match what you read in the report of the bill, since there are many places where alcohol is a regular consumer product. I'd like to take a few examples from the report, for I think it's a huge deal in all the discussions about the bill. A paper with the bill says on page 18. Six, with permission of the highest power. President: It includes increasing freedom to sell in Iceland, but it is not the State's job to do a little sale, but to set rules about it and monitor it if necessary. The role of a private driver is to sell products and services in accordance with the rules established by the government. This view applies to alcohol and other consumer and essential products. Here's your first friendly tone, and I'd like to say at the beginning, I disagree completely. On page 18. 9 on the bill is a subheading, but it sounds so, with permission of the highest power. President: the key to selling alcoholic beverages with other consumer products is the fact that alcohol can be used in the first place. On page 18. 10 are two references to consumer products. On the one hand, it says, with permission from the highest power. President: ▪ In view of the above, it can be said that increasing freedom in a little - selling liquor will settle the trade throughout the country and give the merchant of the corner a better chance of getting involved in business competition. Although it may be difficult for him to compete directly in the price of alcohol, he can offer less effort and savings because his customers no longer need to travel to obtain food. There's actually something else in this phrase that I disagree with, and I may come into it later in my speech, but I have to admit that the last quote of this report that I'm going to bring is actually my favorite because of how absurd it is. By permission of the highest power. The president here says on page 22. 10 of a section entitled ◯ The mini-alcoholic style resembles the mini-salt product system. It says: It is common and legal to eat such things as, for example, alcohol consumption. Tobacco and ammo. It's amazing to me, and on this point it shows how different our vision or approach are in this case, me and the one who wrote this fine piece of paper. There are a few things I would like to use in my talk session to review here and that I feel are important in this discussion. I'm not going to say that I feel that they're all as heavy, but I feel that they're all important to me and that's why I want to try to beat them all. There I would like to mention public health issues that I think are extremely important when talking about alcohol. But there are other factors that I think are important to me. There are factors like what has been called freedom here, which I'd like to now say is more about shopping, and so on. Then I'm gonna start with the public health. Hv. paritaprevir In his background address earlier, Vilhjálmur Árnason said that he had not seen the research that might be applied to Icelandic reality. I don't really know what to do with it. A senator's point is that he does not completely understand the laws of the Icelandic community that do not apply to other Norwegian countries or to other Western countries. I want to go through it a little bit. In support of my case, I'm going to use a review from the surgeon general who came to us during the last assembly, for like a dog. Sæmundsson This case is not being held here for the first time, and it was very well discussed at the last assembly. I agree with that. A senator that we are in a sad situation now when we discuss this matter, and I am sorry that it is back on schedule because there are so many data on which I believe it should really push this case off the board right away. I would like to first mention the harmful effects of alcohol and the widespread public health problems it brings. The surgeon general has concluded that measures aimed at increasing access to alcohol can have a major impact on the health of the country, both in the long run and in the short term, by the cost of society. It is not only the office of a surgeon in Iceland who believes that the governor's office received a letter from the World Health Organization in which it is concerned about the possible consequences if the government's personal pay on alcohol is canceled. So it is not just some seismic phenomenon to worry about these matters. I want to use this opportunity to thank the surgeon general for the fine summary it did and is available to all on the Generals website under this issue, i.e. magazine last year, with a number of research reports on alcohol. I would have thought so. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason should have studied them already when he began speaking about his not having seen any research to apply to Icelandic reality. That's where even the two of them come from. Until Iceland, Norway, Finland, and Sweden have the most stringent European legislation on the trade of alcohol and on the positive link between strict alcohol consumption and alcohol consumption. It is also noted that Norway, Finland, and Sweden all place low on the list of young people drinking small drinks, but Denmark, where alcoholic beverages are readily available, especially beer, has the highest level of youth drinking in Europe. It also points out that selling alcohol as a government contributes to less harm than free sales, and so on. It is a long list that the surgeon general has made up, and it also shows that estimated incomes from new drinking systems are often broken up. It is not taken into account that the experience of others with private employment at a liquor store, that the cost of the current system is often overrated, and that it is being referred to in American research. There's a lot of stuff on these matters, but I can tell that I'm getting my time cut. I said in the beginning that there is more than just the public health that I think is important in this discussion. So I'd like to touch them, for alcohol is legal and permissible, and I'm at least at the same rate today that alcohol - related problems remain. It may be that at some point in the future, my attitude may change, but that's the way it is today, and that's why I feel that we need to take other viewpoints. I'd like to mention the groundwork. It's a good review from a smaller part of my history. The Economic and Business Committee from the last council, that most of the guests who came to see each other. The Economic Commission felt that the range of choices available to people would be reduced or less in the country than in the special markets of urban areas. And because I want to think not only about drinking alcohol but also about quality, I think it's something we should look at. Because time is almost over, and something has been said about freedom of choice, freedom of commerce, I ask: "Freedom of who?" I think this bill will only strengthen or support a couple of major shopping chains in the country. In recent years, we have experienced a great revolution in the operation of minimotives, which have, for example, been involved. increased employment opportunities in the country and people have made themselves work with that kind of work, but I believe that this bill, if by law, will completely turn their feet away from the operation of the small rocking houses. [[The president calls.]] The big producers, like the Waffle and Vifilfell, will probably keep sea in a new system, but I don't think the little rocking houses will be able to do that. [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that I have to come up for a second talk and discuss it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u229	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very good talk, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. She came in there with very good points. In 2005 the nations were encouraged to form a drug and alcohol policy. The last words in this unassigned policy are: It is important for all government decisions on alcohol, illicit drugs, and the misuse of narcotics and narcotics and anabolic steroids to guide public health along with the best knowledge of effective and effective measures. It is also important to activate the whole community for understanding and solidifying the actions and attitudes of alcohol and other drugs. That's what I'm talking about. Since we're discussing this, don't the senator agree that it's time to agree with this policy and update it, as it is now only five years in the absence of this unsolved policy that we decided to form? I'd like to later answer my questions about understanding why. A senator on consumer products.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u230	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Yes, I would have thought that it would be better to finish a job and accept a policy rather than to change the course completely suddenly, to change the horse in the middle, so to speak. I think it's a very peculiar approach to the case that instead of building on the policy that has been developed in some pieces, can be said, from 2005 as well as in a government contract and other activities that have been done in recent years, to decide to do only something else now, as the discussion and what has been done there is of no importance. In fact, there is action that all the evidence, research, and all that we have in our hands, suggests to distance us from the goals we have been setting for ourselves, but not closer to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u231	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator handled the bill well, and he interpreted alcohol as a consumer product, as though it seemed to be a permanagement of the report. Alcohol has been added to the commercial environment and to the general environment. Indeed, it can be said that it is economicly important for various parties and countries to have alcohol, but the consequences of selling alcohol are very expensive, as we have listed in this album today. It involves health care, social care, crime, drunkenness, and loss of employment, physical, mental, and social damage. Hv. A senator made good progress through the bill and evidently read it well. I read what I've been through since then. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who is the spokesman for the case and 1st, when asked whether the consequences of the bill could not be serious and long lasting, etc. He then said that the results of the bill were all so that they would be equal over a very short period of time. Well, maybe. A senator in some way agrees. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the yearning son of Árnason see that the consequences we have listed here will be over and over again?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u232	Mr. President. No, I haven't found anything that makes me think that society will quickly recover from this change, but just the contrary, all the research referred to suggests that the problem will be increased by the bill, if it becomes a law. Most of them why. Today, members of the council are at the state's opinion that the cost is increased because social and health problems will increase, and all evidence indicates that consumption will be increased. Of course, we also know that government funds get their income through the liquor store. So I think that the government can make that money and use it in preconceived activities, in health matters, and, of course, a lot more than a lot of money can buy. But I think that's what. The messengers of this bill have a different view of the matter than I do, for on page 24. 9 says, with permission from the President: ▪ You may also ask the fundamental question: Is it normal for the State to earn this money from taxpayers? In view of the fact that private business is ever more practical than public business, the question becomes particularly perplexing. I have to say, I think it's only natural for the state to make this income because it really needs to be used to deal with the problems alcohol causes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u233	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator in the country's area of choice. Now, I am a man who, if not always, keeps national interests in first place, whether by Internet connections, transportation, or even the airport in Reykjavík, a part of transportation. But in a discussion about alcohol, where we're talking about public health and the income of a government fund and like it, there's always this argument about the selection in the country. I'm not going to get myself to think of it as important, and let alone the role of the state, to ensure a selection of drugs - alcohol is drugs, which, fortunately, legal. If you live in the country, there are less selections, including necessities. Why not make sure that there are other forms of recreation, concerts, performances, and books? I'd be more likely to make sure of that. I don't understand the importance of having equal amounts of alcohol. We're not even talking about access to alcohol, and even if we were - that we wanted to ensure that everyone gets clean alcohol instead of a house brew, that might be a critical reason - I just don't think it's important to have a selection; that you can choose about 150 different species. I don't know how anyone can feel if it's important that when people choose a place for them, one of the many factors involved is selected. Of course, any person's values are just what he or she appreciates of the location he chooses. Besides, in small communities it's probably no business to ask the merchant to buy a certain product, a beer, or a certain wine, something particularly desirable. It's what they do if they need a special machine saw or something else that day, so it often works out in the country that looks good. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does he really believe that this is important?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u234	Mr. President. Yeah, I believe it really mattered. Although I have made the public health business that the main points of my speech here - and therefore not give me as much time as I would have chosen to discuss other factors that I also believe are important in this discussion, I see that there are other viewpoints that are relevant, including the basis for this discussion. I have to admit that the alcohol distribution is one of the things I find to be amazing in our society; it's equal among the cities, whether they live here in the capital area or in the country. I'll agree that the equality could truly be in a lot more episodes, but at least it works there. Drinking is not only a problem, not a problem for everyone, but also a social ceremony for some. Alcohol consumption is also culturally linked in many ways. It makes me feel that people are sitting at the same table. I don't think it's gonna be like that. Now it's like you can go to any Vienna store and have a reservation for you that doesn't exist. Wherever you're in the country, you'll pay for it as much as you pay for it in Reykjavík. I don't think it would be like that if you went to the grocery store in your town. [[The president calls.]] I think the consumer will always have to pay the cost of transport himself, that it will not be the state involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u235	A respectable president. I guess we just have to disagree about that for now. I also wanted to ask you what. A member of the council of the state of freedom. Hv. In the expression "freedom, " a senator asked, "excels of who and whose freedoms? ' Critics of the bill tend to talk mainly about freedom of business. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President, but now I'm so in the hall, I'm infected. But I mean, there's also a question about the consumer's freedom. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he cannot agree that it is a matter of freedom. For example, suppose a person who partakes of the emblems is attending a meeting at the time of the meeting. 9 In the evening on Friday, - drinking just an ordinary alcohol drinker - carrying three or four beers, there's nothing shocking about it for most people, and drinking them. [[Up front.]] Except, the meeting goes on, and it's this brilliant mood - it's part of our culture, like ours. A senator rightly points out - but he cannot get more. Then you have to drag everyone down to the town or to the pub or something like that, or you have to take more to the meeting, which is what many do, whether more beer or vodka cracks for security; it's also part of our culture, and it's made because we have these limitations. When I was living in Manitoba, Winnipeg, more specifically, people came to the party with a few beers because they were beer shops selling beer and they were open to one or two at night. If the mood continued - this cultural thing we'd like to cultivate in connection with alcohol - then a little more could be achieved, not quite a full vodka pulse, but a little bit. Isn't that a question of freedom? Is it not a matter of what choice is a person in search of happiness in our otherwise fine culture when it comes to drinking alcoholic beverages?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u236	Mr. President. I don't know exactly where to begin. Yes, someone would likely view it as a greater freedom to go and buy beer at any time of the day. This is a question of the proman, do we want to ban alcohol altogether, or do we want to buy it 24 hours a day? I don't want either. I want to be somewhere in between. I believe that's really what we're doing with the arrangement we have, i.e. that alcohol can only be purchased at special stores with a set time of opening. We need to weigh whether it is better for society as a whole to have the bioavailability always, or never, or rarely. I'm on the side of this case that I believe that the limitations we now have are fine and work best for most people. You see, I think drinking would get a lot worse if we started to have the bioavailability 24 hours a day. I'm not sure what. A senator would agree with me in this vision. It sounds different to me. It's okay. It's okay. Then let's just discuss it out here in public. What remains is that I believe it is, in fact, the department store that profits from what is called freedom here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u237	A respectable president. I was just wishing I had time for another answer. A senator. Now we'll talk about this drinking again. We discussed, in principle, the same matter during the last session, and at the beginning, I was very bickering in my position, largely out of delinquency. I was not convinced that it would be wise to put down the ITVR or the alcohol component of the ATVR or also to place strong alcohol in a camp. I'm still not fully convinced that it is reasonable to shut down the alcoholic part of ATVR; however, I have come to believe that it is not everything that matters, and after discussing the matter at the last assembly, I also feel that beer, wine, or strong alcohol are not important to you for long periods of time. I think if we went to camp with beer and wine, the strong liquor would follow. I think it's inevitable. Also, I've come to believe that although this bill isn't perfect, I would vote with it if there was a full coverage here, which, of course, is not certain, we all know how it all works. I also believe that it is possible to make changes, and most of them to increase freedom, where I feel that this is the most important thing to me. There's a lot of talk about freedom here. I'll get more into it afterwards. I have noted one thing that is that people are inclined to belittle the matter and ask: " Why is it now on the program? Why is this important? Shouldn't we be discussing something important instead? I mean, it reflects a certain shyness with the seminary. This is similar to the shyness that breaks out when we talk about things that don't seem fancy in our society. A good example is alcohol, drugs, pornography, etc, things that people feel uncomfortable about, but we have to talk about, we need to have the maturity to talk about these matters as they really are in our culture, whether we like them or not. By the way, we don't control culture. It is not the general body members who are to decide what is acceptable or unkind to each person. It is not for us to determine whether a person's time in the community is better paid at nine o'clock on Friday night with beer in hand with good friends or library reading Hamlet. I argue that this situation is important because alcohol is part of our culture, whether we like it or not. This issue, however, is not only about freedom; it also concerns health, human health, as it is called. Health is important. Freedom matters. This matter is a matter of health, and it is a matter of freedom. Then I'm not talking about freedom of business. I'm not interested in accepting this bill because of some segregative financial interest. I don't care about them. It's the same approach as I already have on illegal drugs. I'll take care of the consumer. I'm not here to interfere with the sales and productions and so. I think there's an extra point next to the arrangement to the consumer. He's the key figure in this story, as far as I'm concerned. The rest of the matter is only to the extent that it affects the consumer. I'm not wondering about the seller, and not the manufacturer, except as an individual, I'll be in on it afterwards. I don't think the income of a liquor store matters, even though it's these 1.5 billion, which is controversial and I can't conclude because I don't have the evidence and those who have tried to get it have failed, knowing that, so I just don't know it. TVR is also tobacco dealers, and it's also money on the toe and finger of tobacco, but even if we say that there are 1.5 billion in income just from selling alcohol, we have to ask ourselves: Are we really going to finance a government fund with drugs? Are we really going to do that? Is that civil? Is that what the State is supposed to do? I don't think so. I think it's worth talking about. I think that's an interesting question. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe you're right. I think it's okay to pause and ponder that moral question. I know men who have decided to stop selling alcohol simply because they opposed it. They did not burn the place or ban alcohol, they just stopped participating. This is a moral question that each of us must answer. I feel very uncomfortable that the state is a drug dealer and I say again, I don't care about the seller's rights, except, of course, human rights. So I'm not entirely convinced that the question of income is a prime reason to draw conclusions in this matter, either way. I don't think it matters when it comes to that question. I think it's worth it -- now you always forget how little time you have here - talking about addiction. Whether one wants to call an addiction a disease or not, I consider secondary factors. The drug is a certain behavioral phenomenon, i.e. A mixture of physical and spiritual factors and certainly some social and social features, even significant. I am now a former smoker. I smoked a lot of tobacco, packed at least a day, and more if I was in a glass or something, as if being a smoker was a really big part of my self - image. I quit a few years ago. It was very difficult, and I needed a few tests, and I needed a lot of methodology, and I needed some circumstances in my life, but I also needed to be able to associate with tobacco. The fact that tobacco is in my environment or not can not be part of my avoiding tobacco. If I'm going to quit smoking and I did, and I've got to face the fact that tobacco is sold in stores, I'm opposed to being sold only to the pharmacy. I'm going to have to get the smell of smoking on my friends. I have to be able to get into a smoking habit with my friends without getting a hit. It's not a choice. I have to. This is part of quitting. And I know it's difficult because I've been in this position. But this is part of dealing with this strange, very misunderstood phenomenon called addiction. When it comes to my addiction to tobacco, I don't demand society to hide tobacco from me, I don't expect it to be sold at certain stores or pharmacys, or something like that. If I learn a lesson from being a smoker, I also want to say one thing for the smoker I was: Before I quit smoking, before I stop wanting to smoke, the state knew nothing better than what I wanted. I smoked for years because I didn't want to quit. I enjoyed smoking. And I was, and I don't care what the State and everybody else think about it. It's not government opinion that controls what I want to do with my life. And note that smoking is even a bad example, for it is really just a form of slavery that, yes, was what caused me to quit. I was tired of being a slave. I was tired of my addiction. But back then, I didn't care about my health. I didn't care about the money. My valuable appreciation for life at that time was not merely what I wanted. The senators here were counting me for the best. It is time for alcohol, which certainly has some tendency to cause addiction. Some people are attracted to alcohol, and it leads to terrible problems, just as smoking does. But alcohol is also part of our culture. That too is a positive part of our culture. We need to recognize this. If we face this, we are thus not justifying all the bad things alcohol does, but we must recognize it because of our role, not as a friendly mother or father of the community, but as society's rights, that we do not decide what the values of individuals are. If a person wants one or two beers at 9 p.m. with good friends, good music, upbuilding conversation, usually about two o'clock about saving the world as we all know it, we cannot decide whether or not to do so. We have no basis to determine whether it is a good idea or not for each individual. But for some reason, as soon as we put a group of people in a statistical pattern, all of a sudden, we're on our way. If I tell someone that it's none of his business if I'm gonna get a beer tonight, he'll accept it. That's right, that's your food, you can have beer if you want, it's none of my business. On the other hand, if I appear to be some sort of grain in statistics, it suddenly comes to him. I think it's a little strange. I think it's okay to mention this. Now, I'm not going to reject the concept of folklore, but I'm going to deny that there's some trumpet reason why we're running this community. I refuse that democracy is a trumpet. I refuse. The evidence is important, but there are other factors, including them. That we realize that we do not control the values of the common people, whether it involves alcohol or anything else. Nor does it say that everything should simply be allowed, or everything should be free, but I just want to point out that we should not lose ourselves entirely in public health, even the things that are quite true. As a matter of fact, I'm convinced that if this bill became a law, it would probably increase the overall consumption, I think. At least I don't have reliable data in my opinion that show the contrast. Moreover, I feel that if nothing was done at the same time, it would likely increase my teen consumption, and that is something I take much more seriously than an increase in adult consumption. Well, grown people have that freedom and the rights I was referring to earlier being able to govern our own lives in a way that we here at the High Council may think is extremely unscrupulous, but these are adults. When it comes to teenagers and young people, I don't see them that way. There I find the public health issues to be much stronger. That's where I think it's a trumpet because it's a rare person. To this end, it is important that when we drink in the alcohol arrangement, we do so with certain goals in mind. I think that increasing freedom, increasing individual freedom is a legitimate goal, but it doesn't have to be the only one, we can also have plans and aim to continue to reduce youths' consumption of alcohol and other drugs, legal or illegal. Because we know it can be done. That, a respectable president, is a fact. We know that this is possible because we have been doing it for 15 years or more. We also know a lot about how you can do it. We don't have one solution that's always appropriate. We also know that no solution is bulletproof. No solution works for everyone. But we can. Then I think we need to look at this cause, this bill and this lawsuit, a little more holistic. That's what I would like to see happen during the bill, especially at the right time. A global and educational committee, to meet a wide range of such views to a greater extent than it is already being done. Certainly, the ratio to public health funds is increased from 1% to 5%. Personally, I don't understand why it doesn't go to 100%. Personally, I don't understand, if the state is going to make money on drugs, why doesn't everything go on preventing the problems of alcohol consumption. Now I have far too little time as I actually suspected when I started. But I'd like to mention only ATSVR as an institution. Many here are talking about certain social responsibilities for ATVR. I can't see the point, therefore, of having a private member have the same responsibility. I just can't see what's in them, so I can't see what's out of control. But that is one thing that we need to be sure of is being done. We need to make sure that there is money to do so. We need to make sure that methodology works. We need to make sure that it also works in areas where social pressure is very rich. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, when an 18 - year - old gets another 18 - year - old person to his shop who wants to buy alcohol, which can become a social pressure. We have to assume that we are not allowed to ignore these problems. But we can totally meet them. I hope it's done here. But when I hear about the community responsibility of ATVR, I wonder. Now I don't have enough time to back it up to the end, but at least ATVR shows alcohol in a positive light. InTVR ads alcohol. That's normalizing alcohol. It directly advertises or directs people to see that it is good to drink this wine with food and that something else is not likely to happen. This involves a role that I don't know how to live in a government agency. I just don't get it. If the aim is to reduce bioavailability, I don't see how OnTVR plays that role. If the aim is to ensure that alcohol is not visible, that it is not well spoken of, that it is not advertised, then I don't see how the TVR is doing that role, at least not beyond the role we might as well place on the shoulder of private hands, i.e. if we're good at this. The worry I have about teenage alcohol consumption. There's something I want to stress especially because it shows itself with all the drugs that the older person is when he starts using drugs, because it's less likely that he's going to cause trouble and less trouble after that. I think the focus here should be on it. I also worry that these changes would not be properly supervised and that the council will take it seriously. Now I have no more time than I will come to describe further viewpoints in another speech, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u238	V.E.G. President. Hv. In this regard, a senator said that we did not control the values and desires of the common people, that we should not, and that we did not. I'm not entirely convinced that this is all true because the setting we create with the laws, regulations, and customs we all participate in is affecting our desires. I was also a smoker. A senator at his time. I often wanted to smoke, but I didn't want to smoke in the movies, theaters, classrooms, or church because I didn't usually associate my life there with tobacco. Since then, tobacco has been released. [[The president calls.]] I would like to begin in my first objection to the senator's view that the legal environment, order, and customs do not affect our desires. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u239	A respectable president. I can certainly say that the environment and the rules and the like can be a factor, but my point with this debate was to stress that the public health is not a trumpet. They're not something we can always use, i.e. If something is wrong, it will automatically overcome a view somehow because people want to do things that are disloyal and unreasonable. A lot of great things happen because people do unwise things. Music is a fine example, and there are other literature and perhaps even more personal matters when talking about such things in a necklace. That's it. Our society is made, not of fine, good, beautiful values, traditions, and conduct, but because society is basically free, and people can do all kinds of things that are not necessarily reasonable for a short or long time. We cannot use the fact that something is unreasonable, which trumpets always in our speech when we are going to design the environment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u240	V.E.G. President. I want to live in a free society where I can do my part as long as I don't harm anyone else, but I also don't want a system that I'm very opposed to. A senator seems to represent. He wants to deny me and us who agree to have the arrangement recommended by the public health authorities and the World Health Authority. Politicalists at council, and I can quite maintain that viewpoint, would like to take this right from us to carry out such a rule. In effect, this right is to be taken away from us. I'm sorry we're set up like dictators when those who're forcing these changes on us are, in effect, doing exactly the same thing. And then talk about selling alcohol as a drug dealer - of course, it's a drug, but most of us are concerned that alcohol sales should be authorized. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We want to do so in the most reasonable way possible and in the best way possible for society, not for Bronson and Haggard and for those who are pressing these changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u241	A respectable president. I'm just too old to play the definition of words, but alcohol is drugs, and I'm never going to detract from the fact that it has dangerous drugs that are found in the market, legal, or illegal, if that is the case. It's not something I want to reason with. You can talk to your health - care providers about this. Hv. A senator speaks of him and his religious brothers and sisters as wanting to have this public health and freedom in that sense walking on that right. I don't believe that free people have the right to the community to be the way they like them, as individuals like to have them. I don't believe in the right of individuals to decide for everyone else how society should be. [[Up front.]] I believe that the community should be influenced as much as possible by its own values, but, of course, it's a nail we're talking about here and it's important to talk about. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Otherwise, I have a solution, a respectable president, who is that individual areas are enabled to decide for themselves what they want to do with the arrangement. Well, then I might. A senator chose his place of residence depending on how he likes it to be, and I could choose my place of residence by the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u242	Mr. President. Hv. A senator speaks a lot about himself being concerned about the consumer, good and good. Now, the other side of the neomed family can be the addict who is unable to control his drinking and all that goes with it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into where he thinks to draw the line of freedom from products such as alcohol, which in the bill is likened to consumer products such as tobacco and ammunition. Could he, then, in the name of freedom and the availability of consumers think about ammunition in store stores as well? Or can he go further? What about other drugs that have been discussed? Should it not be freedom to access cannabis and other substances if the line is being drawn so that it should be as much an offer and as free of such products?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u243	A respectable president. Today we live in an arrangement that generally forbids property, purchase, and the handling of illicit drugs called illegal drugs. In the long run, I'd like that to be permitted, yes, absolutely. I'm all for that as a long-term goal. However, it is a long-term goal, and it will be taken step by small bites and then again, as is the case with our drug policy in Pirates, that is just putting the consumer in first place. Whether to sell cannabis in stores is a question that is not even close to it. Now we fox ourselves with cannabistists. Now we take them and put them on criminal record, fine them, threaten them with imprisonment. Happily, we do not stand firm for that. But I don't like the way people are treated and would much rather see the importance of freedom there for the consumer. Yes, indeed. This issue, however, differs in nature because it is not a product that is punished for the use of people. That makes me feel different. But the answer is basically yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u244	Mr. President. I think it's very good for me to find out what Pirata's policy is in this situation, if that's the case. A senator is speaking for their policy. I may call for Pirats as a political party to recognize their policies on public health, alcohol, and their policy is that booze is flooding into every store for consumers so that they can be lazy enough not to drink alcohol at the right time. But, hey. A senator spoke of him as being fully involved in the responsibility of selling drugs, and then I believe that he is talking about the responsibility to live up to the high cost of alcohol and drugs abuse in the health system. How will he make sure that they do so? In what ways will he extract this enormous amount of money from his store to cover the financial cost that the State has so far had to pay? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u245	A respectable president. I can say what. A senator all about Pirata's drugism. It is about stopping punishing consumers who use illegal drugs. It's the foundation of everything. That's the first step. Then let us make a quick move on the subject of sale. That is not part of my mind, either of Piranha's, or any other member of the council, to my knowledge. But the fact that we punish people for the use of illegal drugs is morally out there and does not result in success in protecting their rights. However, there is another debate, a respectable president. There is simply another discussion because the arrangement for illicit drugs is not the same as when it comes to alcohol. There are other questions and freedoms in another sense. When it comes to Pirata's policy in this matter, we should ask ourselves, " What are the rights of the citizens? ' It is not the stated course of Pirata to accept this case. I'm here to vote with the bill, but if there's any argument from Porita's basic policy that somehow violates it, I'll take it for granted. But that is different from the question of illicit drugs. For us, it is not a question of who sells or scatters them or whether here to run alcohol or not. [[The president calls.]] When it comes to illegal drugs, the consumer should be no longer punished. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u246	Mr. President. Hv. A senator who was talking about culture and alcohol is clearly a part of culture and has always been, throughout history. If we think again 20 or 30 years, alcohol was part of Iceland's culture, and it is today. It's amazing to compare it. To me, this culture has changed, and I'm interested in whether or not. A senator agrees that the alcohol culture has changed much in 20 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u247	A respectable president. I think she's changed for the better. However, consumption has been increased. The past 15 years or so, the most important thing in my mind, has been blessed with youths. To me, the most important goal is to reduce teen consumption. Similarly, I want adults to be free and young people to grow up in a free world where they are equipped to make decisions in life, important and serious decisions. So the answer is: Yes, I think culture has changed. Likewise, I again drew attention to the fact that the beer was authorized here in 1989, and it was said that the consumption would increase, but no one wants to return to the ground. I notice the same predictions here. They believe that if this is authorized, it will never be possible to go back. I'm asking why not? Because people wouldn't want to go back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u248	Mr. President. I now suspected that this would be the reply of the senator. We agree that culture has changed for the better, but I believe that TVR plays a major role. The State has been running a course, and changing culture has been put into practice, so drinking is not a matter of getting drunk. TVR has really done its part in trying to channel alcohol into a different direction. I am most unlikely that the supermarket will continue on that course. I think the motivation there will be higher just to sell and sell as much as possible than to contribute to a higher alcohol culture in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u249	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator suffers from a degree of overfaith as to how the State knows how to govern culture. I think the state and we here at the General Assembly have very little understanding of the exact impact of our actions in general. Society is an overwhelmingly complex phenomenon. I'd rather have a positive trend in the wine industry because people can have more beer and drink it at night on bars, etc. There's more culture in it, culture from the public, not from around here. I just note that this trend is happening while sales are multiplying and the reality is greater. I have to say, I buy alcohol from time to time, and I don't know how to get any special warnings when entering a liquor store. It's just a store. True, she publishes brochures and such things, but I don't think that's why they're making better wine. I think better wine culture is because society itself has had the opportunity to develop and develop on its own. That is why I love freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u250	V.E.G. President. I'm a little nutty after a speech or something. A senator, who was very good. One of the things Pirantar strives to do, and it is a fine example, is to listen to public opinion. Among other things, they have done research on public wills regarding financial expenses. There's two things I don't understand about the language yet. Senator. First of all, I don't understand what he says about human health. People's health is a vital part of the health system that voters told the Pirates and all of us today that they were a key element of the budget, which is absolutely correct. Second, a survey said that a greater proportion of people are opposed to this change. Then I ask: Do the Pirantars stop listening to the nation, or is it just in this matter that they choose not to listen to the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u251	A respectable president. Freedom, in the form of democracy and individual freedom, is a matter of self - determination. I believe in him in this matter as well as in anyone else. When it comes to our drug policy, we well know that we disagree with more of our nation than that, because we view each individual's self - determination rights as being richer than the people's thinking that it should punish consumers, as an example, when it comes to illegal drugs. This issue is not decisive because use of drugs or alcohol is not forbidden, nor is it forbidden. So this looks different. I think it's a good thing for me to get paid nationally. I disagree, however, that you should be in charge directly by polls. We did these polls on basics because it's a more complex question and you don't know how to get it into a national bill to begin with. There is also a difference. People's health is not automatically the same as the health - care budget. I agree that we are expected to increase medical resources, but we pay for the health system by means of money, not by limiting freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u252	V.E.G. President. People's health is a natural part of this. After a few years, an increase in alcohol consumption, up to six gallons [4 L] a year, will enter the health system and will cost money. But because. A senator also spoke of punishment for the use of illegal drugs as well as punishment for overindulging in alcohol. If you take a man out here in the East, he gets a ticket. So it goes the same way. Actually, there was one thing I wanted to ask. A senator about, because he said, "The state is not supposed to make money on drugs. " Yes, alcohol is a drug, it's absolutely accurate, but it's not just the money of ATVR that goes into the state fund. It is the liquor, which is most of the price of the liquor we buy, which runs into the state funds, and may be the main income. Wants to play. A senator cancels his liquor because he doesn't want the state to make money on drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u253	No, a respectable president. As I mentioned in my talk, I would like all the alcohol to go directly to public health. I hope that answers the question. For these freedom/involuntary questions, there is a difference between the public health objectives and the means used for public health. Demographics are good goals, but they do not justify any method. Enrichment in health care is not the same as forbidding people to do something they want to do in their lives. These are two methods for the same objective, but the purpose does not sanctise. Despite human health, that does not mean that humans have an automatic reason to limit people's freedom when they can serve the same purpose to raise money to the health system as much as the majority of the public would like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u254	Mr. President. Once again, at the General Assembly, this drinking cup is being held. I think this bill is a lot of time error. I think it's the eighth time this case occurs before the council or the equivalent. I would've thought we'd have someone else to stop at the other side. Allegers rather than fight to put booze into camps, which in many places are responsible for total sales, shops, and importers. I would have thought that the problems were in many places like those in our health system, which truly lacks a lot of money. This discussion is back here, and it's been very informative, and it's done with evidence here today. Men speak for unbounded freedom, and others give strong reasons why we need a moral society to share our responsibility as a community. Today, we make a number of rules that we may not be aware of. Of course, we have laws and regulations that block the so - called freedom as well. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson speaks for. He speaks a lot about freedom, but freedom also comes with responsibility. Freedom too can be the death of someone else. As I mentioned here today, we are required to wear a seat belt. Should we have the freedom to determine for ourselves if we would take the risk of killing ourselves in a traffic accident? Should not the same be true of each individual's choice as to whether he would take that risk or not? We have a number of rules, traffic laws, and so forth that each of us can just think of every time and anywhere. You could bring a long list of everything as a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson needs to be here. Hopefully, he obeys the laws and regulations that society has established as a civilized society. It is very nice to always talk about freedom at times and then not talk about the responsibility that comes with it and the possible consequences of having uncontrolled freedom. We've had the arrangement so that the government's alcohol and tobacco trade has a patent. I think it's done quite well. No one is saying that drinking alcohol or drug abuse is preventing problems in our country. But as long as we allow alcohol to be legal, I believe this arrangement is best used to limit the damage caused by alcohol. I think it's fantasy, as the Specialist Party went on with Vimuus Iceland in 2000, but we can limit the damage to legal substances that we call so much. These cases have actually been won by a number of free partners over the past few years. The State has played a role in this by its public health policies and the governor's office. When we generals are challenged by this bill from 23 member organisations who are on the board for prevention, that we are not supposed to agree with it, and they count up a number of conflicting arguments for support, I feel very low in arguing that people should be able to think of, perhaps at nine o'clock in the evening, to get beer, but they can't go out to the store and buy beer. I'm just saying in Icelandic: How about that? I could have said that in English too. That's why I feel that this case is on my feet. There's an obsession with a short pants team in the Independence Party that's holding it up. I have been very disappointed by the political power of Pirata to be so close to home policy and liberal team of independents of this category for the money elements in the country that just wait to hit gold while the ATVR loses its patent license and they get to make money on many of the health problems that come from the medical system. Although I truly respect those opinions, I have been very disappointed in myself. I would have thought that Pirata's community responsibility in matters like this was more important, matters that affect the entire country, all families in one way or another. Indeed, the way we live about alcohol sales and the way policy has been done over the past few years has resulted in successful reductions in the alcohol consumption of Icelandic youths. It hasn't happened on its own. There is no way to say that although the number of NTVR branches has increased recently, it is because they have increased to the point that this prevention policy has been successful with lower consumption of alcohol consumption by young people today. It's a long way from here. Granted, branch offices have increased, but they have grown to the point where all the people of the country sit at the same level of access to this product, those allowed to partake of it and have their age to shop for it, that it is not just in the capital area and the largest regional standard available to drink. I feel that today I have presented so strong public health reasons against this matter that I'm going to take only the baseweight on it because it's also important. People have been hiding behind the fact that shopping at small places can see better times, can sell booze and alcohol, and it refreshes their balance account, and everything will be so inhabited by getting alcohol into stores. Today, alcohol is a reasonable bioavailability. I have not heard from the Americans in an ideal week or have heard one or another complain about not having enough access to alcohol. There haven't been any voices about it. If this goes like those who support this bill, and those who offer it, I'm sure that the price of alcohol will go up very high, especially in the country where the cost of transportation will go down. Today, the price of alcohol is the same anywhere in the country. I'm pointing this question to why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns' Gunnarsson: Is it not also the rights of the consumer to have the same price in the country as it is assured today? Is that not the right of the consumer? No, he shakes his head, he doesn't. Hv. A senator is only with the liberals, the market is for control, and there should be no equal in this or in anything else. Types of alcohol. Today consumers wherever they live are closer to a wide range of species and can be allowed to order the species they want. There is nothing lacking in the service that the ATVR has provided. They have been very strict in not letting them in the store to shop there because of their age. What a fine example! If you look back, I can see that we who live in the country have the opportunity to shop for some cheap bonus wine and do not have the potential. In fact, a senator and those living in the capital area have to jog out to 10▪11 at night and buy what pleases them because there will be nothing out in the country in smaller places in the afternoon. There's not going to be anything. Smaller shops around the country will not be able to afford to lie down with some amount of wine. There will be cheap box wine and some very few species to offer. We'll go back many years in this regard, and still there's enough now, I feel, the inequities between the region and the capital, although this is not added in the name of some kind of freedom, the lazy people to get a drink at the surly hour of the day. If this is the greatest evil that afflicts those who present this case to their people, then that is not something else to be concerned about, namely. if this is the priority. It seemed amazing to me. The minister of finance so low as to mention this matter in a discussion of the prime minister's policy discussion here in the fall. This is one of the priorities of the Independence Party at this council. How remarkable it is that humans are far away from what burns on the nation! I have to say right now, it's just sad. I'm not talking about the current policy of the Ministry of Health in Alcohol and Drug Control. It says that access to alcohol and other substances should be limited. Is this a goalless paper produced by men as their own policy? Alcohol is no ordinary consumer product. We must face all the problems of alcohol consumption. Fifteen percent of the population ever seek help because of alcohol abuse. There's no small number. Some 48 thousand people alive today will be tempted to drink alcohol at all the food stores in the country in one way or another. I'm not ashamed to be thinking things over and over again. I don't know how you should have brought up your children if you'd never been precarious. If we want a kingdom and a community, and we want to live as a civilized nation, then there is only one thing we'll agree to do to be careful. [[The president calls.]] In these matters, we should make it powerful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u255	A respectable president. I'd like to criticize, first of all, the last words. A senator and then what she said before, especially a word about me and my attitude and my party. Hv. A senator concluded his talk with us about the need to be prudent and asked how to raise children without being overly anxious. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, I don't think that's possible, but we're talking about children, not adults. There's a difference between adults and children, and that's what matters. When we talk about freedom, we are not saying that there should be no law and order. Listening to that speech will make you very tired. To explain why. A senator, because she says that she was disappointed that Piratars were dating the short-earned boys of the Independence Party, I'm going to read from Porta's basic policy, by permission of a president: ▪ This means that Piratars meet their policies in the light of data and knowledge, which is gained regardless of whether the proposal appears to be desirable or not at first. Pirata's view of ideas is independent of who her leaders are. It'll be worse, Mr. Honorable President, with permission: The other decisions of Pirata need to be able to reevaluate. It is not enough for us to listen to our political opposers. Rather, we tend to listen to them and even change our mind if it may stumble. A senator even more. No one here has spoken against the law of seat belts. No one has said that laws or regulations should not be valid; neither has anyone said that peoples have health and health matters. In my speech, I began to think that freedom is important, that health is important too. Good if I didn't say it correctly. But when we talk about freedom, it's not enough to have this black or white, all or nothing. Whether we are going to increase or reduce our freedom, we must do so on clear and objective grounds. We cannot go all the way either to freedom or to premeditated thinking. That is why we should build our language on a better foundation than that, to put words in the mouth of our political opposers, and to do much more than compare adults to children.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u256	Mr. President. My view is that alcohol disease is a health problem and that it is a disease. We have the problem, along with a number of other health problems, and I believe that we are not overly concerned with children but also with adults when we help them to get out of their problems and try to recover from their health, whether they are an alcoholic or someone else, we use various health - care options. Therefore, we also need frequent times, and we do so today, in one way or another. Hv. paritaprevir " He and his party listen to a grammatical argument, " I ask, "Why do you take it so hard? " A senator and his band failed to take note of 23 members who presented a challenge to us members of the Parliament? It says, by permission of the president: As assessed by the World Health Organization, alcohol consumption is among the strongest risk factors for human health. The financial cost of alcohol consumption, including alcohol consumption, is shown in many areas. For example, in the health, law enforcement and justice systems, the insurance systems, and the commercial systems. Not to be overlooked is the influence on individuals, families, and closer to society. For one thing, these 23 people, all of whom have been involved in the prevention of alcohol and drug abuse, believe that the decision to place alcohol in all stores is to fight against what they define there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u257	A respectable president. We listen to that argument. That's why I repeated in my speech, I'm pretty sure that at least once I did so, we should view this sect in a larger context than it was simply about freedom or human health. People's hearts are completely important, but they do not crowd out all that concerns their freedom. The fact that the matter was public health does not mean that all talk about freedom and self-sponsored rights is automatically total anal in which there are no laws and rules and everything is in place. It's not the case that's happened here. It is important to consider both opinions, yet to settle the matter according to some argument. Just as it doesn't mean going out completely into freedom, that doesn't mean that prescientism and the People's brain are a trumpet, as if freedom isn't a trumpet. This must always be considered based on what is available and what problem we are, in fact, working out. What I'm saying is that we should try to do both, we're both supposed to try to increase our freedom and keep on fighting with the prevention and the like, as we've been doing in the past 15 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u258	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator believes that democracy is not a trumpet, and he also claims that freedom is not a trumpet, nor does it outweigh people's integrity, which raises a question. It has been shown that we have gained a better grip on the problems of alcohol and drug abuse by means of the process of society. Why should we start rocking the boat when all foreign studies and the World Health Organization challenge Icelanders to continue their course and continue drinking in private sales? This arrangement has proved to be effective and points out the remaining four northern nations that have also had it. How vital evidence is needed to do so. A senator accepts them? Is it not enough for him to understand that this is a big, important argument, that has been demonstrated? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u259	V.E.G. President. My main concern is to say thank you. A senator for a fine talk that calls attention to the interests of scattered settlements and small settlements, as well as to having similar service in the urban area here. This has been an informative discussion of freedom and predestination, etc., and whether to weigh weight, deity or freedom. Various comments have fallen into the fact that we are less important to people who are good people than others, that is, the individual who is to shoulder responsibility for himself in all respects. I've thought the debate was a lot on the basis of the market freedom. In my mind, we are being taken away as a community of freedoms to have the arrangement we choose and that most of the country's population, according to polls. This includes the requirement that the system be changed across the public will, contrary to the wishes expressed by public health organizations, youth groups, and authorities and organizations that have these laws in accordance with the laws that we have set up. In other words, the organization calls for something other than marketism, and those who feel that they can make money on a changed arrangement may require something else. This is illustrated by the comments on this subject. There, on the other hand, the big shopping chains and the whole health system are virtually the same as they do. [[The president calls.]] So I come up here primarily to thank you. A senator for the emphasis she has set. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u260	Mr. President. Of course, I realize that there's a lot of politics in this case, and it's feelings. One down. A senator says it's just cold food, but I think it's normal that things get mixed up. The discussion is also designed to involve emotions because we also make decisions with our emotions, that is just the way it is. You have a sense of something, how they've worked and how they've evolved and weighed it together. It's cold reasoning, but it's also feelings for things. This is just what you do with so many things as a reasonable human being down here on earth. This is one of them where I think we should both use reason, emotion, and common sense. I took a look at some comments about this subject, including those of young independence. I think they're really past anything called the consequences of this bill, which is an increase in alcohol consumption. They support the bill for greater freedom of business. Of course, they should be speaking frankly about their being involved in this matter of increasing their freedom of business, the freedom of major merchants, and the importer. The consequences are ignored, any of these bites, and a little talk to society, saying that we are a community and a state of prescientity. [[The president calls.]] But who is left on the scene paying the balance, the consequences, the damage, and the effects on people's health? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u261	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. It's no wonder that this debate, which has been on a very perplexing and objective note here today, which has been reasoned, looked at studies and reports from abroad as well as from Iceland, is complex and should be. People and families who have been badly affected by Bakkus have rich feelings in this matter and are entitled to do so. With regard to the freedom of the business, there are only three parties who take care of this sale instead of one. It's all the freedom that's gonna be, I think. If we're looking at evolution in general, this is the world we're going into. Finally one, the highest. President, and I'll say in one or two phrases, that while the Independence Party has these statements, I've been told that a lot of people who support that category are very opposed to this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u262	Mr. President. You see, I feel the exact same way about that. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson that the members of the Independence Party are not very happy about this matter and that they are presented as priorities in relation to all that burns on people in society. It's not a good idea, as I and the senators now should have heard at the end of the week, that men are running their old flag one more time. I have the feeling that the voters of the Independence Party knew so much about this matter, and this is not to bring up the Independence Party. Rather, they are speaking to a core in the Independence Party, which may not be large but must somehow sign in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u263	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir I like Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's speech. Hv. Among other things, a senator introduced public alcoholism, which is good because we should be very clear when it comes to the rules and legislation regarding the handling of this product. Hv. Among other things, a senator discussed the limit to bioavailability. The bill we're discussing here is primarily about the changing sales arrangements, i.e. ... toextendthe government's monopoly on sale. We are not compromising the other restrictions and regulations that apply to sales. Our main concern is to change the arrangement to whether it is a public store and to give it a free or monopoly of the State. Of course, the State is to set laws and monitor this and follow its course. I miss the discussion that no more aspects of public alcoholism have been introduced. If we refer to the World Health Organization, often discussed in this discussion, there are ten points mentioned there. In a frequently quoted report, alcohol ◯ No ordinary consumer products are just one of the ten. There are a number of other factors, such as prices, taxes, and repairs for drinking driving, that are important. There's nothing to back up about. That's what I'm talking about. A senator does not agree that there is nothing to say about this unique aspect, that everything is going upside down here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u264	Mr. President. I don't understand. A senator, that with the bill it's against the State to sell alcohol? So I view it as against the State to sell alcohol, although it has been shown that having things in this way and while the World Health Organization suggests that it is good for us as a nation to pursue this independent course of alcohol. Let us look only at children in this regard. I find it forgotten that children are more often than not victims of increased alcohol consumption. Today, children are going to go shopping with their parents, and parents who are vulnerable to drinking for their children as well. Now, where wine is sold in the ATVR special shops, it is no exception that children go in there with their parents and there are restrictions. But if the arrangement is changed, parents who are weak for wine and who take their children shopping usually need to take their children to a liquor store. I think it's very serious that such an offer is being offered. Children's manager, in his comments on this matter, warns that this product is being installed in front of parents who are shopping in big markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u265	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Certainly I agree that there are two opinions in this discussion and in the reviews that addressed this issue the last time it was under discussion at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. That, on the other hand, is the public health agenda, or whatever. A senator came by here, and on the other hand, the business. In this discussion, we need to weigh the weight, the only change in public alcoholism and public health goals, and the national savings that we can achieve through this change in the arrangement or the growth in the growth that we can achieve in business management; we can. A senator did not see that national savings and promotion in business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-08-18.u266	Mr. President. I've got to feel bad. A senator by not seeing any national interest in this matter, but quite contrary to the fact that increased consumption will far increase the cost of our community's health expenses. Hv. A senator speaks of the growth in shops. I cannot give a discount on public health, health matters, and prevention of alcohol and drug abuse to those who are vulnerable and young people because of growth in trade. Are we really there more important than the fact that our business is making more money at the expense of our children and young ones regarding increased access to alcohol? I just can't believe it. There is a senator.
