ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u2	A respectable president. This is where we take a vote on the bill for the budget. It should be noted that more of the budget committees do not suggest changes in the bill between 2 and 3. So it does not come to votes on the part of the greater part, and the Senate document is here. The bill thus changed in a reading room, and we suggest that it not be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u3	Mr. President. A smaller section of the budget suggests adjustments in terms of the interest of the elderly and the poor. We do so because we have observed a misunderstanding in the discussion here. They're what they were. In 2015, officials who have expressed themselves on the subject claim that by an increase of 9.7% on January 1, recovery has arrived. The fact is, though, that at least 10.9% increased in minimum employment wages on May 1. The difference, therefore, between the lowest remuneration in the labour market and the elderly and the disability market is at least 260 you. K. in 2015 and it will not be replaced by an increase of 9.7% in the January 1 month period. There's a misunderstanding, and we give it what? directors have the opportunity to revise their minds by making the proposal a little different.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u4	Mr. President. There are no changes made on the part of the executives, as shown. But in the smaller parts, we certainly suggest and other angry ones to be improved from the ideal elderly and desperate in the hope of being seen by the government. As mentioned earlier, it is obvious that there is a major difference of opinion as to how percentages are calculated to micro-species and older citizens who do not stand equal or get more in their pockets, as shown in a financial memo. I do not truly believe that council officials here believe that the poorer and older citizens get more from their pockets than the lowest paid people in the country who are far too badly rewarded. Honorable House of Congress. You have a second chance here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u5	A respectable president. Here, a body of Congress has just a chance to reconsider its mind and do what is right. I encourage him to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u6	President. I didn't expect this proposal from my share to get a walk at the General. However, I find it important to note that it is expensive to be ill. It's expensive to be an invalid. I'm sad that a nation with a wealth of prosperity can't nurture and watch out for its citizens who have the worst and who live under the worst terms. I think we should take a careful look at the next funds and even the next funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u7	A respectable president. We're about to vote on the budget. Later today, we'll vote for the budget. The budget has significant increases in social security benefits. This includes the insurance policy negotiated on a general labour market starting on January 1, 2016. I'll focus on it, and we'll be thinking about how we'll be able to make sure that in the years that will continue to improve the insurance policy of a general labour market. This is in line with the resolution of the party council of candidates. I would also like to point out that the changes made in the budget are very relevant to groups of people who have mentioned from hand to hand. There is also 1 billion more in aging service to support those who are ill, are in the medical system, and are elderly. At the same time, significant funds are being put in service to disabled people. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we are then making a big contribution to those who have been least able to handle the rent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u8	A respectable president. Here we are giving more than one chance to come along to make the lowest pensioners as low as the minimum wage in the labour market. This cannot be done by bringing up the 1st of January, such as the winter. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir went over carefully. In addition, immediately on May 1 again, between the lowest remuneration and the tax pay will be paid by social security. If men stand by what they say, that they really want the benefit of these groups as the best, they come with us to this expedition and vote with our proposal. The proposal of the government here is to leave these groups behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u9	A respectable president. The third year in a row, we are voting on budgets, where hundreds of millions are spent in the tourism fund. This shows that the government is not able to handle the task facing the nation in the vast stream of tourists, so it needs a year after the fall of funds in this building. The inability to make plans, follow them, and make them decent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u10	A respectable president. In other words, there is a critical moment in the situation, in the ideal poverty and in the elderly, i.e. When the advice of these groups finishes their last meeting. It is this meeting that decides what home textbooks look like in Iceland's homes, about the next and next month's conventions, how it looks like a good day, how to give Christmas gifts, or how to react to events in everyday life. This is a step toward reducing poverty in Iceland, and I challenge the management team to take a good look at their minds right now on this last Christmas Day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u11	A respectable president. We now give the administrative part an opportunity to see that there is yet another hallway in which there is a retrospective rise in pensioners. We have heard amazing excuses from the board of directors discussing this matter, and the false claims are repeatedly pronounced. It's been said that pensioners will be equal at the end of the year. That's not true. It has been said that during annual increases, it is taken into account that there were increases in the payers on May 1. That's not true. There is no basis for opposition from the government in this case other than their firm resolve that pensioners should have less benefit than underpayers. That resolve has been confirmed in the talk of the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget, confirmed by the chairman of the budget board last night. It's the serious thing to draw up, that we live in a government that considers it its own goal that pensioners have less value than people at the lowest wage. This involves political policy. It's not pleasant, it's not justified, it's based on no reasoning, but it's shown in the government case. The opportunity now gives other members of the board, the members of the board, to show whether they will be on that team or on those who want to protect the fundamental point that pensioners have the right to equal equality with pay paid people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u12	Mr. President. A lot of what? The members of the board of directors have acted as if the ideal pensioners revolved around a certain percentage, ignoring the crowns and pennies available to these groups. It is the fact that large groups among pensioners have enormously low resources, provisions of less than 200 thoust. K. No matter how much we talk about 1 percent of that amount, they're still low. It is also true that these groups have not chosen their lot. It does not choose anyone to be an invalid. Although they do not choose to be old even if we want to be old, we also want to be able to live a decent life. The suggestion is that these groups receive repeated increases in order to improve their lives. That's what this is about. And while the sum is very high, I have often seen just the same amount of money going through these halls in a somewhat lighter way. [[The president calls.]] I'll say yes to this proposal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u13	A respectable president. Injustice is unjust; it shall be accepted late. This adjustment is for justice; it is that the elderly and the desperate have the same elevations as do others who have been raised by contracts or by the councils, such as the general council. I'm sure it's a matter of right and wrong. The budget bill expects unscheduled expenditures due to increases in government labour agreements. It would be easy to place it in the interest of money, but it is not taken for granted by the back - ups to the desperate and old - age pensioners. I think it's completely incomprehensible, so I beg the Senate to reconsider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u14	V.E.G. President. I agree with those who have said this is a matter of justice. This is a matter of answering the pleas of micromanagers and older citizens who asked us who have these matters to meet their demands. They have nowhere else to go. It's a call from more than they're calling for. It's actually a national appeal. Opinions have shown that more than 95% of the people want these groups to stand equal in these matters. I say as do others: I challenge the members of the administrations and the government to change their minds in this matter, and to provide such backward baloney. It would be a very good message for society today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u15	Mr. President. The social security laws were set so that the elderly and the poor could maintain their dignity and live a decent life. They weren't put to bed. Administrators could use the letter of law to keep this group of poorest people in Iceland. The same top one. Governments and the same. Council members who support votes against retrospective increases here to sensibilities and disability voted by raising the expenses paid by these same groups for training and using a tool and scraping with several hundred million in the state's funds. This was done for 2015 and is now to keep the group in even less favorable terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u16	Mr. President. The economic benefits of which the government provides a considerable amount of money does not return to all in a just way. The stability we are constantly discussing is about securing a decent standing and decent life for all, whether for older citizens, for microtudes, or for low wages. But the government is going to leave these people behind, and we are faced with the fact that much of them cannot make ends meet with the delivered. I'm going to quote the words of Prime Minister, by permission of the president: There are a large number of people who have suffered from abnormal impairment, e.g. Old citizens and poor people need to get their money done. [...] Iceland has enough resources, production capacity, and knowledge to make everyone well-being. For that, all it takes is a sense of reason to rule the country. A respectable president. This country's government is not making sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u17	V.E.G. President. It is a fine walk in the Icelandic economy that can be seen, among other things, in the budget where the government's income of goods and services increases by 6.6 billion. People have more money to spare, so they can have more time for them. But we who are the honour of a pensioner are not going to let them do this. This 6.6 billion is not to be used by the administrative body, which is the exact cost of our time payment proposals, comparable to that given by members of Congress, in order to improve the benefit of pensioners. To say that pensioners are to be paid less than the lowest wage is to make a political decision to leave the poorest seniors and micro-energy donors in poverty and inequities. [[The president calls.]] We at the government stand are trying to prevent this, and I encourage the members of the board to work against inequities and accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u18	President. Here's a vote for whether the elderly and the desperate should have the same quality as that of other people in the country. There are insults to all thinking people, and especially these groups, to say that an increase of 9.7% from January 1 is repetitive when talking about the need for 10% from May 1st of 2015. It is also offensive to all thinking people, and especially to these groups, to recite a number of budgets that will be next year but not to the extent that these people will be able to survive each month. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u19	A respectable president. There was a parable, saying, Do justice, do no wrong. It is now quite easy to see that this old song is lost and given to trolls. Today, directors have been given a second chance to right the wrong, with elderly and desperate persons receiving the same clauses as others from the same time. Given the cause, the promises made by the government groups have been made to older ones and micropunchers before the last election. The red theme shows fraud, and it's shocking to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u20	A respectable president. Today, we take counsel on a matter that has been in the progress of the council for six or seven years. Two governments have come up with this issue, two administrations in progress. It is a great deal of peace and satisfaction that this is about to become a law, for this is a matter of determining how matters about public finances will be conducted in the future. It's a lot of planning for a long time, but we're now aware of the budget. It has been a pleasure to lead this work as the chairman of the legal committee. I thank the board of budgets for their good work as well as for the members of the Committee and for all the guests who have arranged a budget. The matter remains the same between discussions like the first and the majority, and the smaller parts do not make adjustments for the 3rd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u21	Mr. President. As noted in the discussions on this matter, I think at least a lot of things are good at it, but it's a major flaw, and I specifically refer them to the 7th paragraph. and the right-hand economic policy, which will actually be legalized by accepting this bill. That's why we senators of the left movement, the green offer, will not support the situation. We do not feel that in this way political economicism is legalized, and our members will either sit with the vote or oppose the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u22	A respectable president. This situation has been handled over the last six to seven years by widespread political agreements, and it is important, since there is a need to improve the budget in Iceland, the problem of foundationing and securing greater legal discipline. We in the United States have made comments that certain financial regulations have been legally established by such narrow standards as in Article 7. The bill, and we'll declare it to votes at 2nd. that we don't think we're bound by the rule when we're in government. It is not natural that a government sector at one time contributes to political emphasis in the form of a financial rule that all should be bound by, and we leave the right to change it. On the other hand, we will vote with the bill for this advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u23	A respectable president. This bill is based on a better rule, a more disciplined practice, and a long - term thought that is like music to our ears in a bright future. That's why we support the bill. At the same time, we would like to remind you that there is not enough law and order but that there is also a need to apply it and to apply what the bill calls for. We have tried to discipline our budget, but this fall has proved to be another time when we have failed to keep our promise of improved employment. It's not big changes. These are very big changes, so much effort is needed to live up to the thoughts behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u24	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to congratulate the nation that we are here to legalize this bill, which will without doubt be the biggest and most important law in this autumn council. This involves discipline, long - term thinking, and responsibility in government matters and public finances. But it's true what's happened here, it's not enough to legalize, practice needs to follow what it says, and it's not just a problem. The general body also holds the media and the rest of the media. In view of the discussion that included all the high value in the budget now, I think we are far from the goals we set out in this bill, and there is a pretty good cross - political agreement. [[The president calls.]] It's better to do, but congratulations on these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u25	V.E.G. President. As we have discussed on this matter, I believe it to be the most inexorable, as the World Bank and the concept of moneyism have subsided. A general body is placed under strict financial supervision but less given for the civil rights and legal commitments in this subject, e.g. Act on patient rights and rights of the homeless people. There'll be no surveillance. I remember as a health minister who worked under the supervision of the World Bank Fund that I was never asked about the impact of cuts into the health institutions of the country, only on the importance of surgery. This cutdown was thought, not primarily by the AGS to achieve financial balance, but to reduce the overall consumption of the welfare community and make it permanent. It's in the spirit of Iceland's Business Council. And there's gonna be a town where we'll have reason to make a big toast and celebrate like a boy. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson is already getting ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u26	Mr. President. I'm glad we're putting up a bill on public finances. It will set us up a work programme, both us and the executives. We need to make changes in our habits and habits, and that is why we felt that a financial committee was important to try to discuss a mutual decision. It did quite well, but when it came to the financial rule of 7th C.E. and the rules around her failed, for the rule had not gone through the consultation process that began in November 2011, as did the rest of the articles in the bill. But I'm celebrating it, and I'm telling you, like the chairman of the United States to 7th C.E. will be changed when the opportunity arises.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u27	Mr. President. Public financial independence is a prime objective of the State's financial policy. However, rather than looking to the international definition that deals with social and environmental factors, this government chooses to look only at sustainability from economic factors. Left green wants the integration of these three factors to decision-making as soon as each generation is referred to as not living at the expense of others. 7. G., financial order, is unacceptable and is new and was not being discussed during the last term. There is room for the use of the government's means of life to sound economic management and balance, too tight. The 30% criteria are not based on international criteria and can be identified as the Maastricht Convention. As a whole, financial guidelines have been noted not to help with economic management during the runoff period or in the event of an imbalance but may be unnecessary to work on the consequences of the contracting process. It is clear that it will change in the future, as has been attributed here. I think a lot of things on the bill to improve the general government of the state of government, but to get along with it, it would have had to adapt to the changes we left on the green. [[The president calls.]] So I'll be sitting by the vote but I'm not at 7th degree. In particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u28	A respectable president. I believe we're taking a very big step in creating a budget in the spirit of the 21st century by means of that bill on official financial matters. In particular, I would like to point out the article that makes it necessary for the budget to be available in computer-reading forms that make all comparisons much easier and much more readable and will make it easier for all the budgets. It hasn't been so far. Basically, I'm very much in favor of the bill. We should have done all this a long time ago. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The secretary of finance, happy with this work and the fact that we are about to accept the laws on public finances. Work on the law began during the last terms, and we in the advance group supported her with a complete mind. I'll admit that I was surprised that the changes wouldn't go through them. As soon as I'm happy about this, because I believe this will contribute to improved work practices, increased discipline, and firmness to the fiscal arrangement, I want to point out that in the last government, the so - called museums were transferred from the legal entity to the recruitment process, and that was a mistake. That was a big, big mistake. A financial committee has now taken back one of them, which is good, but I would like to say that if it turns out later, we need to change and correct these laws, I will. [[The president calls.]] Just as mistakes were made during the last term, we must not overpower the authority of counsel. The government is supposed to be at the General Assembly, but I'm glad we're accepting the bill here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u30	A respectable president. The Pirata House votes with the bill. I'd especially like to mention and celebrate the final verse of verse 16. dealt with the printing of a database of the budget of the budget for computerized formats. I have explained how important it is and have it developed before the release of the next bill for funding, I have to say that I am looking forward to working with it, assuming that it will further use others in the community to have a better perspective on how the budget works, what is in the bill, what can be changed, and with what result. I'm so happy and thank you very much. The budget for taking into account the viewpoints observed in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u31	A respectable president. I'm so glad we're finishing this matter at the council. This is a stage in the process of making more of the money. This new bill highlights long-term thinking and policy. We make a great deal of demands on the board, to the recruitment process, which will take place. There will be an increasing strain on the budget, along with the budget of long - term policy barriers in individual litigation groups. With regard to financial rule, it has brought great benefits to others. If you look to the countries where things are right, it is usually characteristic of those countries that they have financial rules. We've set such financial guidelines for Iceland's rural communities. It has also proved to be a wonderful experience. The financial rule has become the norm. It is widely recognized in local affairs to refer to the financial rule of success or failure. [[The president calls.]] We in Iceland should bear in mind that we have one of the greatest equations found in Europe. We've got a problem at the concierge gate. This is not done by setting a rule such as this in order to deal with the basic problems of the financial debt. Those who proclaim that they will change this rule are proclaiming that they will appear here before the council and later say: "Let us owe more, let's run the state with more angle than the law says. [[The president calls.]] I'll always protest it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u32	President. I put it here yesterday that I'm on notice of this bill. This is because of doubt about the need for 1st paragraph. So I'm going to sit next to her. Other than that, I support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u33	Mr. President. As we know, we are what we are. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir to become the same person and here I could repeat her warning almost unchanged, i.e. My target is 1... which is about the volume rule outlined here in the discussion. Other than that, I support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u34	A respectable president. Yesterday, I spoke in a long way about this so - called volume rule. It's pretty consistent. The 34th bill that I laid out in the fall and that has not been discussed. I'm not comfortable with the fact that, in this order, real estate sales are not being taken into account for further reviews. It is based on 40 - year - old laws, long out - of - date, and out of touch with something else in this rule. I'll let myself have a vote with this, but I'd like the bill to be discussed in the spring council. I'll say yes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u35	President. I thank the U.S.R. for finishing this case, whatever the case may be. Yes, it is clearly well, and I am very happy that after 12 years we will be able to validate a very important optional book making on a United Nations Convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment, called the OPCAT method. I hope we have a very good look at how this is going to be done. I thank all members of the council who have shared in making this possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u36	A respectable president. I agree with them. A senator who spoke earlier and congratulates us on having to validate this account. Better late than never. In this context, I also encourage governments and the General Assembly to validate the rights of disabled people on the very first. We want to do well in human rights. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u37	V.E.G. President. I'm happy that there has been a great body of agreements on this matter, since, of course, at the Allied Council of Iceland, to validate books on such important matters as preventing torture. I think it's important to say to these releases that it's fun to see so much of the Parliamentary papers, where more of all committees are united in supporting the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u38	V.E.G. President. I share in happiness wishs, but I stress that our happiness is not meant to be in the form but in the content. We worked on this case during the last term, and I know that this case is still being handled by the State Department of the Interior. current Minister of State. What has been happening in this regard is not the will to make sure that Iceland does not practice torture or that prisoners or others who are deprived of their freedom are subject to inhuman treatment, but that the founded monitoring factor is not yet there. However, this work is being done. I want to emphasize that this case is not being born today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank the High Council for bringing this matter to a conclusion. I think this payment must prove that the Council is not a corrupt institution, as many think. We can do good things here on a solid basis, even if the initiative is not necessarily from the administrative point. I want to congratulate not only the high Council and the inmates of the country but also the way the General has dealt with it. That is fine, and as we look to the future, let us look back to that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend an extension party to a greater proportion of the budget board. Under the committee's opinion, you'll write to me as well. Councilmen of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Daðason Eminundon, Haraldur Benedict son of Benediktsson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir. The committee has discussed the bill after it returned to her after the second. December 17th. The members of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs have visited the Commission, as well as representatives from the State Reexamination and the National Bank of Iceland. These people have overstepped the government's budget for the release of capital stocks on income and financial expenses. The government's budget emissions programme is now still going into effect, since crews have agreed to a bill for broken-down agreements due to the three largest banks and a vast part of the development of more than the 3rd bill. has to do with that plan. The cover of the committee's view is a tablet that reviews the impact and what actually falls under stability. It is to form free money of 17.2 billion, inexpensive property in crowns of up to 17 billion, in county of 28.5 billion, in treaties in foreign currency of 14.9 billion, in terms of capital gains of less than 2 billion, 95% holdings in Iceland banks up to 18.7 billion, and financial bonds in Acquirement at Aron Bank of 84 billion. Then there's another effect on stability, 17 billion in minus the decrease in bank taxes due to the population of fences and a total of 3. stable donations that go on the income side of the state's budget of 338.9 billion, a respectable president. As a result, for the first time, the total income of the state is over 1. Billions at the base of the network, exactly 1,041 billion. Overall, more than 340 billion dollars are included in proposals. and cost of more than 4 billion at the base of business. It is estimated that the total income, as I did earlier, will be over 1,040 billion, and the cost will be over 695 billion next year. Without stabilisation, income will be over 700 billion and cost 693.6 billion. In view of only 6,7 billion dollars, a planned business change is expected. The greater part highlights the need to make sure that stability efforts will be fully spent on subsidies of the state's debt and will pay particular attention. In any case, this plan and plans must not be violated and referred to in this discussion in the members of the greater section of the 2nd Environment. Noting the increase in pension debt and the impact of the elderly on health expenses, it was noted that there was an increase in pensional commitment and the influence of the increase in the number of elderly. A significant decrease in the debt of state funds is the prerequisite for a longer-term sustainable budget. We're here making a special suggestion for funding on the income side of the budget because of a stability proposal total of 348 billion next year. Other contributions also affect several other income groups. It has the highest volume of 17 billion. the income of a planned bank tax that goes down, as it is now assumed that all the large swellings of the bank will be successful in paying stability instead of taxation. Another effect on the income side is the rise in interest rates where government funds earn all the money in Iceland Bank. and increase in interest, where the state's funds also receive bonds owned by Ribalbus, with a bet at Arion Bank. The result is about 1.5 billion. increase in income from a tax paid by the state's fund, but it has no effect on the whole living, where the same amount comes to pay from the state's budget and zeros it out. As long as I can remember, it is right to assume that the banks that the state is now receiving this operation will be hosted in the State Bank Office. Other assets that the State receives through the payment of this stability flow into Iceland's National Bank of Possessions. To put the active 6 gr. the contents of the pack by the end of the month 3rd. Funds have been dropped, but since then, because the legal basis for the UN Society's holding organization is not quite strong, and the secretary of finance has already provided a bill at the council that strengthens the legislation around this building. A meeting has been made between the councils to speed up this matter and that it will be the law at the beginning of February, at least In time, let's say, for it's not yet time for the state to accept these assets. On the other hand, everyone's will is that the outside of the government's belongings be built on a strong legal foundation. The pay-off is not expected to be influenced by any other effect on stability returns than the above-mentioned capital tax paid by the state fund. In the bill itself, a reduction in interest of interest due to the financial payment of the state's deposit was expected to reimburse the Federal Bank of Iceland. However, a suggestion is made about four other changes to the remuneration side. First of all, a proposal is made about 1,096 million. K. raise the budget of the rural budget, but the change is twofold. We make this suggestion to fulfill our agreement with rural society on the affairs of disabled persons, for there has been a disagreement between the local community and the state after transfer of the Party to the local community on how much the state should be brought into that group. What a joy it was that this arrangement was reached just before Christmas! This is now the time to reset it with this adjustment. Secondly, we're going to suggest 1st. Millions are making temporary contributions to the Hospital to increase the patient's resources, especially those who do not have to stay in the emergency departments of the Land Hospital. Thirdly, we're going to propose a 250 million. K. contributes to the maintenance of housing for the Hospital. A total of 3rd passes into medical procedures. 1,250 million, and how happy it is, for the government of the government! The prime minister of Jehovah's Davíð, Gunnlaugsson, has always put health matters first. Fourth, a suggestion is about 175 million. K. temporary contributions to the State Radio to promote production of acting Icelandic TVs and national programs of independent filmmakers. Here are three more adjustments that relate to all the stability initiatives. A new format of Article 1 and 2. budgets so that various joints will be shown both by and without stability. This is so that those who read and who are interested in the financial affairs of the State can better see what is meant. There are new definitions, which are greatly improved in order to see how the stability proposals will enter Congress documents and later be transferred to state accounts. We also contribute to that change of 5th suit. in addition to new numbers where financial and economic ministers will be authorized to borrow up to 200 billion dollars. or the equivalent of that amount in a domestic or foreign currency to enrich the currency exchange. It seemed necessary. This number was higher when the proposal came to the budget. It became an agreement to take it to 200 billion dollars. and I remind you this is only allowed to intervene if necessary, security clearance. If it is not used or not fully used, it will fit into budgets for 2016 as a minus number. In the chart on the stability framework of the table on page 5. 1 The commission shows that although large amounts of money are included in the donations, most of them will not be at their price immediately. The next year, free money is just over 41 billion, which will be arranged to pay off debt next year. It is thus not expected that next year the debt of state funds would drop beyond the fact that the funds due to the reimbursement of the Federal Bank will be paid up in the year. Its posts at the end of 2015 are estimated to be about 90 billion. The majority stress that the implementation of a budget will continue to be carried out in terms of prices so that property items will be sold in the years ahead and that all sales will be guaranteed to reduce the debt of the state. The government budget is covering a far greater scale than the proposed budget for 2016. In addition to the stabilisation process, increasing recovery of Iceland's National Bank on Upstate Refining can be estimated to be about 81 billion. That way 30 billion can. The weight - loss tax paid by broilers was reduced by negative tax subsidies. The total pay to the public is estimated as a total of 495 billion dollars. In addition, there are further counter measures planned and are estimated to be a total of some 660 billion. There are large and large amounts of money, but the overall impact of this government action is then some 660 billion. The majority of them call attention to drawing back 2nd round. proposal 13 million. K. As a result of lower housing costs, the financial resources of the office increase to the actual value of last year's commission. This allows for an even greater scope for taking initiative on the part of the office. We stress that we are going to fail to make this suggestion, and it comes in here, and we suggest that it will be approved and that in the coming year we will have to formalize financial relations between the Generals and the office of the General Agent. This involved some strange transactions in which the General Assembly is at the facility in which the U.S. Marshal is currently in charge. The Commission was assigned to pay stock costs, but it has come to an agreement that these matters will be reviewed and restored. On page 18. 4, 5, 6 and 7 give explanations on both the side of the income and the adverse effects. This is part of it. Here is a special consideration of the Kingdom News; here is a special discussion on the payment of legal services to disabled persons; here is also the discussion and a special section on the County Fund for the Reassessments I went over at the outset; here is a special section on the maintenance of the Land Hospital and a special section on the flow problem of the Land Hospital. But I'm only going to make the State Radio part of this talk. Other committees will talk about other chapters to be said. There's a suggestion about 175 million. K. a temporary contribution to the state radio hf. to promote a national program. This is not a change in the radio fee. It is a contribution from the government fund. The budget shall be protected in order to increase the purchase of the Kingdom News on materials from the independent national producers. During the current year, the price to buy is estimated to be about 450 million. K. and that amount is expected to be 625 million. K. next year. In view of the greater part of the 2nd. in 2015, it was concluded that a budget committee has not received satisfying answers on the business of the community and that the Minister's Committee on State Money had not agreed with a management programme, a requirement for the RUS to obtain 181 billion. K. The funds and the payment of the company would be paid. The majority expect this to change in the coming year, pointing out that with renting houses and other economic activities, the Government Radio has responded to business problems. Cabins can study about 60 million. K. In addition to sales of construction rights, a debt that could be reduced by some 1,500 to2,000 million would be reduced. The majority consider it to be a very positive development, and it encourages the government to inspect the Public Radio Network in the context of communication systems to achieve the most practicality. The greater part of the report shows that a special temporary budget for the national programme of the Kingdom broadcast is a more competitive state of the nation's illuminating systems. Therefore, it is essential that the Ministry of Education and Culture establish a future policy for the growth of national programs in general, where all the media are at the same level. It must especially be considered whether it is wise to set up an independent program fund to promote domestic programs that would become largely financed by a radio fee. The majority feel that from a cultural point of view it is important to promote national programs, both radio and television, and that the legislatator can guarantee it without increasing the cost of government funds or the increase of pay paid on individuals and legislators. At the same time, it is necessary to promote equality in the media market and contribute to the distribution and variety of programs. The majority also refer to the Ministry of Education and Culture that in the new Ministry Service Convention and the State Radio, there will be a staging strategies on the basis of a program during the contract period. At the same time, I remind you, the 2nd. was approved by the majority of the proposals to provide 60 million for the State Radio where more currency turned out to be in budgetary programmes. Now more than 200 million are being added to Our Kingdom News, and it is the hope of everyone here that the work that has been going on and that the company will lead to success and make a successful decision for all of us. A respectable president. I'll make it my suggestion that any adjustment proposed by the majority shall be adopted in vote 3rd. and, finally, thank you again for your good work as well as for the staff of the Committee for much patience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask her about the State Radio for a minute. We've got 175 billion in here. K. The conditional contribution, which is about 60 million. That's really the part the government fund was going to keep because today's entire radio bill runs to the State Radio. So it should've gone for the law anyway. But I didn't mean to talk about it. I want to discuss these 175 million. Have they been prophesied by the senator? All I'm worried about is the negative market of the road type's own money, as we know. This actually seems to be a loan to the State Radio. Does the senator understand the need to reimburse or move in the same way that is in the Road Building? There's no other entry. [[The president calls.]] How is this moving in the Book of State? I wonder because I'm worried that it'll be negative about the Kingdom News next year again. This is beyond the limits of income.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u42	A respectable president. This is moving like other contributions made by the fund to make a suggestion that this proposal will be accepted. This is a temporary donation that is being implemented for the development of VOLV to promote Icelandic filmmaking. I don't even get in on them. I'm not even thinking about how RIV's going to spend that money. RUSH is the center of the program. I think this is a very positive step. Yesterday, a very interesting report came from the industrial minister on the scope of the film industry in Iceland. This industry here has a positive economic effect, but it's like all the other contributions the capital makes, it's a transition operation, and it's just going into RUS's business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u43	Mr. President. It is as if the contributions made by the Road take single action. Like what? A senator knows that we've talked about it, but that doesn't change the fact that there's more money than market money, and it's gotten to be a negative of its own. I'm really worried about this. I'd like it to be investigated because the radical contributions there have been made. Nothing confirms to me in this operation that it will not be that way. These are kindly comments because I want this to be checked carefully. I see that a minister here whispers to the chairman of a legal committee, so he directs them to the point that they have all their senses open and wondered how the Constitution intends to move these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u44	A respectable president. I'll say again, it's a temporary donation to RUS. It's not a loan to RUSB, as it is in Vega's case. [[Up front.]] It's a temporary donation. Congress can make these decisions, and then, of course, it's coming into the dark side of the Government Radio and Create on the State Fund. I would also like to remind you that the council adopted public financial legislation just before noon. They contain largely market incomes and that each case will receive a donation from the state. That's exactly what they asked them at a congregation meeting with a budget committee in the week on how they would do it. RUSH falls under the 19th figure of that bill, and that's when it receives a national donation that is determined by a minister of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u45	Mr. President. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator wrote that 1 billion are going to the Hospital. However, when the adjustment is considered, it is suggested that 1 billion go to aging institutions in general. I want to pray. A senator is going through this a little bit. There is no place to receive elderly ones who have been at the Land Hospital. We know this, but I ask, What advice is there to take in 2016? Is that a place to live? How will this crisis be solved? Is it not true that there are 1 billion non-surgents left because of more patients in 2016?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u46	A respectable president. Of course, the decision to make this contribution is made in cooperation with the director of the Land Hospital. The order of the health - care minister is to have this implementation, for as we know, there are too many beds in the Land Hospital for people who are supposed to be in a different area of the medical system. I asked the exact same question at a meeting yesterday, asking if there is any of the resources, whether or not the Land Hospital could be cleared quickly and effectively. The answer was yes. There is a plan that has already worked, that money is making a quick and effective contribution to the Land Hospital so that it will be better to carry out its role as a national hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u47	Mr. President. We need to review these practical matters, how this will be done, but the problem remains, which is more patients at the hospital. All plans for State Radio have been made in line with the promise of a minister on the same radio fee. This is where more of the part contributes to 175 million. K. add 450 million. K. which are already present in this joint. Is it more part of the budget to tell the State Radio that this team can't be cut off from what is happening this year? It has been observed that the National Focal Points need to make new plans based on less budgets and, of course, will cut the production of domestic materials. But is the major part of saying we can't cut down the already existing 450 and the remaining 450 million plus 175? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u48	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. We propose about 175 million into RUS to participate in a national program. The committee's opinion shows that it is fact that in the current year, prices are expected to be bought for some 450 million domestic products. TRUST, of course, has plenty of space to cut down there. If you have to take a cut at RUS, you will find managers out of it, but the millions we make up for a national program, since the main objective of the RUS is to take care of Icelandic material. Today, for example, there are emphasises on foreign child material. I'm not taking the program with RUS, but these 450 million are used here in the Commission opinion to show how strong RUS is and to be good at the role of producing and buying Icelandic material. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u49	A respectable president. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator believed that there was a greater part of the legal committee that a national program could be extended without cost increase. Now it seems that this view does not conflict with the attitude of the government of the State Radio. So I must ask. A senator's conclusions are based on what this conclusion is about. There is also the need for emphasis on the use of VOLV now to increase the subject of childhood material, domestic material, and national service in the country. These are all expensive mails and must be the first thing that lands under the cut-off knife that has already proved not to be the will of a greater proportion of legal committee to make RUS enjoy a regular radio fee. That's why I'm asking. Council: What is the claim that national programs can be expanded without cost increase? And how, then, will the majority of the legal committees react to the inevitable child material, domestic programs, and national services in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u50	A respectable president. Just to be said, more part of the budget isn't a RuV. It's an independent ohf., with a partner in charge, and she's employed by the manager so that the budget doesn't have the fingers in the way RUS comes about in managing its business. To the bottom of the box, see the accompanying box on page 5 of this magazine. 5 reports from a major legal committee that we direct to the Ministry of Education and Culture that in the new Ministry and Society contract all of these things will be required. This must be a discussion in the service contracts that are currently available to cover the year - to - year costs, on the basis of these emphasis, on the society, and for the good of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u51	A respectable president. Well, I guess I understand why. A member of the Parliament, so that it is the main purpose of the State Radio to bring in a cut-down form, which we all know will be the most expensive of the teams I listed in the past, the services to children, the country and national programs, and then a service contract that states that the service of children, the country and national responsibilities and the more part is ready to be financed so that there will be additional funds when the service contract is submitted to the council? It would be nice to get an explanation. All I can see is that the administration can't respond to the cut-offs unless it's done to paediatric, national and domestic services because these are the most expensive factors. If it is placed specifically in the New Year Service Convention, is the more part willing to finance it with additional donations after a year's annual contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u52	A respectable president. I feel like the senator starts with the wrong end. First, we decide the financial frame we make here at 3rd. ... abundant. Within that financial frame, the highest will be done. The Secretary of Education and Culture and the Board of Government Radio Service. The Service Convention must fall within the framework of the 2016 budget, but not vice versa.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u53	V.E.G. President. Hv. The head of the legal committee says that more of the legal committees do not operate the State Radio. It's just as far as it goes, but it doesn't go too far because the budget and financial resources at the General Assembly are directing the budget of the State Radio, and it sets up a frame for the State Radio. I'm not in the book exactly, but I've been listening for emphasis. According to U.S. government officials, the business is in irons, to keep seawater in its present state, a contribution is needed. They're cutting it down. On the other hand, a majority of the legal committees say they want to promote national programs in the hands of a private agency outside the U.S. Radio. That's what I'm thinking. There's something I'll come to in my second answer. [[The president calls.]] I'm still asking right now. Hv. The chairman of the Committee said that there was a place to set up a special program fund, funded by radio fees. Does this mean, then, that she sees the possibility of raising the radio charge? Or should a radio bill be taken to the State Radio to set something else up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u54	A respectable president. The senator finally asked a question; otherwise, it was more meditation. Of course, the most important arrangement in this country would be that RUS has only special funds as minister of education and financial ministers at a time in terms of the size and framework of the Agency. There must be enough money to ensure that the frame is filled with what is expected to be its State Radio. I also see that once we've gone a little further into a better period of government funds, it's going to be a powerful fund for everyone to apply. Then I'm also talking about the U.S. National Radio Contestants, who don't get state donations so that these funds will be given on equal ground. [[The president calls.]] There are thoughts about that in the committee opinion that I'm asking the senator to examine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u55	V.E.G. President. I will find this further in my next speech, but I do not agree in itself, for it may be a desirable goal that a program fund financed a domestic program for all stations. But we have the State Radio and a special radio bill. I decided earlier that the chairman of the Committee said that she saw that this radio fee would be taken to finance this fund. Since everything goes down in the same direction, I feel that both the conditions set for this budget and these future concerns will reduce the ability of the National TV itself to produce international programs. This has been debated for decades. I have been very skeptical and opposed to efforts to reduce the production capacity of the state's own TV. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u56	A respectable president. The commission shows that VOLV is already buying from these stakes 450 million. That's really something to make you feel stronger. VOLAND does not make all its ingredients. We are very happy to do this to strengthen both those in this industry and those in the United States. The variety of material must then be more. There are some very good things RUV buys from national sources and shows on television. It takes Icelandic movies for shows at Christmas and Easter and buys the rights. The film industry is about to burst out with full force in Iceland, and foreign people have come to it as well as because of the reimbursement. A financial committee put in their first year of work 450 million to the top of Iceland's Film Fund. Governments are very eager to do well in this business. [[The president calls.]] It's just a future mouseman, a respectable senator, whom we put in the commission, and I say again that more of the legal committees are in no way to interfere with the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u57	Mr. President. I recommend my share of the legal committee. The minority criticize the tax system changes that lead to a lower income of government funds. The number of taxes is reduced from three to two and so the smaller fraction is not agreed. The progressive income tax system contributes to an increase in social equations, and this is in part regarded as very important. There are many economic signs and symptoms, therefore, it is impossible to reduce income taxes at this time. In addition, there will be 5.5 billion dollars. the next year because of these changes. At that time, the government has reduced fishing costs from the start of their becoming the source, the removal of major property taxes, and the total energy tax paid by the industry. The 2016 budget reduces the growth rate of state funds from year to year for the first time from collapse, to the end of the stability that will be overlooked in this respect. It clearly shows a lack of government control. The minority feels that the improvement in social security should be accompanied by an increase in minimum wage, now that cutbacks especially come to those with less salary. Counts it to be 69th pars. pricing on social security has been put to protect the groups of men who are paid in pensions and not to keep them in all the lowest wages. Now, when minimum wage increases proportionally more than any other salary in this country, there is a fair requirement for improving social security as a result of this trend. At the same time, the smaller portion has suggested that the elderly and the poor get their terms restored from May 1, 2015, as a collective labour agreement is expected. An example is the case with collective agreements in 2011, but there was an increase in the middle of the year, not a year - long wait. The lowest pay takes place again on May 1, 2016, and the ideals of the elderly and the desperate should also take into account the increase and must be expected in financial matters. The smaller part contributes to the change in the course of change. Clearly, the land hospital's position is very narrow, and the smaller part is concerned about her and the poor health - care situation. The need for services at the National Hospital is estimated to increase by 1.7% annually due to the increase in patients. As a result, hospital stress increases each year. An increase in the number of patients in budgets to the hospital is not expected and is equivalent to a cutoff of about 1 billion. in 2016. There are still unsolved issues between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Health for calculating recent medical watch contracts. There's a quarter of a million. K. Hospitals are in trouble. The lesser part severely criticizes the fact that there was no solution to this dispute for financial recovery. The 2nd. Fundamentals gave the more part the suggestions of the sum of 1.4 billion dollars. for the maintenance of the home of the Land Hospital. Now, a larger part contributes to the maintenance of 250 million. K. While there is a positive result of listening to suggestions and speaking the smaller portion, the amount is far too low. The land hospital's management budget is unacceptable, and it is urgent that a new Hospital project be submitted as soon as possible. The minority also expresses concern that the seasons hospital will not benefit from patients who should. There is a need for review of the agreements between the hotel and health insurance so that the hotel is actually useful as a means by which the National Hospital can rely. The revised proposals of more than one section of the budget respond to the smaller demands of the Generality to improve the state of the Hospital, but more is not enough. That patients can't graduate from the hospital because they don't have another house where the hospital has been called the efflux crisis. The financial resources needed to meet the challenge will certainly improve the situation, but it is far from solving the many problems the hospital faces. In addition, the billion that the greater part contributes, not to the hospital, but to aging services in general. The problem of the Land Hospital remains unsolved and is left to the hospital by the increasing number of patients. The minority is opposed to further reductions in radio charge. It is the assessment of the management board and the directors of theUV that there will be no longer any better economics for the current service, for in recent years there has been tremendous improvement. Clearly, the reduction of the budget requires significant cuts and changes in the role of the Agency. The minority suggests that the 2016 radio rate will be 18,370. but it's a regular 2015 radio charge, as well as a bonus. The rest of it makes a suggestion about 175 million. K. a temporary contribution to further the production of acting Icelandic material produced by moviemakers independent. With the motion adopted, a service agreement is instituted with the State Radio, and the Council is actually taking over the program. All plans for business have been aimed at a minister's promise since April. ... ona noncombat radio charge. There is now the possibility that the promises did not support the government and that a minister has promised them in his sleeve. Therefore, plans need to be made according to a lower radio charge. In 2015 the cost of a new bargain contract is 250 million. K. as well as an increase in cost, an additional 400 million cuts are needed. K. in 2016. This situation does not change with the suggestion of the greater part. The minority severely critical of much of the attack on the State Radio and makes it more important that in Iceland a powerful public medium is fired with the clear holding of the nation, who is also independent of stakeholders. Then there is no doubt that the Minister and the Council will bring the State Radio into this position by allowing the case to push until the last day of Congress in the year. An agreement between state and rural society has taken place, which includes the final conclusions of financing the community service with disabled persons under the legal law on the litigation party. The report of the Project Management Board on professional and financial assessments of the transfer of the group to the countryside is available. State and rural society's arrangement for financing the community's services to disabled people is twofold. On the one hand, there will be a transient increase of 0.04% in the response rate of rural communities set in 2014 as part of the maximum response of the rural community, resulting in 1.24% of the target to the seminary. On the other hand, there is an increase in the growth of contributions in rural Slocation Fund as a share of the tax of state funds. These changes are estimated to result in an increase in donations for the services of disabled persons from the local community of up to 1.5 billion. every year. The smaller critical factor is that when the amount between rural partners divides, only 80% depends on the need to support it, but 20% is left to the rural population. This means that rural society, which is worse off, will be less vulnerable to its share. There has been no agreement on the personal aid of user - controlled, short - meaning MPA, with disabled persons. This type of service increases the ability of users to live independent lives. Since this service is suitable for this service, it is to be as fair as an alternative to other services. The memory is critical that the 55 people who negotiate the MPA agreement now have uncertainty about their future and encourages the immediate completion of their current work throughout the MPA. A panel of three large banks has now received a bill agreed by demands, but it will then be submitted to a regional hearing to confirm. At the end of the appeal, they will complete the fixed-up contracts and will receive it on behalf of the state funds. It is planned that donations, other than cash, will be handled in a special company that will be operated on by the bank. Tables are more than less likely to reduce the number of wear-off marks which fall under the tax-free stable taxes, and that will end with the payment of a stable tax. The fixed pay will be paid with free funds, sales, maintenance contracts, and money markets. It is estimated that income will be donated to a government fund that will be held at 384.3 billion dollars. In addition, it is estimated that the stability spending can increase the recovery of Iceland's Pentateuch by 81 billion dollars. There will also be some 30 billion spills. tax pay for the broilers, total 495 billion dollars. In 2016, 41.8 billion will be required. can be considered as a foundation of payment, but there is considerable uncertainty between the foundation and the network, among other things, when Adon and Iceland banks will be sold. In the fall of 2008, to reimburse the bank, we will be spent on a steady future in 2016 to face the decrease in the income of the state's funds of a special tax on financial firm and to pay off the financial bill that the state fund published at the Bank of Iceland. In the second place, the European Union's Environment Agency will have a stable budget and will have their provision in the future to reconcile with the economic and financial stability targets. It is thus assumed that these funds will be spent to reduce the debt of state funds as opportunity affords. Hv. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with the opinion. Signing it, along with the one standing here. Senators Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Brynhildur Pétursdóttir. President. I'd like to add only a few words from the chairman of the budget board earlier, where she claimed to propose a greater portion of about 175 million. K. a temporary contribution to the state radio hf. to promote national programs would not be the attempt of a greater proportion of budgetary committees to intervene in the topic or determine how to cut down the TV on a lower radio charge. All plans have been made by the highest promise. A minister of education and culture from earlier this year on the absence of the radio charge. Then new plans have to be made. A meeting of the budget committee has been established that, of course, it will take on domestic products where it is most expensive and there will be new plans to make. The review of a large portion of the budget board says, by permission of a president: ▪ During the current year, it is assumed that the price will be bought from that ◯ - i.e. Moviemakers in a town that doesn't say indoors - ◯ for 450 million. K. and that amount is expected to be 625 million. K. next year.How's it going? I asked why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir W. W. W. W. W. I.D. W. I.D. W. Is there a new plan? The question remains unwary. As I understand the opinion of the greater part, he's saying to the heads of the state radio: You're not supposed to cut these 450 million, but you're supposed to add this 175 and not move this team. If that's not the message, managers might just decide to cut the 450 million and let 175 stand. I can't really understand this proposal any other than that the General Assembly is in this way attacking the Council, into the Service Convention, and telling the government how to react to a lower radio charge when it comes to this team. I can't possibly understand it any other way. If this proposal is approved, the Allied Parliament will be taking over the topic of the Kingdom News.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk, and he wants to ask her about a few things. Hv. A senator criticized that property taxes had been canceled and could then be referring only to the nonrenewable wealth tax. He was a temporary tax and worked very hard on an older citizen who had little place to live, had not had a chance to be in pensions, but had some savings. As secretary of finance, there was a problem. A senator was very clear in his interview with the Business Journal, and was not objected to by any of the existing administrations, on the wealth tax: But it's temporary, and I'll stress not to renew it. So many were words. I think it matters for the Conspiracy to what it is. In view of the discussion and later messages that came from why, a senator explained his words there. Councilmen of the United States, actually left greener, too. A senator cannot answer for them. Hv. During the last term, a member of the administrative committee spoke extensively about health matters. Why was there a relative cut off on health matters, which includes Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's response, of course, when a person examines terms, but in other cases? Why was the health issue more cut down and, for example, added to the environment and foreign affairs? Hv. Third, a senator wondered why the benefits of a government fund are no better. Why, then, are there suggestions? government opposition, on the other hand, on the other hand, with the increase in bank interest rates and on the increase in tax control? These suggestions are not credible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u59	Make sure that...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u60	Mr. President. First we ask why. A senator to the wealth tax and my word when I was a minister of finance at the time that I did not want it to remain that way. Of course, as a financial minister, I found a technical flaw in this tax and myself when I prefer the tax of income and the tax of income that the property produces rather than the tax of property. However, the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government had never allowed it to go to the full and large - scale taxes but at the same time see that the elderly and the poor are in poorer place than the people with the lowest income in the labour market. That government would never have done that, but it is this government to do it. In our smaller sections, we begin with our committee's opinion that we criticize the government sector's income, reduce income taxation by excluding the equal role of the fiscal tax system, also reduce fishing costs at a time when it had never returned more money and now does not renew the wealth tax. If the administrative part values the state's financial status to such an extent that it must be cut down at the Land Hospital, must be confined to the State Radio, and keep the elderly and the microlooms on earnings under the minimum pay. The government's not supposed to cancel the wealth tax. [[The president calls.]] There were men in between who certainly could afford to pay that tax, that would have cut off the technical flaws from the tax but would have kept it standing rather than snatching a few of the elderly and the microchip.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u61	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says there were a couple of lawyers in between, so I'll use a word of it. A senator who paid the wealth tax that could have done so. I just want to draw attention to the fact that it was older people who paid that tax. In many cases, these people had to sell their assets in order to pay their taxes. I also draw attention to it, because I think this is a matter of principle in view of the circumstances. Councilmen of the Conspiracy are now saying that, at the same time, they all fit into the same bad habit. The senator said of the wealth tax: But it's temporary, and I'll stress not to renew it. Now, however, it has become something much more hairy. However, his temporaryity is included in a court order because of these taxes. People may now say that he had to be dejected, but they didn't, they just had him like he was, but they said, "Don't worry about it, we're not going to replace him. You can trust us, we're not going to renew it. You old people who have a huge problem paying this tax, trust us, we're not going to renew it. It turns out that it never stood to keep it. That's totally out of the question. A senator here and there. The members of the Union that what they said, both when they submitted their taxes and also before elections, was never able to keep up. I hope the voters remember that. I also asked about the priorities of health care because they now talk about them so much. Anyone can check a government account and examine the reply of the former Supreme Court. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's financial minister, and they see what the Conspiracy and Left Green really feels about the health. [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground on, Prime Minister...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u62	Mr. President. I just want to make it clear here that what we've criticized is that the highest is this one. A government is taking out all the mails from all the richest people in the country. That's what she's doing now, too, with the income tax change. Those with 700 points. K. the best they can get out of them, the likes of our council members, the ones below 450 you. K. I'll get 3 of you. K. or less. Those with 850 you. K. and more than 3 of you. K. This costs 5.5 billion. At the same time, a discount is being made, and the fiscal taxes are not replaced. This is important, that the rich get money from the right hand to the hand, but the elderly and the desperate should pay more both for training, for help, and for medical care, and for less money than those of the lowest salary. Hv. A senator wrote that we have cut relatively more on health matters than on other matters. This is certainly surprising because when we took the necessary actions during the last term, there was always a lower rate of health, school, etc. At the welfare services, there was always a lower cut-off than in the administrations. I need to examine this answer as a matter of course. A senator quoted, but this was what we worked for during the last terms, to cut down with a lower percentage to the health system. [[The president calls.]] We stopped cutting back in 2012 and began to give back in 2013, and it would have been necessary to make progressive progress now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u63	Mr. President. We're here for 3rd. Money and a lot of things were involved; undeniably, all that could be said was true. I'm just gonna go grab a few things. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir This time, the Harðardóttir of Oddsar G. returned a minority of members of a joint committee and put out key details, or most of the coverage, at the 2nd. money, as well as in the changes we made, and in the changes we made in the more part. There is no new word, we have criticized the reduction of taxes, and we pay very repeatedly, and it was covered in reply. Opinions change, politics is once so we want to approach things differently. Yet, it is said that the state funds will be of several billion because of the changes made from the system of things during the last term. It is the political choice of right persons to do so, so we disagree. It will not be hidden, though, that from now on there is a contribution from the state's treasure that is lower, for the first time from collapse, when we withdraw this stability. We do not consider this to be a sign of sharpness and good government in government matters. We have considered the interest of older ones and the desperate nature of their case. It is a big decision that deserves all the attention it has received. I'm worried that the change in my share for 3rd. If checked, then the connection will be cut. We propose extra funds for the Generals agent, social benefits, pension insurance, and the Land Hospital because we don't think there's enough to be done there either. The additional money placed on the health system, the Land Hospital, improves the situation, and matters so that the hospital can help people who are acutely ill, but it does not have to fill the beds of people who need a service after they have had a medical facility, so it will actually be saved at a nursing home. It certainly works for the land hospital, and the director has the nature of the situation, according to the terms of the pleasure of these extra funds, since they are important. The need for service is to increase considerably, almost 2% between years, and it in itself lacks funds to live up to it as well as the remunerations of a dispute between the state's funds and the Hospital, a total of some 400 million. K., which must be very important. I agree with what appears in the majority opinion, because other institutions seem to be having some disagreement with the Ministry of finance and the Ministers on the calculations of the predecessors. The rewards established by the executives apparently did not seem to cover much of the money they considered to be due in their own eyes. A greater proportion of the material suggests that people can be thoroughly familiar with all the underlying factors and that the work process will be examined. I think it's a good thing to sharpen it if that's what seems to matter. Here's a quarter of a billion down here. K. in the maintenance of the Land Hospital. It is up to what is needed, and it is respectable to do so. But the same is true of them. But I think the Landspians have given us a great deal of reasons for their demands. It has been observed that they have taken over the land hospital's money for maintenance, which is unacceptable. This certainly matters, and I think that is one reason why we have discussed these matters extensively. We've only been concerned that after a few rounds, the ER at January does not benefit patients who should. Because the other part suggests that a procedure on the pay matter is considered, I think it's a good idea for a financial committee to study these agreements. I felt that the situation at this meeting is serious, and I need observation if it is so that once a patient has completed his hospital course and needs a little rest or rehabilitation, he can get a space today but then not again until after a week, but it may take about a week to get back to his place and go home. It is unacceptable if this is the way it is, it does not bring back what I think it should have done; but my understanding was that it should be. This is part of the lack of money in this flow problem so-called, but it doesn't change the fact that it needs to be considered. We have a contract with this hospital hotel at the millennium that doesn't seem to be going on. We've talked a lot about the State Radio as it is, we really care about it. I raised a question earlier that I think is necessary for us to try to find answers. I discussed this with the minister just to make a point that it is important that it is not comparable to what has happened in the Vega program after she has received money for her particular projects, regardless of her own budget. However, it has always been that way, and it is now 18 billion negative to its own money at Vega's making. I'm worried about the same thing happening over there, but I hope, after my conversations and the chairman of the budget board and the highest level. Minister, that there will be a receipt that this will not be done in this way. A radio manager told us that there would be a cut - down of some 4,500 million. K. in the next year for the amount of contributions presented here, which, of course, reduces something. It doesn't change that there's a lot of surgery ahead; I don't think we've seen the same schedule as we've been looking at so far. I'm not saying that something is not to be missed, and that it's good to look at things. But I think RUV did things really well. What is shocking about it all is that in April. a statement made by the minister that the radio charge remains stable, and plans were made accordingly. A few days before the New Year's Eve, the government of the Kingdom Radio and Management Board has to sit down and reorganize the radio, how it works. You might say that this is a set policy of the authority into the Agency to do this. I see it that way, in the same way that I looked at the way at the University of Akureyri in the budget of last year, that there are money in this country to buy out of the state radio. I can see it if it's supposed to increase it as well as be suggested in the majority opinion. The minister of education and culture is directly asked, when he has to make a new service contract for the year's convention with the State Radio, to have stipulations on the basis of a program during the contract period. I think that's interesting, most of the time. In effect, we're not going to use the human resources and the staff we have in the house, tools and tools and everything that's fine. Instead, we are going to make the most of it for the State Radio. It's been quite a deal about such purchases, but it's also the most expensive material, so it must be very difficult for the National Radio to work on such large sums when the most expensive material is not available, as in this case. I'm concerned that the State Radio, its face, and its business, will be completely different; and I'm not discussing exactly what it's supposed to be but what it's like to be, it's still being made a huge transformation through the budget. And there's a really bad control of doing that. Before I quit, I have to say this here, by permission of the president, in the opinion of the greater part on page 6. 5 - That's what we said about 2nd and 2nd. about a bill for financial support for 2015 - it says that a financial committee has not received adequate answers to the Society's management committee and that the Minister's Committee on State Money did not get satisfying answers to the company's affairs, which was conditional for 181 billion. K. Fundament would be paid to the company. This isn't right. There was an answer from the Ministry of Economics that the State Radio had made this clear. I can't say this is how it is. Time's running away from you. I'm only going to go into the stability budget because there may be one of those big mails that we're going to take in between discussions. It is important to keep some 42 billion for our next year, in 2016. There's no more of these big numbers here that have been read. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the banks that are coming in here under a treasure will hardly be sold in the next few years, at least not the one who lands entirely in the hands of the State, i.e. Iceland Bank, for one thing, wouldn't be worth it if we started throwing them all out in the market. Unfortunately, the government intends to sell its 30% share in the Lands Bank, despite the decision of the advance Party and their conclusions at a national meeting for him to be in community possession, so I don't believe in the fact that more is being put on the market, which would be highly irresponsible. It also states that a budget of just over 41 billion will be arranged to pay off debts next year. It is therefore not expected that next year the debt of state funds will drop beyond the date, considering that financial accounts for the reimbursement of the Federal Bank will be paid up during the year, and the postpartment of that year is estimated to be about 90 billion. These extra funds certainly reduce this one bond, but I think there's still 6.7 billion leftovers left in this year. This will not really change despite the amount of money that is being taken here because of the stability process. I don't think I can get over this time, for maybe not much can be changed from now on, I suppose. And it is impossible to get the government classes on our side to participate in the changes we have made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. First of all, it's only a matter of course. A senator said when it came to VOLV, it's perfectly clear, if any. The senator read the last legal book, that the conditions requested for sustainable management, its strategy, were to be agreed by the Minister's Committee on State Money by the end of March of this year. It is perfectly clear that it was not done. Hv. A senator knows the same thing that a member of his body knows. The financier, that questions we have raised about business have been answered in such a way that it is not permitted to answer them because they need to be informed at the Wall Street Hall. The TV has sent a letter to the FME who has said that it is not their interpretation in this regard, i.e. FCE does not agree with the interpretation of RU in this respect, and it is becoming very strange if this is the only government agency to support it. A legal committee cannot find answers to financial issues. It's not right. A senator who makes arrangements like this. I then urged her to read the letter cited at the time. The Ministry of Financial Affairs on the topic discussed. It is clear that the State Department of Ministers was to accept the condition, and it was not. I want to ask you why. A senator, because I think it matters: It is being criticized that we have taken from the property taxes of old people and made them temporary taxes of the last administration, just so voters know, because this was introduced by the then president of the VG as temporary tax, wealth tax: what does that mean when the VG says temporary tax? Does that mean it's completely untimely?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u65	Mr. President. First of all, I think of the answer that we received from the Ministry of finance confirmed that there was no need to handle the matter further and that I assume a minister of finance is aware of the answer sent to a financial committee. I believe that we can hang ourselves to believe that the Minister's Committee should have answered this rather than just a secretary of finance, but he is responsible for the government's financial affairs and if he has agreed that this would be the case, I assume the State Radio will, too, because nothing more was called for. During all this time, it was not called after the Government Radio presented other data or that the Minister's Committee allowed so little to fit in and address the situation. Isn't that too unnatural, huh? Senator? If the Ministry Committee does not see reason to do so, should we not conclude that it does not feel the need to do so? At least we have to put it in some context. For temporary taxes or not, so at any given time, we need to reevaluate the situation. Exactly like what. A senator has dealt with, since he came here in the government again, is constantly reevaluating the situation, whether he and his people feel the need for these taxes or not, or any of these, and we are rising from the collapse at this time, when these taxes are laid down, and did not consider the need for an increase in tax gains of this kind. As it turned out in reverse by the dog. Harðardóttir It was quite clear that the wealth tax was something that we needed to adapt so that those who might least be able to land it - had clean possessions, grown people who had nothing else - would not be in that way, etc. However, temporary taxes may need to be extended at any time, and this may also have to happen in the future. Chairman now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u66	A respectable president. Hv. The last government was in power for four years and had every chance of repairing this tax, but it did not. There were immediately protests, there were lawsuits, and a court order said: "This is a temporary tax. The reason for the trial was that they did not consider this to be a restricted constitution. In turn, humans can interpret whether it was in court because it was temporary. Most people suggest that. In the countries we compare ourselves to, there are not such taxes because it is thought that they do not pass the Constitution of those countries. Hv. The last government had every chance to fix this, but it didn't. You can't understand this any other way than that when the left greens say the tax is temporary, and it's presented as such, it doesn't mean anything. It's interesting to hear how you're doing. A senator interprets the approval of the Generals. It is now known that the Minister's Committee on State Money was to accept these conditions, not do so, and cannot have all the opinions. I don't know why it wasn't done, whether they talked about it, I don't know anything about it, but it was what much of the Generals agreed. And what? In fact, a senator is saying that it does not matter what the council approves. Words cannot be interpreted. A senator in other ways. And I think it, far from the subject of matters, is the most serious. We can have all the opinions of RUS and all other government institutions and financial institutions but at the same time. A senator comes here and says: "Yes, yes, this is what we agreed on, this is what the Council agreed to, but I am totally willing to overlook it. It's very serious, and I'm telling you. A senator to revise his position on the legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u67	Mr. President. It's a matter of misleading the discussion. The logic as reason. A senator has used this for 181 billion. K. a donation is that the Minister's Committee should have handled this case. What is interesting, and we must follow up, is that the Minister's Committee does not see why we should come together to follow this. I don't give it much for this. With the wealth tax, like the cot. A senator entered, and the government's judgment went down. Therefore, he was not illegal. And as for the taxes, when talking about taking taxes and how to evaluate them, in the United States there is a seven - step income tax system in which they are taking high taxes from the highest income. Here the right government does not see a reason, so you might wonder, " How far to the right is it, when we turn to the long - term right forces in the United States and Britain, where we take the high - income tax from people. ' I'm not so worried about it, when we're dealing with tax revenues that the former government put on, whether it's about money taxes, fishing costs, or step-in income tax, because there's a way to the equation. There are many studies that this government that is going to build on its breadmate economic theory has its tax policy on its way to greater inequities. And not only that, but rather the Council soberly warns that this is not a support of the Federal Bureau of Money, and increases the rates of inflation that we cannot accept even now a little bit better despite the lack of the underlying budget management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u68	A respectable president. The committee's opinion of the former talks has been handled well. There are a few things I would like to focus on, as well as on what is said in the members of the section. I am delighted to see the firm stand taken so that the contributions made through the stability process will be spent on subsidies in the debt of state funds. This is repeated in the committee, and it is a joy to have such a complete agreement. It's complicated. I have to admit, this is a matter that I don't fully understand. What I understand about it seems to me to have been well-worked, and it's been very successful in all this. It's amazing that we're about to finish it in some way, although, of course, there are challenges. I think this is a very good stage, and we have more than 1,000 billion of us. You can't really say that number, because you can barely understand it. It's about less now. We have differing political views on the role of the State Radio. What I want to criticize is that I think I'm cut too much down to VOLV. We'll make adjustments that aim to keep the radio rate unchanged, but the more part adds to the budget, which is that the radio bill is being dropped, 175 million, which is a temporary contribution to domestic programs, which should still be bought by independent manufacturers. I think it's very good that the State Radio gets money to buy material from independent producers. I'd just like to see it as an extra cash. We have received control of RUV and representatives to the budget board several times, and we have heard their language, and we are very familiar with these matters. Business has been restored well, but RIV is now in debt, being able to pay off because of sales on the property and as much rent as possible on the property. But I'd like to protect a powerful public medium who plays a very important cultural role. That's not to say that I feel comfortable with everything that VOLV does and it would be unnatural if you were happy with everything, but it's a discussion we have to take. I would so much like to see that we were not cutting down to this institution and somehow hollowed it inside. I worry that there is some political battle that causes certain categories to weaken RUS rather than the other. I don't like it. It is a pleasure to see that the memory of the item at the council can have an effect. Sometimes you feel like it's not. We have discussed much in the memory of the Land Hospital and have called for the presidents of the Land Hospital to meet us. In the past few months, we have discussed the Land Hospital matter at a meeting. The second time, the meeting was open, which I think is good. Now 250 million is being given. K. in a maintenance situation that is very important because the hospital has been removing its budget for maintenance where maintenance funds have not been successful. Similarly, billions are being added to the so - called efflux problems of the Land Hospital, which are when people are in the hospital, where they live, but there are no other options. In this case, it is often a nursing home or some kind of rehabilitation. This is very important. On the other hand, I worry that there is not enough to be done. I hope that it will be as soon as possible that the assessment will be carried out on the land hospital operating 30 million of the next year's budgets, with a highly qualified population. I hope that this conclusion gives us something to do so that we can really start discussing the affairs of the Land Hospital. I feel that we don't have enough data and the facts are not there, as this business is 50 billion. It's complicated. The smaller section adds a reimbursement to improving the quality of the elderly and the poor and ensuring that the benefits are maintained by the lowest wage. Now that better years are important for everyone to enjoy and on, I feel, always be the project to try to raise the worst and worst, whether that is the lowest wage or the compensation, we should lift it up. That's what matters. I can totally agree with what's been discussed when people discuss the benefits in relation to the lowest salary. I feel that the results of this discussion are that the lowest salary is simply too low. Those in the lowest salary may enjoy some child benefits or interest benefits, but that may not even be true if they are in a rented market, but they do not receive a discount on anything or anything and they are not in good standing. There are certain groups out there that have it very bad, and I don't feel like we have a hold around, e.g. co-workers. So this is what we do again, and we always hope that it will be accepted. There's still some time left. It is also a joy to accept the transfers of disabled persons to rural society, or perhaps not at the same time, that it is more likely that humans are doing so here because their rural communities have complained a great deal that financial contributions have not followed this assignment. I want to draw special attention to NPA or personal-management aid. That task seems to be taken out of parentheses, and we are not content with it. This is but one solution of many, and it is very important to have it available. I understand that there is a report on that matter in particular, and I look forward to that report because I find it difficult to believe what has been said about this type of service so much more expensive than anyone else. I want them to see it in black and white. I worry about these 55 contracts, or what they are, because there is a certain uncertainty about how those who get the service in a very bad position. It needs to be resolved quickly. That's all there was to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u69	A respectable president. I'm gonna go grab a big fish and start by saying as my sisters, okay? Congress members of the smaller legal committee have stated, especially with regard to the interest of elderly and invalids, Land Hospital and State Radio, as well as the translocation of disabled persons, especially when it comes to personal assistance, the NPA project, that they are considered to be as correct as other resources when it works. It is a very good and interesting project that has had a powerful effect on those who need it. I'm going to have a positive day to celebrate Christmas and that we're finally in the middle of the 3rd. ... abundant. [[Up front.]] I don't believe you. Hv. paritaprevir Guðlarge Þórðarson claims to have a birthday, if that is the case, I want to congratulate him on his birthday and be particularly happy today in the Sermon on the Mount, although I say I don't believe him. [[Up front.]] Is that true? Congratulations. You never know what to believe in in this environment. What I would like to celebrate from the greater part of the legal committee is that the majority have fallen from 13 billion. K. ... address to the Generals' agent. I'd like to celebrate, especially, because this office is very important and plays a very important role for the General, it is the natural agent of the Generals, as the name of this immensely important agency says. It is true that this is true, and it was shown in my language and in other cases. How Would You Answer? In the United States, although the emissary has moved to a rented home, housing is not finished and other business costs have been introduced that need to be taken into account. I am glad that discussing this material in the 2nd issue has had an effect and has had results. and, in particular, I rejoice at what will be presented in the Commission's section of the greater need to start a good conversation with the Trustee of the Generals on how the financial office will be done in the future, especially since he has come to a rented home on the high Generals, that is, who should pay the expenses. Modification of the part to the 2nd Environment bill. ... thatPresidentofAlbandis will receive 15 million. K. to take care of your initiatives, you have returned a slight change. We propose that the agent receive 14.7 million. K. to take the initiative. It's in the opinion of the dog. Administrative and surveillance committee for the report of the General's agent that he needs more financial support in order to take the initiative. We're counting 14.7 billion. K. to be the lowest that can be done in the current situation in order to be able to perform initiative studies in a relative way. It is very important that the making of the adjustment should simply be accepted in order to give the opinion of the individual. The administrative and monitoring committee is respected at the high General Assembly which is the natural basis for the importance of this committee. I sincerely hope that the proposal gets a walk here at a council of slightly changed shapes. And I'd like to celebrate it as well. More than anything else has been made to drop from its 13 billion proposal. K. surgery by the office. Other than that, I would like to remind you of the changes I proposed to the Commission of Information to 5 billion. K. This is also evident in the opinion of both men and women. The Commission and monitoring committee says that there will be a postmortem conclusion where the decision-making committee will take up to 200 days to resolve a case. Obviously, the delicateness of some matters does not work out when it comes to time and timing. Many of the information requests are about reporting, and the reporting is dependent on its timely appearance so that the news is still valid in the community and active. I'd like to say that we were agreeing to the addition of a form of free people and prisoners in Iceland, the OPCAT book called, celebrating that the more part is bringing more money into the prison case. According to this, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is much more to this party and especially to the Little-Resurrection where the equipment of prisoners is completely bad, and some part of the funds that has been added to this delicate prison party must go to reform the prison facility as well as to ensure the security of prison guards and others for the prisoners to get the proper service and therefore their community-based role that we believe should play in prison. I hope that the validation of the book, this additional contract, will make it possible that next year there will be a significant reimbursement of local prisons, simply because it is a long time to do so. Prison is a social institution designed to be a relief, not some form of vengeance, as it was during the Middle Ages. It's time to start saving houses where the prisoners live and try to perform their reform work properly. I'm not going to keep my case much further today and thank you for having come to the budgeting business in the past few months, and I'm really happy that this is about to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u70	Madam President. First, I want to share heartfelt congratulations. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son, who has a birthday today. The other is proved true, though, that I wish he hadn't celebrated his birthday with the evil speech he gave earlier, as he threw a grenade out into the open, and we'll probably need that lung from day to day to clean up after him. Madam President. I'm not exactly in the same Christmas spirit as what. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir. It is true that there are positive things that have occurred between discussions, and I am especially glad that there are funding for the initiative - taking agent of the General Assembly. The fact is that very few have noticed here that the biggest gas and the fan were from a Senate debate in the last few days, that with much quietness have passed through the Council today and yesterday, two changes in the tax system, resulting in the transfer of a total of 10 billion dollars. in tax reductions to people who can be defined as high - paying employees. People who don't need it. I want to draw attention to this because it is more than necessary to meet the reasonable wishes of the elderly and the desperate that they too will receive back - ups. That's 6.5 billion. By means of this government, too much peace has moved 10 billion to those who do not need it while elderly and desperate get to eat the things outside. That's why I'm not in the same Christmas spirit. I only wanted to make this comment, but I have no particular question to ask. The senator, but this is how I feel about Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u71	A respectable president. I'm sorry for having a sensitive heart. paritaprevir I don't think Skarphéðinsson's messing with the Christmas party today. But I have to agree with the anxieties and pessimism that came out of words. Senator. The changes in the tax system that are making in the best public society today are natural below every cell. I think a number of studies have shown that the Icelanders want to have a welfare community where both their community service, the Landskeeper, and so forth. A social service and welfare community naturally means that we treat a person in a room, because I don't want to call him a credit agent, I just think it's a remuneration worker who's in another kind of pay. I don't think there's much room for compensation. We are to treat these people in the same way that other people do. It should not be in another category or in another way. However, we might ask ourselves, " What else is to be expected? ' We live naturally in a society with the highest potential. A government is highly right - minded, and it believes much in the doctrine of bread. But there is one thing: prosperity will not be consumed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u72	Madam President. Of course, I'm sorry to ruin some of the Christmases. Councilmen, and especially birthday celebrations, of course. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's god. But the fact is, I'm not in any Christmas spirit, and honestly, I'm not going to Christmas from Congress halls as sad as I am right now. There are some changes here that in effect translate the transport of 10 billion dollars. to people who do not need it. At the same time, it is impossible, according to the government sector, to pay the same increases that everyone else in the community can have. And that is absolutely right. paritaprevir A Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir said that society has shown that it wants a strong welfare community. There have been studies, and I remind you of Pirata, who have shown that 90% of Iceland's society wants the same benefits for the elderly and the poor. Yet, as revealed in the last few days, it is this way that it is the humble group of Icelanders against it. And where can that group be found? He's found at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. He can be found on the side of independence and the forwarding team at the General Assembly as one man resists the proposal that the elderly and the desperate receive these benefits. While the vast majority of Icelanders want it, there are only a very few people who don't want it, and unfortunately, for one of the fates, they're all there at the General Assembly of Iceland. The elderly and the poor will think about it when they go to Christmas. This is why I have probably walked off the World Council before Christmas, with much greater joy in my heart than I have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u73	A respectable president. I want to say the highest words. - What? paritaprevir Snoops, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, though he may also be honored by me. This is the situation, and I think it has been evident that during the past three winter of the great General Assembly, there is no general democracy, but the majority of democracy and even leadership where certain leaders govern the ideologies of their own age. Councilmen are required to follow. It has been observed in conference discussions that the bread - crumbling theory, denied by even the International Bank and other institutions, is held in all ways by the Independence category and good if not also by the forward party. But well - being is something we make. She's not something that's gonna happen. We need to make a conscious decision to create a social well - being, which means that we need to make decisions, among other things, to spend certain resources in making this kind of welfare. I think that many have the dream that it comes from itself, but it's not the case, well - being is much more complex than that. I hope, at the next election, we'll have some party members at the council that are more interested in creating a good welfare community than are the members of our country today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u74	A respectable president. I'm going to try to go through this, and I'm going to try to make a quick opinion of the committee. I thought the Chairman of the Committee, what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, do it all right. I'm not going to repeat those things. But I'd like to say, and I'm not accusing anyone, it's just for us to wonder why. Senators because we have made a new impression on the 2nd. It was known that we would receive very large sums of money, and this has been the best thing to do. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. During this brief period of time, a legal committee has tried to handle the matter as well as possible. We are talking about hundreds of billions. I don't think our work ethic is a good thing. We were expecting this and both of us. Generals and anti-electors at noon. The legal committee tried to get all the people we could to discuss these issues in a short period of time, but we have to improve the work environment so that we can take a closer look, like this in the case. I think we should in our coverage have already made up for the risks we anticipated. The case should have been more detailed and better discussed by then. The budget, but we weren't doing anything. Of course, we will discuss this further. This is an enormous sum of money and interests. We're close to double the budget. This is a property that is not clearly identified, and it would have been better to do more thoroughly. It is, however, a pleasure to do so. The government has been such a success as the recovery of the budgets and the stability proposals are natural things that people did not dare to hope for many losses since it could happen. Of course, it is a joy to do so, and we must pray for it. Secretary of the budget and the highest. A government congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u75	With the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u76	To tap into big changes in the remuneration gate - I'm not going to discuss any more of the side of the income in this brief talk - there are 175 million temporary contributions to the State News for the implementation of the national program. It is conditional that this year's government radio uses the same amount it used to buy from independent producers, 450 million. K. This I believe, a respectable president, is of utmost importance. I'm more inclined to believe our partner's opinion, ex-whipped. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bömvell's office, that we should develop the Government Radio in funds. We've had this kind of treasure and we have one. We're talking about how important it is for us to promote the English language. This means that we need domestic production to ensure that the funds we provide for such things, the media and the other aspects, are mostly in domestic production. I see no better way than then that the members who pursue such things compete for the financial benefits of competitive funds. That is why it is a pleasure to see in a committee program. The financier's office referred to and directly to the minister of Education and Culture that in the new Ministry Service Convention and the State Radio, there will be a stimplementment on the basis of a program for the contract period. I think this is the best way, Mr. Honorable President, so the lawgiver will make sure that we use the money for a domestic program. Then there is a agreement on funding legal services to disabled persons. I have to admit, more dignified President, that there are enormous amounts of money that we now put into this category to the countryside. It's completely incomprehensible why the knots were so badly treated during the last term of this transfer. Anyone who dared to criticize it or just ask it, I did, too. paritaprevir Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson, who was more determined - I'm not going to say that they were driven back with abusive shame and abusive speech, but the message was clear, there should not be any concern. After more than a decade, the elementary school was transferred. That meant a lot of moderns for many years, but it is obvious that the rural communities have been very successful in this process. It's special, I'm not going to discuss it here. On the other hand, one would assume that after that, people on both sides of the table had learned the best way to do it, but unfortunately they are not. Now we have come to a conclusion on that matter. Let us hope that this is the best time our rural society can perform, and those in need of service will receive the services we would like to receive. Then there's the Landspit. Once again, funds are being kept up. Of course, one would have wanted to see that we were spending more money building a new hospital that clearly needs to be done. That's 723 billion now. K. That's what happened at a meeting. Legal committees to the figures as long as possible. Governments have been talking about and referring to internal investments, the fact that we're between Mexico and Greece, numbers from the 2013 budget. It was a budget decided by the last government. It's a little strange to be beating on the current government for that. The contributions have been doubled, and now they are up to three times from that time. Of course, we want to see as much money as possible in an investment at a new hospital that is absolutely necessary. Then comes the other factor, the big one, which is 1 billion. I think that's the biggest project we've ever had. This is because of the change in population age. Those aged 67 years and older will increase by 50% in the next ten years. In 2061 this group of people will have become 100,000. This group needs more medical care than others do. We haven't prepared for that yet. The health system is more than the hospital. That's where all the chains must hang together. The hospital is a very good emergency, and it should be. It is vital that they fulfill that role. For example, for decades we have neglected health care. Today, at the medical clinic in the capital area, where the situation is the best, there are as many doctors under 40 and over 70 years of age - as many doctors are under 40 and over 70 years of age. [[Up front.]] Emphasis on the highest. A health minister is now making great efforts to promote health care that is absolutely necessary. Let us see that 25% of those who go to the emergency department of the Land Hospital, which is very expensive, should go to the clinic but not be able to do so because of the lack of resources. Actually, health care is a step toward not having to go to the Land Hospital. It's done by preventive measures, I'm not going to discuss it here, and it's done by a stronger health care provider. Then, when people are released or should be released from the Land Hospital, there has to be some means to consider. That's the big move in the near future. How happy we are that we are once again setting priorities for that class! This section will be saved to a nursing body and will allow it to produce a variety of resources that are absolutely necessary to ease the Land Hospital, but of course, the other side of the money, also to provide suitable services, a service for the people, and so on is inexpensive. We have come to the same place that we were in when the government of the Independence Party began to exist. Then it was a problem. We solved it in the 22 months we were in power, but then the problem came up again. This is the cost of Land Hospital and very bad for the people who need this service. A respectable president. I hope now we'll discuss health issues on the bottom. It's quite clear, and I've said it repeatedly and will repeat it while the discussion is in the place where it is that it's not the basis for the massive statements at which it is. when speaking to a health care professional, she is in a position to control her condition. It is known, according to a respected president, in the reply of a former financial minister, that health and law - enforcement issues were better cut off than in other places in the past government. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] In fact, there was an increase in the Environment Ministry and increase in foreign affairs when that government had to be saved. I'm not criticizing it, Mr. Honorable President, that it would have had to be saved. I'm not saying it was easy. I can quite understand that these factors do not seem fair to them. I'm just saying, and I told you during last term, too, that your priorities weren't right. Hopefully, all of us are assigned to continue setting priorities for health care. You cannot say here that you cannot talk about percent and billions and dozens of billions because much of that is about the subject. One is money, and another is how we use it. This government has used them both when it comes to health issues and when it comes to pension insurance. That's what everybody wants to know. I was in a government with the United States of America in my time. At the same time, the priorities were set in behalf of these lawsuits. I don't remember, Mr. Honorable President, maybe someone who was with me in the government at the time will recall that they say that the benefits of social security were so great that it would be absolutely fantastic. I don't remember. [[Up front.]] I don't remember it happening at any point in the history of Iceland. I haven't existed since the beginning of Iceland, but I only know when the insurance system began and can claim that it has never been said. Unfortunately, that will never be said. It is unfair when people have set their priorities at 27 billion more in pension insurance now than they had done before this government began. A great deal of this has come about the government's decision. It's not fair to speak what's done here in a Senate hall. It won't be taken back. I hope we have the wisdom to discuss these two important classes of issues on the bottom, the other part of health care, i.e. how we deal with the huge projects that lie ahead of us and the pension business. I hope we have the wisdom to unite with us in completing the task of the Commission of Peter Berlandal, to focus more on work evaluation rather than on microenergy evaluations and other activities. If we do, I think we're going to achieve maximum success and, actually, I think the honor of the Alliedis is going to grow. But in order to do so, all of us have to work at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u77	Madam President. I'd like to ask the question last year. A senator proposes to the greater part about the State Radio. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee spoke earlier during the discussion, and it seems to me that the president and vice president are not the same on this contribution. That's why I want to ask you about it. The greater part of the committee's list shows that there is no change in the radio fee, but there is a contribution from the state fund, i.e. 175 million. K. which will be provided by the national radio, and the production should be protected in order to increase the pay of the Kingdom News on material from the independent national producers and by 2015 450 billion were spent. K. To this team at the RUS. And then there's an ◯... and that amount is expected to be 625 million. K. next year.How's it going? What I find interesting about this is that we know that the State Radio needs to make new plans because the radio rate is down, but the old plans had been based on the same radio bill. We know that every team has to go inside and cut down, and the domestic material is the most expensive. Is the major part of saying you can't move that team, i.e. that contribution, which has been spent in 2015 to purchase material from the local independent manufacturers, must be 450 billion. K. And the 175? So the canal must then be elsewhere in the Agency in order to respond to a lower radio charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u78	A respectable president. Because people talk a lot about the State Radio, and that's just fine, I feel like there's something missing in the discussion that in the budget it was assumed that it would get to pay off the debt of 1.5 to2 billion selling property. The committee noted that interest - an eight - year loan is being paid, and that is well. Also stated in the Commission's opinion that income has been increasing now, and it will increase by 60 million each year because the government of the United Kingdom - and if thanks, I think it was wise and effective - has been renting out parts of the house. Then there is the problem. A senator mentioned, this is to promote national programs to purchase from independent manufacturers. That's perfectly clear. The national radio will bring in 450 million people. Of course, there is something that one at least agrees to do. True, I hear the view that not to buy the material out of the house but to focus on doing it within the house. I don't quite understand that point of view. For example, it is noted in a fine report by the Eyhorr Committee that in the North countries it is often established a limit for the state radio to have a minimum value that it buys from other manufacturers. I don't know how to get it wrong. I thought this was something people would be able to unite about. As for the radio in general, there are many possibilities. We stress how best to do so. We emphasize this in the committee's opinion because it was presented at the beginning of the year. The legal committee that a lot of things could be done better, e.g. When it comes to the telecommunication, to get the material to work together, the public will be able to work safely there - I can take it better in my second answer - to reduce the cost if people are thinking of achieving better results in the business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u79	Madam President. The definition of the vice president of the budget committee and the explanation are then such that the directors of the Kingdom radio must not respond to a lower radio fee by moving with the 450 million who are going to buy material from independent manufacturers, but they must cut down inside their home; they must not cut down the contributions that are going to buy from the local independent manufacturers. I see why. That's how the vice-form legal committee works. This conflicts with what the chairman of a budget committee earlier said, for it is natural to tell government officials about how to cut down and how to act. It's different. Hv. A senator speaks extensively for a long-term strategy that takes into account the country's age combinations, etc. and large investments that we face. I agree with him that it needs to be done and looked longer than we've been doing already. One of these costs is health care because of the people's aging. It has been noted in the media as well as in some financial committees that the Landsta deals with finding out how to serve more patients who are primarily involved because the nation is growing older and the elderly are growing older. That problem is not solved with the suggestion of the greater part, and I ask why. A senator is not to be viewed as having an extra supply in business to meet this problem, but is there in the blues a demand for a billion cuts at the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u80	A respectable president. Of course, RUSH may decide not to use these 450 million to buy material elsewhere, but it is a question of whether they have the right to make this due contribution. Of course, the rulers there control it. But it turned out, because they're talking about RUS and they want to talk about the business, that we know that during the last term -- I haven't had any serious explanations of it -- men went out into this Vodafone mission, they were going to get 100 million in advertising revenues of something called the RuV2 and planned out in some very peculiar plan. I'm not going to tell people how to run the Kingdom Radio, but if I were to, I'd start by looking at it and the investment we're going to have elsewhere on telecommunications and looking at the factor. Then in terms of health care, what I feel is missing when a person discusss Land Hospital is that the Landsaholic is an emergency hospital. People go into emergency departments that shouldn't. What does that mean? That means enormous expense. If we succeed in health care, the number of people going to the Land Hospital will be reduced. Similarly, there are people in the Land Hospital who are not supposed to be in the Hospital, who are to be in other alternatives that are inexpensive and better for the individual. So if we're taking on and adding to our health care and improving the flow, we will achieve the results, at least, we're clearly putting money on it, we'll ease the charge of the Land Hospital. If we have it as sad as it is today, we're doing it as much as possible. Then the claim can be made. A senator is entitled, but he would be as unwise as possible. Now we can have all the political opinions, but I don't understand why people don't want the service to be acceptable to each other. An emergency hospital is a hospital, and we're supposed to make sure he's the best hospital in the hospital. [[The president calls.]] Then there is the need for another for service. This has to be considered in context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u81	V.E.G. President. First, I would like to go along with the claims made by reason. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Thor Þórðarson about the cuts to the State's expenses during the past term. I've been well aware of how they were involved, and I've never in any way been trying to hide what was done there, and I've declared that we're getting too much down to the specifics, we're cutting too much down to the health - care providers, and so can be said about law enforcement, so I'm not running away, not at all. According to the information I've made on this, and if we split this into three, the cut-off was proportional to social security. Thereafter, the State's operating cost ranged from 20 to225% to a very high level, with a cut to the law for less than 3 billion dollars. And much less. The damage to health care was also massive, resulting in the loss of 5,500,600 jobs in the natural area of the land hospital. I want to emphasize this. I'm not making him feel great. Still, when it came to investments, cutting was the greatest. There it was primarily transport, where the cutout was the greatest. I remember talking about how this was affected by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which we had prior to a collapse that reminds me of 30 billion in construction, which went down to 15 billion. I'm aware of these numbers, but they were the degrees. That's the big cut. That was what I wanted to say in the beginning. Then there are three factors I would like to consider in connection with the budget bill. It's the Landspit first. Of course, it is good to get this extra money from the post as it was after 2nd. The budgets, of course, I rejoice, but I don't think it's enough, and I've looked to it and lived on what has come from the ringleaders of the Land Hospital's Hospital that a higher amount is needed than this additional. And we know nature, I'm afraid to say in some way that our medical system is in our own way, and we know that there are many things that are too narrow, including the Hospital. I'm not going to take any further attention to these psalms. With regard to social security and disability and the elderly, the debate has been in the process of comparing contributions during the last term and also on the basis of what the law has to say. It is true that the law has stated that the improvements in social security should take into account another two, pay development, or financial development, and should apply to the higher. This seemed to be a security valve in its time when it was placed in the law in the latter part of the 1990's. Prior to this, the criteria had been the lowest pay scale that remained more secure for these low - income groups in society and, especially, for those who have seen that the labor movement has put extra emphasis on raising the lowest - income bill. Away from this, that's the legal floor, we need to look to what's possible in society and what's happening in society. It has been suggested that labour agreements have made retrospective contracts. The debate over the extras was about this natural reaction. Similarly, in view of what is happening in society, people today look to the moral and economic nature of improving in these groups. I agree with that. I'd like to remind you of what I did here for the first year of 1995, where I suggested that the votes and dressers be canceled and that some groups who heard of these parties go into the union agreements. It had increased too much in the groups that heard a dresser's plea and a decision in my opinion, and I wanted a part to return to the ile environment of the union, while the vote of others would be employed by a remuneration committee that made recommendations to the Council and then the Council agreed to the results or refused from events, including pay to members of Congress. This is why, and I'm still following this arrangement, that in all such decisions people should be accountable. Those making decisions need to be responsible. When contracts are made in a general labour market, they go to approved or expressed on both sides of the employment market and in the remuneration market. If people disagree with one of the wings, the deal is terminated. If men are disgruntled with their men's careers, the labor movement can be replaced in democratic elections at the councils of these relationships. In other words, someone is responsible, and someone can be held accountable. This does not apply to a dresser committee and a dresser's discretion. These people are completely independent, but they should not be. I felt that it was a beautiful harmony in that, and it comes back to me now when people talk about the council as a duel or a advice for the poor and the elderly, that we will do two things at once, determine the ideals for these groups that will all depend on our decisions and on ourselves. We could decide and confirm the Senate Prize and the Minister's Remuneration on Wednesday, then the ideal for disability and the elderly the next day on Thursday. I think they'll get just another look at it there. No longer can anyone take responsibility. I wanted to draw attention to this, but I will not go further into those psalms. I will not give a long talk. The state radio is the third factor I wanted to come to. Now, the thing that I did in the past is that I'm not well acquainted in the financial affairs of The Kingdom News in any detail, I'm not. I've been listening for people's emphasis. I have listened to the emphasis presented in the case of the presidents of the Kingdom TV, and I have listened to the emphasis that has been given to a greater proportion of legal committees. I've understood it so that the state radio business is in irons and that it reduces the amount of pressure that is currently available and is based on a radio charge of 17,800 bucks. will translate into some kind of contraction of the operation. Now we have this price, and we bring it down to 16,400k. There's going to be some kind of impairment, although I reiterate that I'm not involved in these financial factors exactly. What came in, however, is really not an additional one. It is a conditional contribution to take care of specific factors, and who are they? They are national programs for independent filmmakers, from independent manufacturers. Does this mean, then, that the cost of what is already being done by the Kingdom News is at hand? No, it's for growth. There we are dealing with a particular contradiction, a decline in the course of the State Radio, and then we talk about building a program outside the Agency. Now, I'd like to say that the ultimate objective of those who want to protect their state radio is to promote national programs. This has been the case, and for decades it has been doing so to what extent it should be involved in the use of materials and to the extent that it should involve the production within the store. I think everybody agrees that this is supposed to be a mixture of the two. Of course, we're buying material outside the Kingdom News, that's always been done, and I'm totally open to the ideas that have been torn up to promote national programs and institutions in general that are in radio or television management are being benefited. But it must never go near the State Radio to make the established setting so weak that it no longer has the potential to produce material. I wrote about the other day that a short time ago an interview was shown, in a small way, about a show that did not cost much money, with British senator Austin Mitchell, who was an honorable chronicle for his contribution to the communication between Iceland and the British during the cod war. A U.S. Marshal's final interview with Austin Mitchell. In this case, he was made up of tremendous professionalism and knowledge, which exists in that institution of Ágústsson, who made this fine contribution. We need to keep people on the program, and we need to have skilled professionals also, moviemakers, musicians, professional professionals. If we take all our challenging assignments from these people and take them all out, we will weaken this established arrangement. I fear that with this requirement for an institution that is financially compromised, the State Radio is being weakened. I'm looking forward to the highest level of this discussion. Education minister at times referred to a service contract with the State Radio. I am curious about the emphasis that will be there. Is it said that it is more suitable to make the State Radio a shell, an empty shell, a sample, and to transmit what is produced by others, or is it the policy to keep the flowers in order in this shell to produce its produce? If so, first consider conditions such as those mentioned in the report, use proben, and then not in the actual law text, and then in this service contract. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education, asking him to find out whether he is doing so in speech or comments: What will he expect to do with this service contract? Is he coming up for a discussion at the Council? Of course he should, for it is the policy of the Kingdom News. I feel that the lawgiver must discuss this service contract in his own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u82	A respectable president. I'd like to say first about the extent to which part of the Government Radio Management Board is bought, the chemical purchase from independent active producers, it's time to view it as a whole. The government radio has a range of $6.1 billion in advertising, and this, of course, has to be looked at in proportion to that. I believe that within Our Kingdom News, we continue to have the expertise and skills that are so important to us in cultural context. It is, of course, the nation's largest cultural institution. It is of utmost importance in that context. I think that if you look at the last few years of Our Kingdom Radio, under the direction of the current radio operator, there has been an increasing part of the operation of calling for information from independent producers. I think I'm right about this year going to be 450 million this year. K. will be devoted to these factors, a much higher amount than it was in 2014, for example. So this decision and plan match it. But the main point is that this will be shown in a service contract. Then I'd like to say, given the occasion, if the Honorable President of the Council allows, I intend to bring the service contract here to the council, e.g. in the form of a report, where we could discuss that agreement and preferably before it was signed, the signing of such a contract would be slightly delayed. I think it's good that we discuss such a deal at the council so that the opinion of the senators will be expressed before it is settled. I think there's an improvement in your discussions about State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u83	V.E.G. President. I welcome this statement to the highest degree. Secretary of Education that a service contract with the State Radio will be arranged for a discussion at the council before he is completed. I'd like to direct it to the highest. Minister of Education, even though he is opposed to me, I want to turn it over: "How does he view the declarations of the U.S. government officials that the change in the progress of the coming year to State Radio will lead to harmony and enlightenment? What's a vision of the highest. That's a minister of education's?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u84	A respectable president. There is a serious problem still in the state radio business. This has been stated, among other things, in the report entitled "The Arnaldur. " But I took note that the director of the Government Radio Director, Guðlaugur G. Sverrisson, says in the news today that he believes that the solution is right here. He says that the situation is narrow, but this is a good conclusion to work out. He also points out that when you look at the funds that are spent on the state radio, this addition may up to 175 million. K. has come the same amount of money this year. Added to 60 billion estimates. K. which are due to more currency, so that the next year there will be a bigger amount of money. In addition, there is the possibility of selling the land that has been discussed at a rate of 1.5 billion to reduce debt that will lead to about 90 million. K. a lower interest rate per year. [[The president calls.]] So the claim that years of cuts are being cut, of course, does not hold any opinion, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u85	V.E.G. President. It's a natural opinion that the radio rate is being lowered, that's, that's, the price the radio receives from 17,800 bucks. This year at 16,400k. This is the natural reality. Other factors are at the highest rate. Education ministers point to, sale to property, etc, which is much less vague. We're talking about the business. We're talking about the progress that then goes to this business. And what is called an supplement or an additional donation is actually the strength of the independent manufacturers on the market to produce foreign programs for the presentation of the Kingdom News Radio. Of course, that's fine in itself. However, there is mainly strength to them rather than strength to the state radio or to the difficult business position of the Kingdom News. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u86	A respectable president. In the short answer, we have what? paritaprevir Do not make Ögmundur son of Jónasson look like an opportunity to cope with all that is needed. A senator spoke. We'll find another time for it, and I won't doubt it will be done. I'd like to say that already. A senator speaks of the cutback or savings during his last terms, quite frankly, that it was primarily in investments. What I'm referring to, however, is the answer I received to my inquiry directed to the highest degree. Secretary of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and then a government bill. That's what I'm referring to when I'm pointing at this and just taking it right out of my answer. On the one hand, it's a matter of state business, and I'm asking about the development of state workers. Of the 751, when all is taken along in Period A, there were 508 in the medical system and 102 in the Ministry of Justice, i.e. decrease of these medicines. There was then an increase in the Ministry of Environment of 39 as well as an increase in the State Department of State, although only about one, I felt that this was a blow to me in view of this man - made project. There was also an increase in the Ministry of Economic and Business and Social Affairs. This is what I'm referring to, this official evidence. I don't have any other information. I think a government bill is absolutely correct, I refer to numbers there. However, it was not the number of employees but the evolution of individual institutions, and I have done so before I can't do it right now. I have no better data than this official evidence. I can't help but trust them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u87	V.E.G. President. The comparison numbers I've used were the proportion of land production. I've also built on official data and information provided by the International Cash Fund in the same way that they showed that the public contribution to social security would have been relatively small, and then these institutions and investments will be taken on a boat. Then, looking at the number of employees, I could believe that this is the right thing, or that it harmonizes completely with my understanding of these matters. The damage done by health professionals is much earlier than in others because the cost of operating in a medical facility is payable, so it can be. It's a question of which criteria we use.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u88	A respectable president. These are just figures and facts. I've always said that the investment was basically taken down. We can talk about it in a very special way. It is not only the number but also the percentage. It was the largest in health matters, 7.3%, and the second largest in judicial matters, mainly police, 5.3%, while being added and on average 4.2% were, so both health and law care, with the majority being law enforcement, that was more, of course, far above average, especially health care. But then when we go the other way, we have the Environment Ministry, which is added, 8.5%, as well as the foreign languages. I think it's very good that we discuss this on a better occasion because these numbers are all there. It doesn't matter whether it's the percentage or the number, the savings are always the biggest in the medical world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u89	V.E.G. President. I'm sure we'll go over those numbers. If there's something wrong with my language, I'd love to correct that. I don't think so. I've been over these numbers. In fact, the ratio points I've used are much higher, requiring more cuts than they say, so the question is, what years are we using? It also comes into play naturally. But as we clearly agree, the cutout was the greatest in investments, especially in transport. Why? We wanted to protect our welfare services as much as possible. Most of the time, we wanted to protect our social security, i.e. the weakest groups that all depend on getting alimony through the social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u90	Madam President. I'd like to respond to a word or two. Senator on State Radio. What surprises me about this donation, up to 175 million. K., to promote production of acting Icelandic television programs and national programs, is why not only do the exact same number as it was once a year ago when a special contribution, up to 182 million, was put in place to meet certain criteria for the state's operation at that time. Of course, what's going on here is the same sequence as then. They're giving out cash to the state radio, which is nothing more than a financial straitjacket. It is some kind of requirement on the part of a major legal committee to do this in this way. I also wondered, " Why don't men go all the way and insist that Hrafn Gunnlaugsson's son be assigned to form a documentary on preservation? ' The prime minister of Davíð Gunnuga's Gunnlaugsson, at the pier in Reykjavík, has decided ahead of time what to use that money. It is tied in the Government Radio Service Convention that at least 10% of the budget should be spent on national television products from independent manufacturers. What's the government administration for, I ask, if this is to be considered normal in this way. Of course, this is not the time to approach the need for the Kingdom News. I guess the government radio is more and less like that, half to the pay. And wouldn't the cost of a pay raise on its own during the year be more than 300 million? So here's a lot of missing, and this is a very serious part of the programme, by the nature and content of the Agency, on the part of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u91	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. Senator. The decision to deliver the radio bill remains to be made permanently from the 17800s. down to 16,400k. That's what matters about the future of The Kingdom Radio. I just agree with what. Senator. They call things the right names. The fact that these differences are being handled in these two numbers that we refer to, on the other hand, a radio charge this year and the coming year, is not to be made. It's not being permanently corrected by this conditional contribution, I agree completely with what he says here. Then there's the other, and I think it's important what happened at the highest level. Minister of Education, that we need access to the Kingdom Radio Service Convention. It's very important. Hv. The chairman of the budget board said here: We are not supposed to be conducting the national radio. Yes, of course we will. We are doing so with these financial decisions. There we set the box, and we are also to be able to get access to a discussion of the main objective of a service contract made at The Kingdom News, not on details, but on the main points. That's why I was already rejoicing over it. A minister of education said that a service contract would be presented here at the General Assembly - and not just introduced, but we could discuss it. I think it's very important. But it remains that contributions are being made to the Kingdom Hall. I agree with what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u92	A respectable president. We agree that it is necessary to discuss the broad lines here at the council when it comes to community institutions, such as the State Radio. There is no doubt in my mind. But it's going to be held in this hall, in the form of a minister coming here with the service contract, coming in with a report, and we're taking it here for what we want to do with these things. But a narrow, unique directive on which plans are to be made based on the World Council or what capitals exactly from year to year, which is so additionally addressed to the others and these projects on the part of a financial committee - I do not speak of when considering their history of threats to the Agency, the State Radio, has been allowed to share half of the head of a legal committee - is totally unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u93	V.E.G. President. I want to use these last words to make sure that we agree on that, me and what. A senator, that the remainder of the radio rate is being cut off from 17,800k. down to 16,400k. What is called an additional donation and is no additional donation is an obligatory contribution to be used outside the Agency. That's the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u94	A respectable president. I'm going to make two things a subject because I don't want to extend this discussion too much. On the one hand, I must be glad that there has been an agreement on a lawsuit of disabled people and the expense of serving infirm people in rural areas. Because of what was said. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Thor Þórðarson's son in the past should remind us that there were no redials in the transfer of the group. In itself, he was brought little and nothing impaired in spite of cutbacks during the last term to the countryside. In a two - year period for translocation, services to disabled persons had only been cut two.6% because the case had been specifically spared incision. Then the process was made that after the transfer, the real cost would be covered. So we get a group of paints under a cutout requirement by moving it to a local community. It is a pleasure to have succeeded and commended the government for her reviewing with her rural society to find out the real cost. I think the additional amount of money needed was within the limits of what man originally expected and that's done quite well. On the other hand, I'd like to give a little thought to the State Radio. I'm worried about what it's like after the last news. I'm concerned that the conference will be the second year in a series of series, the Government Radio will give a clear answer to the directors of the coming year until the last days of Congress. It is impossible to ask anyone to run an institution in such a way that they do not know what the executives are until a few days before Christmas. The Agency has been working on the basis of a promise of a regular radio charge since April. It turns out they don't meet. I welcome the highest. The minister has said it's time to enter the council with a service contract, and we can discuss it at the council. I want to know about that from the highest level. Minister, what's the meaning of that? In view of the 170 million additional initiatives that now come in, I feel that we do not have to see a major cut there. We will need to see, though, that there will be other areas in which the cutting requirement is met. Government directors have said that this is an interval of between 175 million and 400 million, according to my cookbooks of over 200 million that then need to be cut down. I'm alone in saying that the cut-off knife will take on what we love most about its State Radio, a service in the country, a national program, and some service to children. I know we share that opinion, chief. Minister of Education and I, because we've often talked about these are factors that are important, especially services to children, in times when Icelandic people are under attack as never before. I just want to talk to the highest. Minister on how he envisions that this cooperation agreement will enter the council. Will this be so that the financial ramifications set out here will be the outer limit of what the Council may be asked for by the State TV or will this be so that the council can list the priorities, and then the administrative issue will be prepared to finance it thereafter? This is a basic question. Is it so that we need to put a list within the narrow financial frames this has been set or is it possible to approach the subject since we list priorities? To me, priorities are totally clear. They are alert to the culture, i.e. ensures that Channel 1 can play its part, ensures that Channel 2 can continue to rock Icelandic music that it has been and supported by the vast export value we have in Icelandic popular music, ensures that the national television can show us Icelandic material, can meet the needs of children and news transmission is not confined to the capital area, but is active far and wide around the country. I'm willing to participate in professional work at the council and in discussions about a cooperative agreement that includes the application of these responsibilities. Then, too, there is a need to be prepared to finance it. I am deeply concerned with the example that has been created by the fundamental violation of democratic guidelines that took place on the financial needs of the state radio. I also want to say officially here that I feel perfectly normal that we in the management situation communicate with an international representative organisation, such as the Council of the Council of Europe, in what way the administrative body has abused its authority against the State Radio, after threats from the management section of the State TV. There is good reason to draw the attention of international institutions that the present government has come to a very high level of ice against what is called democratic government. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u95	A respectable president. Some things. What would be involved in what I think is new here, that we are about to accept the service agreement, of course, is that if we do, members of Congress can express their views if we, for example, do. did this in the form of a discussion of a report. The minister continues to be required to make the contract. He's on the secretary's responsibility. I'm not changing it or suggesting a change in it. But I believe it is true that the council has the opportunity to comment on such a deal. I think that it would be fine if the discussion were to be done before the contract was signed, so that the minister, according to the incident, might accept the views, if convenient, into such an agreement. Of course, he would have to be within the framework established by the Council by law in terms of funding for this institution. For example, we can continue to discuss what that means if the council feels that some priority is needed, which requires additional expenses. I don't know if that means anything in cash or just for the next loans. That's a second matter. A respectable president. I'll come to another subject, but I'd like to point out that in terms of the text contained in the report on the focus of the individual trades, I've said in public that I intend to put it into the Service Convention for these funds to be spent in this way. There's no intervention into the state radio business. It is a normal part of the service agreement, and it is already a provision in the contract, where the percentage is about how much of the government's enterprise should go to such things. I don't think you should read too much of this item text in this regard. [[The president calls.]] This is in a hurry to what has been done in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u96	A respectable president. I welcome this explanation to the highest degree. Minister. First of all, the service contract. I view these projects in itself as a matter of concern to us, and he explains that they need to be financed, of course, and of vital importance that we do so and discuss with ourselves a sense of interest in the chamber on public radios owned by the nation. The other thing that means a lot to me, too, is the comment in the report. I share interest in the highest. A minister says that just as Channel 2 supports music and music, the state TV supports independent filmmaking and is an important buyer. That's the best part. I understand the Minister's words so that in this report there is no hole inside, like a whale. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson was worried about earlier. Rather, this in itself is merely a reference to the policy that there is a set of things that are going to be involved in domestic entertainment. It can also be said that the Agency still needs to be seriously cut down. The danger is that what happens first to the scalpel, and I'd like to ask the minister to answer it in the second answer if he is most valuable to us; service to children and territory. How can we cope? That, of course, is the most costly and difficult thing to possess. How do we react to this until we can complete our contract with new responsibilities in the sense that we will be able to care for other sheep?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u97	A respectable president. I don't want to respond in a short way to this sobering question. A senator, but I'd like to mention one thing that matters to me in the discussion. The 2015 budget expected a financial gain of 3,663 million. Let us see what this will look like next year for the Kingdom News. The next year, when we add the 175 million with the 60 million that are likely due to morepayers, the figure is 3,725 million. So there will be an increase between years. In addition to this increase, the fact is that by means of the Kingdom News, valuable property and construction rights there can be expected that at least 1.5 billion will come to the TV that then goes to pay off debts, even more, even higher numbers are at some point. This means that on a yearly basis the Kingdom News budget reduces about 90 million that are useful to the program. As I said earlier, it is not possible and neither fair nor perfunctory to come here and say that the state radio is being cut down from this year on. On the other hand, it is true that the radio rate declines from 17,800 to 16,400 K, but these measures conflict. It will be a continuing task for the council to discuss how they want to handle this, but at least for the next year, this is the situation. I'm telling you, there's not exactly the effects of this decrease in debt yet, but I know that it's in part, then I'm talking about the 90 million. But I think there's a far more common convergence at the council on the importance of Our Kingdom News than there are at times when it comes to discussion, especially the importance of cultural factors. I think he's the factor that's been growing up here in recent losses and years, his importance. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what I'm thinking about, about the subject, about the nation's culture and history and all the factors that we in the law have to do with the state radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u98	A respectable president. On these figures, however, it is to note that, in general, donations are made from year to year, and it sounds to me as compared with the comparisons, these contributions are hardly in terms of compensation. What is then absolutely right by the highest level. A minister is that it may be larger than what often seems on the surface of the Kingdom News issue. I have discussed with the minister ways to defend the news agency attacks so that she can function in order to maintain her neutrality as well. Sisterhood agencies in neighboring countries can be arranged to protect her from neutrality, large branches in Danmark Radio, and BBC, who are responsible for the neutrality of Jehovah's Witnesses. Those who slow down may give us guidance on this subject and even care for it, so that no one needs to be afraid of it. Then there is the cultural role that is invaluable. I have to say here that I want the highest. A minister who has made known in his comments about being behind the State Radio. I'd like to say that in the wake of a collapse, middle politics has gone away. One form of it is that the state radio that had friends in many political groups is now out of touch with independent and forward groups. I remind you of the fine interview with Matthías Johannessenur in Visa, which I recently referred to in my discussion about the Kingdom News earlier this week. There he traced the importance of the Kingdom News to Icelandic culture and to an Icelandic nation in the past, present, and future. I would like to encourage the civilist states of the U.S. Independence Party to begin taking in that message now, protecting and applying for this important cultural agency of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u99	Madam President. The foam around the Development Agency continues at the hands of the government. It turns out that the budget had forgotten to change the word of the development organization that was laid down yesterday. I have always felt that, however this is the case, variations should always be given to allow proposals to be made, even when there is a hope for them. But I'm going to let myself go away from that princely burden to continue my opposition to this evil scheme of the government, and I will therefore vote for this time against its arrival. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u100	A respectable president. I'm only going to be rights, because this vote came up a bit unexpectedly, that it's like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson said in the past, the European Development Agency was submitted yesterday, and, of course, changes must be made for the budget on which the Agency can continue working, right? The proposal is merely to change the name, and the budget changes from Iceland's Development Cooperative Agency to the general development team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u101	Sometimes you can...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u102	Madam President. I'm here to say hello to 3rd. funds to briefly comment on my view of the proposed changes in State Radio ohf, i.e. that they will be given an extra amount of money. The report with the Committee's article is supported by a section of the budget board that should be submitted to national programs. It was shown by the highest. The Board of Education and Culture Ministers in the past, to give the right way to highlighting government when it comes to the molding of the topic conference for the State Radio, is in the hands of the Government Board of the Kingdom News elected here at a council that has the law to shape agendas and, on the other hand, through the Supreme Service Convention. Minister at the agency. First, I want to say that there is, of course, the right thing to do when discussing decisions that are about to determine exactly how to set matters in the Operation of the Kingdom News. It's through contracts of the highest order. Minister, and he explained earlier that he wanted to report to the council on the contract and I think it's the best part, of course it's the administration of the Agency or the company, or what we would like to call this role formally. I think it's odd to see this recommendation here. A great deal of the budget can have a view of this, but of course it has the right to decide. I think it's very important that they say it here, and that's the best I heard. A minister would agree with my understanding. Then I'd like to say, however, that I don't feel like giving money to the State Radio in this way. If I recall the approval of the forwarding party council, it was specifically said that the radio fee was the natural financing way and that it should flow into the Agency. The natural means for financing is that the State Radio has a special source of income. He used to be used for use, but after a large discussion here in 2007, he agreed to propose this most blessed radio charge. The minister of the Independence Party, the Þorgerður Katrín of Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter. The idea was that the State Radio was based on a special income stock and had a presumption set. No matter how much the income stock needs to go through budgets at any given time, it is still that if a common understanding is in the council that this is the income market, the Kingdom News will be prepared to provide a measure of leadership. They can predict which radio fee is and plan for long periods of time. What's shocking about this is that the State Radio had legitimate expectations for declarations at the highest level. Secretary here this spring that the radio fee would not be dropped. Plans are being made to ensure that the price will not be reduced. I strongly disagree with the conclusion that there was a fall from that concept and to the highest level. A minister has not received support for his bill because I feel that this is an enormous chaos in the affairs of the State Radio. Of course, it's not an acceptable job when it comes to this institution, which is an important cultural institution but also an important community and democrating agency, so I'll witness again in the approved last National Assembly Conference, which concluded on the State Radio. I'd like to present this position first and foremost. I don't think it's the right method. Rather, we should agree that the bill of radio is the source of income given to the TV. We should try to agree on the amount of that currency and that the income product is not changed only at certain times so that there is a presuppose for financial support to the Government Radio. With the highest. I'd like to mention here what we've only discussed in these discussions about the budget, how amazing it is that we're going to have every budget talk standing here and arguing about the State Radio. It's the highest. A minister for him as a solution for the long term, to avoid this annual debate about The Kingdom News, to go as many of our neighbors have gone to the North countries as it is to make some sort of covenant for the State Radio that would be won in cooperation with groups at the General Assembly, and also in cooperation with other members of the community? It's not our personal thing, it's a public radio, it's our nation's property. We are indeed representatives of the nation, but also of certain ideology and political viewpoints, and it is important to have as many people at this table so that we could try to make peace with the State Radio without necessarily allowing national conventions to be determined there. It's the highest. Will a minister be willing to take advantage of that? I reiterate at the end of my short talk that I don't think this is a good practice, I don't think they're to be followed, and I disagree with them. I'm sorry that we can't agree here that the radio fee is satisfactory, that we can't be on top of it. Ministers who made a suggestion for something else and try to ensure that they are at peace with the State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u103	A respectable president. First, with regard to the financial resources set out by the state radio next year, and the security of it, etc. To point out the following points: The budget of the current budget for 2015 is assumed to have 3,663 million for provision. If we take that number and we add it up to 2.5%, which is not an unusual requirement, the figure is 3,754 million. As we now examine the situation, provided that these 175 million will be approved, the Kingdom News will have a provision for the next year 3,725 million. How is that given? Yes, it is the original figure proposed in the budget bill plus 175 million, plus 60 million that will be added for more currency. It's on a pair. I think it would have been a few million dollars between what would have been if the amount of money was maintained this year, merited 2.5%, and what we then sent to the State Radio for next year's appointment. That's the situation, a respectable president. Hv. A senator here gives quite an interesting note, a covenant for the media and the media to the Norwegian role model. I had a brief meeting with the minister of culture in Denmark, where I studied among myself how they were firm on the issue. So I'd like to say that if the idea I've tore up here goes by then I think it would be a step in that direction as far as I'm concerned. There's a senator here, i.e. First, this service contract is accepted into the council, preferably before it is signed so that the senators can make comments and opinions of the covenant before they are abandoned, although they are of course responsible for each session of education and culture. I'm sure it's a matter of time to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u104	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the information, but they do not change the fact that the State Radio has made plans based on the introduction plans. It is not an acceptable position for any institution to have such uncertainty as having promises of a certain amount of money, working out plans according to the amount that will not be successful. There has to be a higher perspective in general budgets. This is especially true of the public media, which is needed for special reasons that we considered here at 2 Cor. Money to be more independent of the budget than traditional government agencies. This is a discussion we've taken several times in this hall, and the conclusion has been that it's normal, e.g. When we agreed on a bill on the State Radio 2007 and again in 2013. It is natural that a publicized medium has greater independence from the government than from traditional institutions, and it is therefore important to have an independent income stock. I'm asking the highest. In return, a minister would not agree that the radio fee will lead to the future under the operation of the Kingdom News. I just don't think it's the right thing to do that we're at the General Assembly to to swerve some special balls to State Radio. I completely disagree with this job song around the public radio. It's the highest. Minister in agreement with me? I also rejoice that he is prepared to make more cross-cutting comments on the State Radio and asks him if he agrees that it is not only to be held here in the Generals' wall but also in the community. That's what the Kingdom News has been doing, they've been traveling around the country, they've been conducting a radio convention, and they've been talking to the people in the country who are also an important part of the work of the Kingdom News.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u105	A respectable president. Of course, there is a significant problem with the State Radio. He's grown, including. due to the increase in pay this year and the next. That is why they called for a report and an opinion of their finances, and we know more now and appreciate the situation in the past. Because of what? A member of the council asked me specifically about promises, of course, that this would be my opinion, but it would never be possible to tie the hands of the Generals. Hv. A senator knows, of course, that the funds are here. I have provided a solution and feel that this solution is acceptable for the next year. I point out that the next year's project will be estimated in a very similar roleum, a few million will fail, as it is this year with compensation. This adds to the fact that every year the Kingdom News will cover a down payment on its debt or pay off because of the property rights sale, resulting in a decrease in budget of about 90 to 100 million dollars per year. K. which will be added here. This does not change the big question as a dog. A senator asks that the radio fee itself and the context of things. I understand exactly what happened here during the last term. I know what last government's problem was. I know exactly why they took action. On the other hand, when I wondered when I decided to take part of the radio fee into the state business whether it would have been luckier for this case to lower the radio charge than to raise some taxes against if the government needed more money than to set up an example that I don't think was good after that, to make an example that would be a violation of the radio fee on the other hand, and on the other hand, a financial contribution to the radio. This is a matter we can discuss here. I reiterate that I understand why, but I've wondered so much about whether there's not been a bad example.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u106	Mr. President. Yes, it was an unfortunate example. However, it was not the last government that established it but the government of the Independence Party and the United States, which was sitting here in the fall of 2008 when everything collapsed and then there was no mood. A senator joined by that government. Then it was decided to eliminate this limitation, and it continued until the one here suggested that it be changed, and the radio rate was rendered uninformed to the State Radio. I would have wanted, and myself would have said, repeatedly, that it had gone through sooner. It was supposed to go into effect on January 1, 2014, and it was then delayed by the government of today, but now it's going nowhere to the radio. I agree that this was not a suitable example. However, there was an emergency for the Independence Party and the Union in 2008 to search for any means of emergency because of the state - of - state situation. As a result, I have said that I fully understand that this was a decision, a government that made that decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u107	But she thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u108	And she continued until it was changed by the one represented here and by the more part of it, including the forward - to - be members of the House of forwarders and the Independence Party. Some of them opposed that decision during the last term, but not all of them. The result of 2007 and 2013 was that the right prince was that the radio rate should depend on the State Radio Administration and that we should not be here handing money in particular to State Radios. Since this has been done, it has not usually proved to be good, any more than here. The decision of the government in the autumn of 2008 can be reasoned with a specific emergency, but when we took here a serious talk about the State Radio of 2007 and 2013, the majority of the council in both cases came to the conclusion that this was the right way. I'm going to hope to the highest. A minister will take advantage of the political figure that there is eventually being assigned money to the State Radio on the last record because the radio rate does not remain under the operation soon. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u109	Mr. President. I'm going to start by repeating the birthday bad things I've already done. paritaprevir Lord Guðlaugur Þór, son of Þórðarson. I also wish that he had a long, happy life ahead of him and many happy birthdays. But I hope that he will never ruin his own birthday again by giving a speech of the kind that he spoke here earlier today. She talked mainly, I felt, and the rest of that speech, about how he felt the last government had succeeded, how unmannerly he felt, as he said, her priorities have been. Now I would have counted that milestone, both in my life. A senator, as well as when we're here to accept a budget that could have been very good, considering the better-looking kinder at the moment. Perhaps a senator should have looked at his own government and his own financial bill instead of spending all his time in the past with enthusiasm. On the other hand, it is probably a way to cheer up on the birthday of one's birthday. A senator by slightly reviewing the priorities of the government that worked under the lead of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and then this as a boy. A senator supports and presiding. Prime Ministers of the Sigmundur of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla. To make this clear, the priorities of the last government were very clear. It was based on trying to cut down what could be cut down. Like what? A senator knows that government was in the midst of a very difficult situation. She received a financial court that opened when the government's income stocks became very sick, fell almost in one week, and caused it to flow through the gaps in the state fund of about 217 billion. This was what that government faced. To talk here like the birthday baby, boy. paritaprevir Gulgiful Þór Þórðarson, who did today, as if it were something to balance the position that the government faced in the face of the crisis today, and the governor calls the annual campaign in the economics of blues; of course, there is nothing to balance and highly improper of them. The members of the board who speak as though it were of pure prejudice and wickedness that the last government took to the inevitable task of trying to cut down the state's culture. Just to review it, you might be reminded that there were few suggestions that we set out here to cut down, which the present government opposition did not understand in either sit down or agree. I don't remember any suggestions we made when we pressured them to stand up to a great resistance here during the high Council, at least not at the top of it, and not at all in 2009. But, as I said, our efforts were to cut where might be cut down, where it was easy to cut down at first, and then follow us also to other more difficult classes. Likewise, our goal was to try to defend the worst. Just to recall, it was in the Union that six emissaries and the embassy were closed. It was in the history of the Union and the previous government that they were certainly about to cut down certain items in the social security system. How was this done? Yes, I'm going to begin by reviewing that when the government of Independence and the United States sat at the head of Geir H. Haardes, she promoted a dramatic decline in the social security and pension system. They were taken from 45% to 38%. Hence, it was at that time that they rejoiced as a very important step. That's what that government did. However, what the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir did was to restore the decline back to its former state. In other words: Despite all that was no greater than the fact that they had been the best in the republican history before the beginning of the Geir H. Haardes government in 2007. That's all there was to it. There are other things we did too. We've covered the only ones on the edge of the system. There was nowhere to move a crown. So it's completely clear, and hadn't it? paritaprevir I'm sure Ásmundur Friðriksson likes me to review that story, then it was that when a bargain deal was made here in the middle of 2011, that rise was passed over the social security system. When men agreed to the agreements at that bargain deal, 51 points. K. It also covered the elderly and the desperate. Just so it's in the way. So the priorities of that government were that we cut down the embassy, cut down the foreign service, cut down offices, and covered the worst. I refer to two words. The members of the board who have agreed, please. paritaprevir I'm Karl Garðarsson's son and wah. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. It was the priorities of the last government. How, though, is the priorities of this government? Yeah, we'll see what. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson believes that it is his special job to participate in the first of all, in creating a new government agency called the Management Board of Travels, which is aside from two other traveling institutions. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson here is going to help open a embassy in Strasbourg, which I shut down in my time to save the taxpayers' money. Hv. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson also intends to share in creating a new office, the builder of the State. This fine man. paritaprevir The God - dishonoring Þórðarson, who was condemning the priorities of the former government, comes here and loads of fat laws on the outside. It's a past time, I say. The same is true of young men. paritaprevir Gullful Þór Þórðarson, along with all his associates in the management team, will strike down, as he has strawed down from day to day, the suggestions for rearreaching ups to the poor and the elderly. Well, this is his priorities. Let us see in what way this is followed. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson responds to that suggestion. But it's not just that, Mr. President. The priority order is also expressed at the same time. The members of the board come here with their eyes frayed by the crocodile's tears, and they say they really want to support the elderly and desperate, but the government's funds are money free, they don't have money to support these groups in the same way as fair, what's happening on the other table? I guess. paritaprevir For example, Ásmundur Friðriksson realizes that this has quietly passed through the General Assembly during the past two days of a change in the tax system, which in effect involves the transfer of funds through taxation in the income tax system to those who are in need at least? As far as I can see, there are three and a half billion changes here that have been made in a balance. To whom can they best be used? Men like me. People with 700 points. K. And to make money. The tax changes are also being made where one step is being taken out of the tax system. [[Up front.]] Lord faithful, how much? Has a what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson realized that? It's six and a half billion. To whom can they best be used? Men with 700,000 bucks. And over it in a month. [[Up front.]] But those who had it. paritaprevir In any case, Ásmundur Friðriksson has said that he prefers the breast, the low - paying people, the elderly, and the poor, those under 240 you have. K. In a month, they won't get anything out of this. Nothing. There are men like Ásmundur Friðriksson and I who, when these system changes are through, after two years, get the equivalent of 12,000 bucks a month. This is the priorities of this government. She's setting up a embassy for the highest power. The Minister of Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson sets aside two other agencies for the Ragnhönski Ragnheiður Elín of Árnadóttir. A travel minister, and it establishes a new office of the State Master for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. But what does it do for the elderly and the desperate? The only groups are suspended, set aside, and prevents them from being reinvented. That's right, then, because of what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson makes me the honor of listening to my case, of reviewing key facts in this matter. We've come up here anyway. The members of the board spoke of how much they have done during this ideal time for the elderly and the desperate. What have they done? First of all, they, when all is calculated and taken away from the tax, have added the equivalent of 10,000 k. That's the fact. And in the midst of the blues are the elderly, and the poor, who are in the streets of war, after taxes have been taken to account, to live at 172 thoust. K. per month. If we go back a little bit. I was talking about a 10,000-dollar addition. for older people and disability, but when you take into account that last year's pay went into effect here, we can draw 4,000 bucks. of this increase. The remaining striped $6,000 is left. which has been added to the benefits of the elderly and the disability of the elderly. This is what this government is doing for the elderly and the desperate. I wouldn't have come here to celebrate this Mass over what? A senator except because the day's birthday boy spoke of that government having a different priority than the last one. I think that's what. The members of the board should speak with caution about the fact that the last government has used rage and fire against certain social groups or has cut down as if it were meddling. We simply faced a situation that could not be fixed in a way that we did. Now, however, there is another one. Now it's the highest. Secretary of the budget calls it a charity. That's right. V.E.G. The minister of finance enjoyed the good fortune of receiving a well - arranged government fund. The situation is simply so that when he accepted the Kingdom Fund, his interests had improved substantially from year to year for three years. But now it's got the highest. For three years now, the secretary of finance is in charge of the government as well, and what do we see? They're all in the same outfit. State debt is not being paid down in terms of a good name, no, it's not being paid off. [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u111	It's not. There is no leftover that has been used to do so. This is noted many times in the Commission's list of parts, including the national economy program. A minister made it a significant point last year, and we reasoned here, that there will be no decrease in the debt of the state because the state funds will contribute to it, not until 2019. It's just that way. As long as I could read the text to the highest degree. A minister has now been able to state matters clearly. I'm not going to talk much about Land Hospital, Mr. President. There's been three issues here. For the elderly, for the disability and for the recovery of the condition. They're not supposed to have them. As to whether the Landspians should have what they need, they have been strongly convinced that in order for them to stay gone since the last year, it will need 2.9 billion. Well, it can be added to the government that it has agreed to squeeze out an additional 1.2 billion. And then there's VOLV. Hv. paritaprevir And chief of the slaughter of the government, Guðleur Þórðarson, with his voice. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, has made it his special subject to take the highest priority. Minister of education, and hang it like a wet towel on the cable. They have succeeded. On the other hand, it has to say that it is equal to the highest. A minister of education is quite remarkable. He comes here in one speech after another, opens his hands, and speaks as if it were a special reason for joy. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - Þór of Þórðarson's son has succeeded. I'm afraid this is the subject of another speech, Mr. President. I've only a few seconds to go on this, but it's the highest. The Minister of Education has all my sympathy and all my support in the battle against the trolls. But the rest I must say is that the priorities of this government are one way. [[The president calls.]] It is with those who have enough food to bite and burn, but unfortunately, the rest are the ones who become leftover size.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the congratulations. Everyone heard a talk. A senator says he feels guilty. He feels very guilty. I get it. Just because I've said that and know that many of them have a guilty conscience, the project was difficult for them to solve. On the other hand, there are a few, especially whiskers. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who must speak clearly. Now he must accept what he did. Why did that improve? During both percentages and in numbers, a member of the foreign affairs fell far beyond the average of health care savings? In case of a moment. A senator loves older citizens, who care about health, why did he add to his foreign affairs? Why did he give in to the need for improvement in the environment? You'd be in the surveillance department? Would you improve the work of the Ministry of State, which increased by 287%, with adult figures? Just the EU application cost a billion, 1,000 million. At the same time, trouble will be tested. A senator would have us believe that they were cutting where they could be cut. Couldn't they cut it? What patient benefited from this. A senator dented in foreign affairs? Is it 1000 million in EU attendance? [[The president calls.]] What patient or pensioner benefited from this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u113	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. Senator I'm feeling a little guilty. This is due to two things. I feel guilty that I had stuck with him on his birthday, but I had no choice from his speech, where he stoned hand grenades out here in a wide range of places. For the best of my life, I also felt guilty when I looked back that at the time when we had an incision to the Land Hospital, it was under the sign that there should not be any notice there. It was to be taken through the workers' ease. In the end, it was found that, as we have discussed earlier, the least of those, perhaps the lowest in the area, the people who were working on cleaning and such activities, were abandoned. There was something that wasn't supposed to be done, and I regret it, I feel guilty about it. But I don't feel guilty about anything else. It's just nonsense like that. A senator claims that there was an enormous increase in funding in the Ministry of State in my time. On the contrary, as you can read the answers to various inquiries, the embassies were written down to the bones, embassies, and emissaries. Whatever it is. A senator is talking about and, of course, is an EU application. He is absolutely right that it cost money. However, the fact is that the EU application saved tens of billions of people. This was because we became an application state that prevented this from setting up a business ban that would have resulted in our inability to export seafood, so it was probably the most economic and practical operation during the last term. It was an investment that probably won 20 times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u114	A respectable president. I can't take it any other way, so it's just a talk for my birthday. That's the way the compromise was. If anyone believes we've saved tens of billions of dollars by injecting endless money into this EU application because otherwise we had been grounded, well, there's no sense of humor. It was quite fun, though. Senator. Of course, it's hilarious to argue that the EU application saved us money. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has confirmed what we know, has a guilty conscience. Of course, it was completely pathetic, even though I knew that it was a good idea for many members of Congress and hopefully all, that this is how it was cut down. It is absolutely pathetic that certain agencies, surveillance agencies, as well as Food and Food Institutes and what they are, should be out of control as long as health matters were taken care of, as it really is. It's also pathetic to be pumped into foreign affairs and environmental matters while patients were bleeding. That's the severity of it. But let us learn from this. Hv. A senator is, naturally, one of the senators I expect. Once the contributions to pensioners have been raised by 27 billion per year from the start of this government. A senator is familiar with this. Right away. A senator knows that the contributions to health were higher for this 32 billion adjustment, if not 33 billion at that time. A senator talking about those things as they are. Hv. A senator has more knowledge of health than most of them do. If you have a sense of humor, you have a serious subject, but this with the EU is what stands out today, to argue seriously that it saved money is very funny. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u115	Mr. President. I do not expect that after our exchange of words, I will be asked to give a talk on my birthday. A senator, and so must be. I had also assumed to be somewhere else. But the point is that it is quite remarkable. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þórðarson's God-given son should remember nothing. It has been only two or three years since this event, and he argues that the EU's application did not become an economic product, away from what I think is the greatest benefit, that we have managed to ward off the attack that was imminent for Iceland's commercial interests. Then I'm going to take less of it. A senator owns what was one of the greatest bites at the end of his last terms. It was the IPA. I'm going to take less of it. A senator said that they were offered 6.5 billion. The attendance of the Member States led to the land's arrival in a well - sought foreign currency of 6.5 billion as well as 6.5 billion. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir in famous form called croissants and drew long trails to the Kingdom Radio that is ending here today. [[Up front.]] Mr. President. This would mean, in effect, that the application cost 1,000 million, like a dog. A senator said earlier, but in return came at a concentration of 6.5 billion. Aside from what I know, no one knows better than that. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, that the applicationstatus made it possible for us to push away the attack that was due us, the blow that was supposed to be paid by setting a business ban on us. I know that she knows others better. [["Icezave."]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u116	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna have a long speech, because I've been giving it here before. But only if it is recorded in the Senate, and corrected by the former governments, they were taken care of and tried to see that the lowest paid people in health care would not be laid off and that, in fact, they would be set up in general welfare services, people would not be laid off in service. When the loss of 500-600 jobs in the Land Hospital and elsewhere in the medical care sector occurs, it becomes a staff emergency. In large areas of work, the natural causes of things happen, people quit their jobs, and when jobs are not filled in place. It was shocking how much this was, but it was true of all employees, high - paying, and low - paying ones, and especially of those who were in low wages, that they were tried to avoid their resignations. I think it went along. Then I'd like to say about foreign emphasis that I've wanted to reduce my donations to NATO. We spend too much money on NATO. We spend too much money in the European Union and its institutions connected and are being added to Brussels. But I am especially glad that this is the time to set up a embassy in Strassburg. It's the capital of human rights. Although it has been done for savings in the past government to reduce our donations to this capital of human rights in Strasbourg, it is a very good decision now being made to add. We are the only member of the European Parliament who does not have an office in Strasbourg. It should be one of the central points of a Icelandic foreign policy to have our contribution in the field of human rights as the most powerful of all. So I'm glad it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u117	A respectable president. I want to say here a few words at the end of the discussion, and first thank you for your cooperation with the committee, a financial committee for changes this time that are considerably and perhaps unusually high above the council winter right down to the last hour here on the last day. But that has been the case when everything is taken care of, and only more, perhaps. I'll explain my opinion at the end of the discussion that we need to get out of what we've been in the budget at the council during this winter and bring the budget talk back to the program so that we can close financial matters earlier, as was always the custom in the past. [[Up front.]] There must be a better agreement between the councils at the council for the overall issues of the discussion. We must not make it a routine for the council to allow the budget to take up to 100 hours. It's easy for me to say this here from the position I am in because it's quite convenient for the government to make this run out quickly. But when it comes to better research, it suits everyone that there is an agreement on how these things work out from year to year. Let us do so in time to try to establish that agreement before any particular legal issue arises and test whether it is possible to restore the Parliament to the right course on this matter. Enough about that. The largest part of this section has considered the major changes that are taking place at 3rd. It is not possible to come here and celebrate especially once and for all the same matter over and over again. But I'm still going to do it from the time we're faced with it, i.e. break-down is very pronounced at 3nd. When we put the tax in the summer, the stable tax, with special laws, we couldn't predict how that case would end, i.e. whether we're going to get and have a real tax base in 2016 or if it's gonna come up for stability. Today, that picture is clear, and it is here manifested to us in that the income side of the state's budget is 338.9 billion. [[Up front.]] Which is, by the way, a total stability spending on the income side of the state's budget. This must be historical news. I would like to express my appreciation for the solidarity that has been held at the council since its beginning as to how we would have to keep this aspect of the matter in mind, i.e. that this will be adjusted wisely so that it will be useful to pay back financial management and that it needs to be considered that it will not be the cause of the expansion. Surely everyone would agree that this is a huge news. This is a successful solution to the worn - out fragments, the closing of which in this favorable manner, a contract made out of them. There is probably no country in Europe that moves on its income side under contemporaneous treatment as much as this. Thus, for the first time in history, the total income of the State goes to over 1,000 billion. It is not to be expected to happen again in 2017, since it will remember much of this on its own. But I can't help passing on the incredible news in this for us and a great opportunity if the right to pass the government's money to a very long future will benefit, so that, for example, the weight of interest would be much smaller. This may lead me to the point that I especially wanted to discuss, which is the position of the state's financial affairs after all. What, then, is the situation in the financial affairs? The situation in my mind is this: We have mastered the terms of government, so for the third time we have a baseless budget. The result has been considerably higher than the expectations of the past two years, and perhaps three years. But here we are again, with unscrupulous financial laws. So we have mastered the fact that we have stopped collecting debt. That's a good thing. Nevertheless, the overall survival of the government, State, and rural society at this place in the economy is really unacceptable. She's not enough. Why is that? It's very important to realize that. This may be the main reason why certain spending teams have grown considerably. The currency team that's the largest part of the budget bill when all is taken together is the one linked to the pay force. Remuneration and climate change. In other words, we are making use of the economy to allow for considerable increases in pay. When asked, "Why is it that we have no more money available to stand in the way, bridges, and ports, new structures waiting to be built or maintained, etc.? "? Why do we not have more money to meet the needs of the welfare system, whether in hospitals, in health care, or elsewhere in the welfare system? Why do we not have more funding for further research, science, and the development of new ideas in the scientific community, now or just somewhere else in the educational system? Why is it that we always have to ponder each dollar? Well, that is because, directly and indirectly, we have made the decision to use so much of the space to improve the terms and agreements. We've been writing and performing this year, so much of the time, the brotherhood of all the room that has been created has been paid. There is an increase in salary as much as there has now been a significant increase in compensation. They're raising now as we know about 9.7%. It can be said that the results of the Society's response to growth are being directed to the State to find a better scope for all these increases. In fact, the bat has said with interest and the message they've been following them: It's being done too much at once. In fact, if the pay is to be increased, there is a need to be cut down to make room for it. We're not doing it here. We're trying to make it work, so we get this tremendous change of some kind of soft landing. We will continue to have good cooperation, I hope, with the labour market partners. We will make great efforts to continue our cooperation. I refer to this so-called SALEK event in that subject. This will be a real challenge in January, so how can we develop the basis for a smooth landing so that we can get continued work out of the labour contract life span? But it is clear that this will be a very challenging time. When we come back to spring with a national budget program that will look at the next year and then a budget bill for the next fall, we don't expect it to be a huge space to add to a set of budgets. I also want to say, I'm not saying that there's always the right way to do better. There are other methods to consider, to give financial support, to manipulate, and to continue to find ways to manipulate and make use of each dollar as best possible, but to the extent that humans would like to create such space. We will have to. We are forced to do so, among other things because of demographic developments in the country. There are more people coming to a higher age and more pressures both on the health system and on future social security, although others work with us, such as the construction of the pension system. If we want to find this money to do better, the answer is easily found in this financial bill. It is estimated that from the end of the year or from the time we take over the holding parts of Iceland Bank, the state will hold over 400 billion of financial assets. This is a single thing in Western Europe, at least, since I know about it. I don't think there's a country we can find in comparison, where people hold on to state property about 25% of their land productions in financial assets. I'm pretty sure there's no such thing. True, there are cases of government property on financial items, as in Britain, where people are trying to sell themselves again, as well as in the Netherlands and elsewhere. It usually refers to a possession of somewhere around 3How5% of the land's production. We have reached 25% of national production. That's a lot of money. Let us consider, then, what it would mean for us if we were to get rid of these things, these property things, in order to pay off debts. Well, as a rule, it can be said, for every 100 billion people, the cost of interest is at least 5 billion. There is a chance, depending on how far humans would like to cut down forever, at least during the lifetime of these loans, which are staked at the expense of 10 to 15 billion, even 20 billion of their interest costs. That is an enormous amount of room for it every year and forever. It is the right way to make room for many of these investment projects that we need to work on. There are some things in the pipes, and we know that sooner or later we need to make a decision. I could name helicopters for the U.S. Railroad, which will cost billions. I could tell you what I'd like to buy a ferry for Herlf. I could name such buildings as The House of Iceland, a book waiting to rise, and a number of major actions in the road and the like. Not to mention the Land Hospital itself and to be more built on that activity. The way to make room for this is to sell from the government's property side, pay off debt, and what also comes with lower interest costs is a huge loan of the state. The government is also relevant for large companies in the country, from land induction to banks and other larger companies. So it is an enormous interest in the economic system as far as it goes. This will be evident from the long - term predictions we already have, and we will return to the spring months to discuss here in spring's budget that we are in the years ahead with the opportunity to reduce the debt of the state far, far beyond what others may have expected. Far beyond that. This is because of the opportunities I've been here to mention. This is caused by the power of national production, and it is because we have already made decisions that have actually triggered this process. In other words, the debt line is a falling percentage into the next year, and we can do even better. Even so, within a relatively few years, we may again have similar debts to those we had before the collapse, which we all know was a complete prerequisite for us to accept an assignment that has been completed in many lands. This was absolutely essential to our having the trust we owe in the World Bank and neighboring nations that we did not have a lot of debt. It's these very wide lines. Of course, all of this will be discussed. But I think it's a lot of joy. It's a lot of news that we've reached this place in time. Here's the result of the stable tax bill. The tax stock will not be available next year, and it will have a steady supply of historical sums on the income side of the budget. I thank you for your cooperation, but we are waiting to continue our work. The next big job in my mind is to pay off the debt of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u118	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for this fine talk at the end of the discussion. First, though, from what he says about the arrangements of the budget, I want to say that the biggest problem in it this year as well as last year is that of a predetermined date, about the timing of the 2nd year. budget, can't resist on the part of the rest. This is the biggest problem with the treatment, although we have extended the process more than an example in the history; put a council before and make longer. So there is something wrong with the processing process. We just need to discuss in a way that can be handled. Secondly, I agree with the highest. A secretary of finance on the importance of making good use of the great opportunity that we now have, following the success of making use of the contracts against the foreign authorities in order to reduce the debt rate of the State. I agree with the main objective. A minister says that the debt of the State needs to be corrected. I agree that the key to dealing with economic tragedy, as we were able to cope with the crash, was that we lived in a low debt. A small state that is vulnerable to fluctuations and with a weak currency must usually be in poor debt. How important it is, then, that we guard against the temptation that is going to happen now when the position of government gets as much as possible! In his speech, a minister was so quick to shave. It must be our joint responsibility that we do not lose control of that kind of election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u119	Mr. President. It is true that the government's proposals got into too late. But that does not change the fact that the discussion would not have had to be made 100 hours long. It's more of a matter of agreement. There are so many things in this council that we can write about things forever and make rules and write into the Senate how things are going to work out, but after all, it's the will to keep track of certain things like this one that makes the final outcome. I think we agree on that. I'm not gonna deny that the data came too late, suggestions came too late, but we need something to change the procedure. I'll mention here as an example of the second report. I think the members of Congress should talk more about it for the vote so that the vote won't take eight hours or six, seven hours, as it did this time. It's totally unnatural, and it's not necessary. Other than that, I say about the state's budget, once again about the payment of debt: we are facing an opportunity to do what is right and my opinion is that, and I will continue to speak of it, that the Icelanders have a chance to be without clean debts within ten years. None. There are states in the OECD that are in that area and we can look to them. But it's just that if we use this opportunity, let's move on, we can get into that position. No clean debts, and if we add to our persistent business balance, we will have everything that works for us as long as the labour market supports the responsible financial management. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u120	A respectable president. I completely agree with the fact that Iceland is going to be in debt. We in the United States had this motto for the last election: Let's change interest. It's very important that Iceland be in debt or debt. As for the labour market and the work ethic here at the council, that's exactly the case. Minister says, there's nothing we can write ourselves with some form of trouble. Part of what's gone wrong in this season is conversation. There's been no conversation. We're gonna wait here at the board, and then we're gonna get reports late and eventually. There is no conversation in the preparatory phase between government and government. I think that's part of the problem. This will not be the combination that would have to be that would diminish one's appreciation and understanding for one another. The same is true of the workforce. It will not be that common understanding of the basics of the presidents. I think the labour market understands very well what needs to be avoided, and what dangers exist in the pursuit of financial insensitibility and remuneration beyond the growth of national production, etc. However, the conversation must take place because, otherwise, people will be trapped in situations they cannot handle, no matter how good their will is. I think it may be our lesson for the next year, and I'm here to cooperate with the Minister, if he's ready for such a conversation, we're ready to do it. I think it must be the key to some of these ways that he rightly points out the need for us to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u121	Mr. President. Yeah. We will continue to talk, increase the conversation, as is called here. Increase the meetings and talk to each other sooner. But hopefully we will have the best chance to get it into a better course right away at the next assembly. I'm going to discuss the workforce again and draw attention to the fact that today we are also together with the budget to provide laws on public finances that are key laws in this large context. There is more long - term vision and greater discipline on government matters and on public finances that lay the groundwork for this to be a big step forward. No doubt, we will review some of the problems when we begin testing the project. Then it is the workforce and big things are happening. We have a living conversation about basic changes in pensions in order to balance the general markets and public markets, and we also have the will of everyone to try the job market model, the box of the collective agreements. If everything would happen in a three - to - five - year period when we were free of our seas, if we had new laws on public finances, end the money hole, and pay down to a large - scale government debt, so that we're headed for a very low debt and reinvent the labour market, we have certainly worked our jobs, and have turned something to future generations that will remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u122	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a commission about a bill to correct a law on street building fees, no. 153/2006, with subsequent changes (B-hole tax), from the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a meeting with Ólafur Hjörleifsson from the State Department of the Interior. The bill suggests a preliminary provision in the punitive budget, No. 153/2006, which includes the authority of rural communities to provide the so-called B-hole tax, will be extended to the end of 2017, where rural communities are still non-dependable union erosions on the old streets allowed to be financed by the pressures of the currency. The committee agrees with the arguments presented in comments to the bill, but they comment on how late the discussion took place. For a considerable time, it becomes clear that the source would need to be extended. According to the above respected viewpoints, the Commission suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir was away from the hearing. Under certain publications: Höskuldur, son of Þórhallsson, chairman of the committee, Katrín's Júlíusdóttir, Einarsson, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Elín Hirst, Róbert Marshall, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and Vilimmur the Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u123	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill for a law on the State Radio delivered by the General and Education Committee, but this bill is about an account year and a continuation of a validation. The text of the bill itself is rather simple and short, but it's a matter of growth that the Ministry of Education and Culture came to the General Committee and requested that the committee transfer this bill. That's the Department's agreement with the State Radio. Last year, the State Radio Summit agreed to change the criteria for the account year so as to be compared with calendar wounds instead of the season of September 1 to August 31 each year and to convert this bill into the State Radio Act. Then there is the continuation of terms related to the duties of the State Radio in order to run other activities besides social services and business sales in a daughter-mate. This was to be valid on January 1, 2014, but it was postponed for January 1st, 2016, and is now submitted to postponement. EFTA has made a decision in September 2013, with the decision being made by means of the transfer to Article 4. It is the law to move the financial and legal environment of the RUS to the EEA's administrative policies by separating competitiveness from social services with partners. In order to enable RUSH to prepare for this necessary change, this is here suggested that the execution be postponed until January 1, 2018. I'm hoping this bill will get started at the council, but it's the General and Education Committee that will handle this case here, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u124	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from December 19, 2015, or later, if necessary, to January 19, 2016. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u125	A respectable president. Today, the nation is on a crucial scale, for we are legally establishing a contract for stability that this government made with the demands. It is a successful outcome, and it is a pleasure to be a part of this remarkable event. This is also the first time in the history of the nation that total revenues on the base of the network exceed 1 of you. Billions. So, we're here to vote on a very important budget. Thank you for your cooperation with the highest degree. Secretary of finance and the Ministry of finance, as well as my thanks to members of the budget. We joyfully enter our holiday with these fine financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u126	A respectable president. It is certainly a turning point when we make budgets in which business income covers 1 of you. How humans handle the scope of their years is of vital importance to billions of people. Here again, members of Congress will have an opportunity to vote by ensuring pension recipients comparable to men and low-payers, making adequate donations in accordance with the wishes of the management and contributions to the Government Radio, which conforms to the nature of the operation, its needs, and freeing it from the huge array of government censorship. We will also vote for a change of proposal that enables our communities to minister to disabled people as expected when the group was transferred to the rural community. [[The president calls.]] Thus, rains and showers will likely be replaced here, but now the members of the members of the board are testing for the last time at this council to show their real will in these justices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u127	Mr. President. The discussion of the budget has been focused on this year because it has been long, but it has also been very rich. And there's a reason, here we deal with the way we distribute our burdens and the way we distribute our goodness. This has presented fundamental differences between government and government opposition, and the government has provided clear suggestions on how we can improve the sensitivity of the most vulnerable groups in the community, the desperate and the elderly, and how we can provide an acceptable environment for important community institutions such as the Kingdom Hall and the Land Hospital. How sad it has been to see the administrative part reject these suggestions, and in the case of the elderly and the desperate, there are no compensations! That's sad. But here we see basic political differences, the difference between right policy and socialism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u128	A respectable president. I call attention to the change in my share's proposal, which includes the last chance to ensure that the poor and elderly will have the same elevations as the rest of the collective agreements. Icelandic society is fragile, we're getting up a little bit as we're about to blow into total destruction. It is not the right way to promote solidarity and solidarity in the community to increase injustice or discrimination. The opposite is true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u129	President. A community where only one member of the country enjoys well - being is not a welfare society. There is a medical emergency, a housing market, and so many of those who are ill and who need to be paid from a insurance agency. People find it very difficult to get ahead of themselves. As I have said before, it was known that in itself we do not achieve the results of our smaller parts, we have combined to encourage the more part to carry out the foregone efforts that the poor and older citizens receive comparable dressbacks and so others are paid back, as they were done for us. [[The president calls.]] I just have to say, the only way to change this is to have a different government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u130	A respectable president. I appreciate everybody's problem. Congress members for cooperation, but it says something about this long discussion that the big issue has been mentioned, the biggest case ever. I assure you that no one could have anticipated that such success would be achieved at the highest rate. The government is already coming to the point of passing through the biggest swarms in the snowhand and removing oceans. [[For example: Aged and disability?]] I want to take this opportunity and wish you the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Especially with impressive results, the prime minister is happy. [[Up front.]] This is the prerequisite for a nation that we need to become in debt to because it is necessary for all nations, especially for small nations. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] We should not minimize this great success. However, the situation is fragile, although we are truly on the right track and I hope that in the next budget, we will discuss more priorities and management. We need to lower our costs and taxes, strengthen our basic resources, for that is something we should be able to unite about, but the results are excellent, and we'll wish for the highest power. The government and the nation find happiness in doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u131	A respectable president. In fact, this year, more and less all groups have been rewarded for a hard-hitting fight. Two groups are left behind, and there are older citizens and disability. It's not a great success, so I use the words of the senator who was standing before me in the chair. It is to the extent that this body of Congress and these administrative parts are to be missed. While we were in the government position, we gave firm notice of the improved senior citizens and hoped that they would listen to us. It wasn't. We made a hard fight for the increase of money to the hospital. There we were listened to in about a third, i.e. More than a third of what is believed to be necessary to continue his activities in the hospital. Third, we took a hard fight for State Radio. There's a small amount of money coming in, too. [[The president calls.]] This is as good news, but it was taken away from the beating. That we have not been listened to in terms of seniors and disability is sad, and I have to say for the moment that I hope the members of the council here will listen to their conscience when they vote for the change presented below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u132	Mr. President. I'd also like to thank my colleagues and members of the Committee on Fundamental Cooperation in the winter, which has been a bit tight and on chapters of a bit hard to deal with, but here we deal with basic ideas in the political, the left, and the right. The cake is not properly divided, priority is not correct, much of the tax administration is directed to those who have it better in the community at the expense of less income. The change in the income tax system is a good example in this direction. The economy and the stability are at the expense of those with less, older citizens, disability, and other low-payers. I find these cold greetings to these groups, and I sure hope that the only opportunity left is before the newth party is shut down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u133	A respectable president. Already, it is our job here to raise from poverty to the worst. The fact is, although we live in Iceland well, there are groups of people who live in such a bad way. I'd also just like to criticize my work on the budget. A vast number of modifications were made until the last day. This work does not give evidence of discipline or clear governmental policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u134	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the cooperation of a financial committee. It's been very valuable and maybe a little jump into the deep pool, as you say, starting with the council by going to a financial committee. This has been a tough time for you. This discussion has been very long and difficult, and much has been done. I think it's a good thing if we have to rethink how we want to distribute the tax money the state collects. I also want to use this opportunity to encourage the United States of America to accept less than 15 million. K. The requirement for U.S. councilman for initiative studies, as well as to remind me that at the Commission on Information Enlightenment there is a limp to be corrected so as not to be taken up by the U.S. Marshal's initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u135	Mr. President. With 2016 funding, the payoff rate for the state's funds decline from collapse for the first time from year one to year. In this regard, we look past the stability efforts that are not to be used for the operation of the State. If we look past it, the quality of life is shrinking for the first time from collapse, and that is news. These are also the financial laws that make decisions to increase the balance on the income side by changing the income tax system as well as by keeping the elderly and the micropiers of the poor in society. The National Hospital is to be cut down about 1 billion because there are no money left in a number of patients and then the State Radio is to be starving. I'm not going to be happy from here today unless the changes in my share will be accepted. Then I'll lose a lot of weight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u136	A respectable president. I agree with those who have talked about being here for a long time today when we now have a change of plans at 3rd. which includes the introduction of funds from foreign demands into financial funds, both in the form of capital and property. This is an example of the defeat of reason. This is not an example of the left or the right; this is an example of the defeat of reason. The idea of taking huge currency loans abroad was to pay foreign vulture funds that would leave the country. The problem is that foreign vulture funds have to give up their assets and funds that we are taking into the budget for 2016. So 2016's budget is the law of wisdom that finally conquered the irrationality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u137	In effect, the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon is becoming specialized in abusive speech. V.E.G. When the budget was presented as a welfare law, the prime minister said that these were the welfare laws. There is no way to get away from children's reforms, birth clinics, social security, and the health system, just to be counted as one of the welfare systems. Hv. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson continues here, stating that taxes, economics, and basics will continue to be reduced. We're gonna go for a second. I'd like to say, these are incompatible goals. [[Up front.]] Government groups can save themselves by supporting here with very good changes in the memory of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u138	Mr. President. It's obvious we're here to vote on historical budgets. As noted, the total income of the state is over 1 grade. For the first time, billions of people are the result of a successful ideologies at the decommission of the plague. We are here laying the groundwork with these funding to raise the heads of Icelanders who have rested like a shadow over the whole economy. But these are also the laws of the law, where we continue to lighten our taxes. In order to determine how the people of the land are now getting away from the budget bill that is here elected, one should watch whether the provision of the land's income is growing or not. That's what's satisfying; the provisions continue to grow. All the people of the country are going to get more money next year. Those who have been most loud in a social security discussion should maintain it, in order to maintain minimal reasonableness, that the level of purchase gains grows largely. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u139	A respectable president. There is reason to rejoice over these financial laws, on the increase in financial resources, and on the increase in equations. At the same time that the state is cast without a tilt, driven with leftovers, all community groups are being improved and increased the equation. Sadly, it is not often common to agree that at the same time, all groups will be improved and the equation in the community will be increased. [[Up front.]] For older citizens and disability, they will now have their annual compensations updated to match pay development, in fact to the point of passing the lowest wage for a time until May, and for the next year, older citizens and disability will again be corrected so as to comply with pay development. As a result, the wealth of improvement has never been greater than that of today's budget. Certainly, we can do better than see the way, that is, to follow the course that this government has followed because the cake has never been bigger and has never been equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u140	A respectable president. Here, the smaller item suggests that the price for State Radio is raising about 425 million. K. and it comes from the radio charge, which will be $18.370. I want to reiterate that the way it seems is going to be on top of the board, i.e. The addition of the Kingdom News to financial contributions is not a good way to handle the public radio business. The radio bill is due to the operation, so we suggest that the State Radio receive a natural amount of radio fee. I say yes to this proposal, but it saddens me to see the greater part here that seems to be going to kill her and go on a path that has never been successful when it comes to a public broadcast operation, i.e. setting up extra budgets for that business instead of being a clean income stock. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u141	A respectable president. The Management Board made plans for the next year long ago based on the amount of money proposed here by the Directors of Education and the Directorates of the Governments. Since then, it has been found that these government leaders have neither the power nor the will to fulfill their promises nor to ensure the State Radio of normal management. Instead, the Kingdom News is directed under the threats of the administrative sector from one year up to the next, where the government's editorialism is constantly linked with financial management, and thus feed on the idea that if you don't bend to the powder, the budget will be taken away. It's a quest for public radio, objective of democratic discussions in the country, and the objective of the community we would like to have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u142	Mr. President. The suggestion we vote for is in harmony with the promise of the Supreme Court. A minister of education and cultural culture from earlier this year on the same radio as the pay and price. The government radio has made all its plans in harmony with this promise, and it is truly remarkable. The government and the government had left this issue on the scene all year long and did not complete it until the last day of the year's Senate. It's a sign of a very bad practice, and I agree with what others have said here, but this is merely an approach to State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u143	A respectable president. Of course, we support this adjustment because the government's plans today to give us a total of 175 million. K. In addition to the national programs at the game, Icelandic television is no more than a continuation of the financial straitjacket elected by the head of the Management Board last year to keep the Kingdom News last year by setting up the final scores until 182 million that were supposed to be linked to the operation. Today, 175 are used to produce television programs. What, then, is the government of the Kingdom Radio? you can ask in this context. It's 12 days before the new year starts. What, in effect, is the removal of money by these conditions? This is a completely undisputed project, so we should do it properly and support the adjustment proposed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u144	A respectable president. Here at a later time, we'll vote for the government's proposal, but I'll draw very special attention to the fact that if we take the budget received by the State Radio this year and we make it worth 2.5%, that number is 3,754 million. K. If we look at the proposed proposal now, along with the money that is expected to be added for more currency and look to the budget that appeared in the fall, this will be approved below, the Kingdom News will receive 3,725 million next year. I allow me to say that this year there is a very similar area and financial contribution. There is no way to argue that this is a quest for the Kingdom News, but there is, of course, a significant problem that continues with the State Radio, which is one of the higher salary this year. All of this has been discussed in the so - called Eythor report. [[The president calls.]] The biggest management problem in the state radio is known, but it can't be said that these funds are being cut down. That's reverse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u145	President. Although I'm sure I'd be glad to know that there was a cut-off to the General's agent about 13 million, I would have liked to have the privilege of accepting 14.7 million. K. extra financial contributions to the General agent so that he could conduct an initiative study which is urgent that an agent has room for it, since we have repeatedly seen the importance of this part of the office's activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u146	A respectable president. I suggest that this proposal be made because a greater proportion of legal committees have fallen from their cuts at the U.S. Council agent to 13 million. This was because the office was transferred to the Generals' housing and therefore does not have to pay rent that it did before we have found it in a larger section of the budget committee and suggest that, among other things, the amount of money we were going to drop would not fall down but, rather, would be taken up by spontaneous study so that the figure in the bill is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u147	The President is very quick in his votes, but first, I wanted to thank you for the vote on a bridge. 692 on the basis of the Enlightenment Committee. I am very pleased that the decision was to agree to our suggestion to help with cutting down the great crowd there. It is imperative that the media who have called for access to information without having to wait a year or two. Then I challenge the members of Congress regarding the proposal we are voting for now to accept it. I find it extremely important that the State Radio is allowed to be independent, and I also feel very important in view of the situation and the discussions that have been done to make sure that RUS does not have to be under government protection at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u148	Mr. President. I'm going to support this suggestion of a 175 million contribution to RUS. I firmly believed that it was right to lower the radio charge, as the decision has been made. I view this as a temporary contribution to a case that must be protected for a specific purpose to purchase material from national manufacturers to show them in this field, but I'm stressing that the events and discussions that have taken place in recent times require that the service agreement with the Government Guideline be revised and made clear goals on the role of the Kingdom Hall to serve. In my opinion, it should be far less limited than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u149	A respectable president. Today, on December 19, there is a fist-out drop on the Federal Radio, and a plan has not yet been established for the next year. We cannot support this arrangement, for it is a uniting arrangement. But we are not going to vote against her because we agree with the highest degree. The Minister of Education that the decision made on a report with the suggestion that this will go on to some particular project is out of control and precisely as much as when it was given the order of the same proportion as the appearance of the General Assembly. Hence, we sit by this payment but stress that following a service contract for a discussion at the council, the Kingdom News will be prepared to provide permanent funding so that plans can be made for a longer period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u150	Mr. President. This is actually the end of the annual development of the current government party to the State Radio. The roundness that the State Radio has had to live with is intolerable. This is another attempt to combat the independence of the medium and, in fact, an attempt to weigh the public radio in Iceland. Happily, the Supreme Court made it clear. Education and Culture Ministers to the conditions of this contribution in reporting with a change in the proposal of a larger section of the budget should not take too seriously, but the emphasis and priorities of the Service Convention that the Minister promises to discuss with the General Assembly will end the plans for a national programme in such a legal agreement rather than a paper with a change form in the budget. It's just a dirty job here. The national radio is still in doubt and political bites. Such a situation is open to the present board of directors, and the situation must be over. [[The president calls.]] We're sitting next to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u151	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion for about 175 million. K. a temporary contribution to the State Radio to the implementation of national programs. That's what I'm up to. Some five years ago, RUV had a major cutout, and there they decided to cut down primarily in the country by dropping regional broadcasts and by reducing the number of employees. I would like to commend present managers in particular for wanting to promote RUSH in the country. True, it is time, but I would also like to commend them for their economic action, including some of them. with a rented home, thus responding to a business problem that has, unfortunately, been the source of this ideal institution. Then I suggest we look at the business plan. [[The president calls.]] I believe the ohf-station was a mistake in its time and the state radio will be the best place to be in the state of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u152	A respectable president. Though there is a bright future in government today, the fact that the debt of the state is very high and the financial burden of the State is high. The demand for more money for health care is high, and in view of this, I find that 175 million 15 minutes for this vote to flow into an institution that is already reaching less than 4 billion in taxpayers' pockets, an institution that runs five media. In that light, I say no to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u153	A respectable president. I want to reiterate that despite this conclusion being reached, the Kingdom News is facing a real challenge next year when it comes to business. In my discussion earlier today, I thought it would be convenient and beneficial for me to come to a convention with a contract of service. We could discuss them here, with President's permission, if at the beginning of a New Year council, for example. discussed a report so that we could promote the opinions of members of the Parliament and get a discussion of this service contract. On the contrary, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Education to settle such a deal, but I think it is a great improvement that could be a step in creating a better solidarity in a media conference. Among other things, I refer to what our cousins in the North countries are doing in terms of an agreement on the media market that I think we might look forward to, too, to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u154	A respectable president. I accept, of course. Yesterday, there was a misunderstanding in the discussion of the budget, I think it was more than the previous day regarding the Developmental Research Institute, because it was in the Committee on the 2s. it shows that there are not correctly counted contributions for development. At the same time, it says that such a course is reprehensible. This text cannot be used in this way because this discussion continued because it is wrong. When our proposals were made, everything was calculated correctly. However, it was later noted that the government decided to add a considerable amount of money to refugees, and this later adds up the contributions. It should be noted that the contributions made to the EFTA Building Fund cannot be considered a means of development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u155	A respectable president. They're adding to the County Fund. The root is that the services of disabled people move from one country to another. I make a sound mostly to encourage members of the Parliament to protect the balance fund. It is primarily designed to meet smaller societies that have less chance of earning money, and it is very important that this continues. I will fight every opportunity to make this arrangement change. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u156	A respectable president. In 2010, we concluded a great deal of happiness with our rural society in moving to the disabled people to the countryside. It was extremely well prepared, well-funded, and always assumed that, after the trial period, experience and final funding would be done finely. I'm going to give commendation to the government that now serves to negotiate with the rurals on the evaporation of this important project and that income institutions needed for this important service can now be fully accomplished. There's a great deal of joy, and I'm happy to join in paying this motion vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u157	A respectable president. Never too late to change your mind. Therefore, we again give the government the opportunity to raise the wages of the elderly and the poor in the same way that others did. We will make that suggestion over and over until we have made it clear that the elderly and the desperate enjoy the same amount of pay that others in the country earn. Therefore, it is best for members of Congress to say yes. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u158	V.E.G. President. In this cycle, the final requirement is to improve the quality of the elderly and the poor. This is the final attempt at this council to improve these terms, and it's here to show what's wrong. Today, members of Congress really want to take the lead in improving the interests of the elderly and the poor. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to say yes to this change because it is just and fair and is designed to improve the quality of those whose feet are in the society right here and now. That's why I say yes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u159	A respectable president. Here again, a change in proposal is made from the smaller portion of disability and the elderly to the same quality as that of the rest of the community. Honorable board of directors: last chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u160	President. I would like to refer to the words of Marinó Gunnar, son of Njálsson, who wrote a remarkable fistula on Facebook today. He says: ▪ People are at the minimum rate of several months, six months maximum. Thereafter, the person will move up to the next pay grade. Thereafter, the individual continues to increase in wages throughout his or her working years and with increased education. That's not what pensioners do. They're trapped in the lowest wage of the money since they start a pension and until they fall out of it, most of the time when they die. Let's remember, my fellow senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u161	A respectable president. The long - term discussion of the budget has particularly been on this very point, and it had to be a long way to draw out the real will of the government. In the first place, it was said that pensioners used the same ones as low - paying men. Then we got it out of both of them. Chairman of the budget board and the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance that it was their own goal to make sure that pensioners are inferior to underpayers. [[Up front.]] Then it was also claimed that the change for the coming New Year's Eve would make a pensioner as low - paying people. Now it's been run down with numbers. All of this has been revealed in a long discussion, and now becomes crystal clear that the determination of this government and the members of Congress that it supports is not equal to the interests of wage employees in the country. Now it's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u162	A respectable president. I'll say yes to this proposal. Here comes the Christmas feast for the elderly and the poor. She looks like this: Merry Christmas! Happy New Year. You've had enough. A festival celebration, the government of Iceland, the Independence Party, the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u163	A respectable president. I'm incredibly sorry it's going to be like this before Christmas. These are groups that survive about 200 of you. K. in a month and greetings here are that they do not have the same discretion as do others in a job market. Yet, we have had the success of the discussion at the highest level. Prior to that, the prime minister acknowledged that it will again appear in May. However, it has come to the government's understanding which means that this decision is made with wide eyes, that it is understood between the lowest wages and the lowest pension. Let us stop looking at the percentages, looking at the dollar and asking ourselves, " Am I going to trust me to celebrate Christmas with 200 pence? ' K. month's income. I say yes to this suggestion because I want to change this and improve the interests of older citizens and desperate people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u164	V.E.G. President. When Jóhanna the Sigurðardóttir succeeded in a collapse, government funds were near collapse. Her government succeeded in the impossible, the right state funds, and then increased the equation, so it was noticed. Here, there had increased inexorably faster than in other parts of the forwarding and independent party administration, but we were able to reverse this trend despite the very difficult position of the state's funds. [[Set up the lndependence Party...]] V.E.G. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson often decorates himself with the feathers of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It does not honor him when he speaks as if his government increased this equation. On the other hand, it increases the inequities again, and today the administrative body is making the political decision to increase the inequity of Iceland. I say yes, Mr President, and I will present the shame and responsibility of the Iceland government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u165	A respectable president. We now vote for the proposal of a greater portion of the legal committee, which is to add another 250 million for maintenance at a land hospital. Of course, I welcome that suggestion and support her whole mind. The need for maintenance at the hospital is urgent, and this budget will take on the most basic work that is well - intended. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u166	A respectable president. It is well to make money for the maintenance of the Land Hospital, but this is not enough for the more important tasks waiting for them. The same is true of the billion for the new aging resources to deal with the flow problem from the Land Hospital. In the past, we've proposed a serious settlement for the Land Hospital and we're going to be embarrassed by this payment. The government does not meet the needs of the Land Hospital. There remains an unsolved management problem and defect in the FA hospital funding system that will maintain uncertainty about the situation for as long as the next year, making it more difficult than it would have to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u167	A respectable president. It is fine that much of the contribution has been made to some aspects of the maintenance need of the Land Hospital, a fact that is far more than the 250 million laid down here. The hospital officials have found that there is a need for 1 billion, not just to meet congregation problems, but a maintenance problem in relatively new buildings. Our goal should be to meet this need. It should also be our goal to solve the hospital's business problems, which will not be solved by the additional funds laid out here to make room for the hospital emergency room, although, of course, it is useful. For this reason, we sit with members of Congress on the left of the movement of to the left. We support this money, but we also know that it is not enough. Rather, there would have been reason to accept the change we made in the memory of our proposals and others in the past to meet these needs in order not to create a problem for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u168	A respectable president. In case of a moment. People sit by it means they're not agreeing, and if everyone would do the same, these funds wouldn't go to the Land Hospital. Today, 723 million are being maintained, very large. I think it's right to inform what happened at a meeting. The legal committees, when they pointed out that we had as little infrastructure as Greece and Mexico, were referring to budgets from 2013 when other governments did not. Similarly, we put money on the flow problem, and it is very important that we be aware that our health - care system needs to be viewed as a whole. [[Up front.]] It's very good news that we have room to contribute more funding to the major project of resorting to those who are now in the Land Hospital than are expected to be in other alternatives. [[The president calls.]] I don't believe anything but that. Parliamentaries agree with these suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u169	A respectable president. In three discussions on this budget, the less part has been fighting for more funding to the Landsaver. Now it is finally showing that much of the item has only added, not enough, but it should be glad that we've only gained money here. We're in yellow in the bright future because we're not doing this properly. The same is true of the next vote team, but I'd like to say that when we started this discussion, there was no extra money to come from the greater part, but this has yielded the best. But there would have to be much more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u170	A respectable president. For some incomprehensible reason, some may have a problem. Councilmen suggested that abnormal practices are out of control. A budget when it strengthens things that are involved when people receive all the rural groups that want to go to bed. The budget board. I have to admit that although I feel that it's normal for us to handle things, I don't think that compromise is appropriate. This proposal comes from a single whale. A member of the board of directors and is completely compatible. There it is. A senator who knows well in his community with a very good piece of work that I think is counterrepresentable and right to vote, and that I will, but I don't understand why the same senators and offer such suggestions critical of their own methods.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u171	A respectable president. I thank the budget for putting money on the force, an organization against sexual and domestic violence, which has the goal of making individuals aware of their own strength and helping them use it to change their lives. This project has been a good concordat among all the senators of the North Eastern District. As soon as I thank the highest. The Minister of Home and Social Affairs for her part in this, I thank you for your cooperation. It is a team effort that made it clear that we have put not only 5 million here on this project but also 2nd. Which makes them 10 million. Moreover, I am grateful for the solidarity that is involved in putting extra money on that fine assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u172	A respectable president. As we have figured out, this section is nowhere far enough and cannot be elected to vote on this proposal of the greater part. [[Take it up, give it a vote...]] Yet, there is reason to rejoice that this work in the fall has resulted in an 1 billion reduction from the Land Hospital as well as a reason to celebrate the milestones and those who have helped to drive it past the government outside the government, of course, the general public in the country and the health - care organization and others who have been upset in the fall from the fall after the government's constant and varied efforts to the National Hospital. Once again, the government, though small, has returned, and this billion can be welcomed, even though it is not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u173	A respectable president. Clearly, the weight - bearing foundation of society and social discussions is being developed here. The comments of those in the community talk that have sometimes been called spiritual violence are here, and the legitimate tips of the National Hospital's leading hospital and some of the most familiar health - care providers in Iceland are developing. The domestic administration of the government's opposition is due. The pressure of the public throughout society is taking over. Hence, this change takes place between the 2nd and 3rd. We do not have enough work to do, so we sit by, but we believe that this conclusion is very important to us that it is important to use a breather. When people speak clearly about the situation, it is important to speak clearly when they face threats in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u174	A respectable president. There is nothing consistent with talking about wanting to strengthen health care and then not vote for financial support. Also, it is not convincing to listen to those who made priorities as they did during the last term and then say that they have a great deal of interest in strengthening health care. [[Up front.]] I call attention to the fact that no governor of the Land Hospital, I claim it, said during the last term: Just cut down properly with us, but rather put money on the environment and foreign affairs. No one did. [[Up front.]] When people who had cut most of their health, added to other lawsuits, and pretend to be so highly supportive to health care, it doesn't hold any opinions, especially when they don't even vote with the proposal. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u175	A respectable president. I am very happy to see this change in the budget. The same applies to the director of the Hospital, Páll the Matthíasson of Matthua, who also rejoices in an interview with the visi.is today on this addition to 1st of you. Millions to the Land Hospital. Of course it's never done, but I have to say to myself that I feel that the government should show in action that it supports the continued structure of the health system and votes with this good suggestion. We all agree that we need to improve our health. It's been shown in this room many times. We can always do better than now is the time to act as a member of the Parliament against all classes and say yes to this proposal. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u176	A respectable president. V.E.G. At the end of the discussion earlier, a minister of finance explained that we were trying to arrange matters in a way that would be more successful. Perhaps one way is to plan for the needs of the Land Hospital, for during the last three autumns, including this, the government has provided a financial bill that the governor of the Land Hospital has declared would bring relief to the hospital. Our task in the government has been to blow off this nonsense throughout the fall. This money isn't enough, so we don't vote with this proposal. We have, however, shown our support for further funding by upholding these demands from the Allied symposium. These funds were not available three weeks ago and were not available two weeks ago and were not available for a week ago. Here, however, we see the results of our struggle, not just ours at the council. We have been able to make certain aspects of the administrative part ashamed, but we also thank and welcome the widespread support in the community that serious money is being placed on health issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The deal is, does the Conspiracy say yes?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u177	President. I find it very positive that there are 1 billion in what is called release, very important, because it is extremely expensive to have people in hospitals who should technically be anywhere else, in different care. I've been talking about it, pointing this out since the last term, the importance of putting money in this category, so that, because of my conscience, I can make no more than short of it, although I would like to sharpen more of my share in securities for the whole health system. That's extremely important. I must rejoice over what is done well, even if I do not feel enough to do it. But at least I am grateful that this billion people are involved. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u178	A respectable president. How sad it is to see the non-supervising diplomats, some of whom have moved to the green button, and I encourage them to continue, to form a sharp starter. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I encourage you to move to the green button because it's a good thing that we're putting money in the flow problem of the Land Hospital. There's one thing. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason forgot earlier. Because of his unwise attitude, it is now between discussions that bring in funds and possessions from the captive bank residents. [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] The financial situation of the state's funds is improved because we are taking over the property of these swollen ones, and then we are to provide additional funds for health care because of our lack of sense of reason. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] President. Can you get that rioting thing out of the room? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u179	First take...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u180	Have a what? Councilmen who are here to finish their speech after a talk. A senator finished?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u181	Do I want to repeat the speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u182	Should we not be concerned that a council is almost over trying to calm us down now? Senators are explaining their vote and having one minute to do that? Why don't we just let it go. When it has been given to them, do members of the council take the lead? President doesn't feel like he's asking very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u183	V.E.G. President. The land hospital asked for 1,400 million in maintenance, received 250, the land hospital asked for 400 million on account of collective agreements, and received nothing, the land hospital asked for 1st. Millions on the increase in patients, but the government decides to set 1. Millions in nursing room in general to cope with efflux problems in medical institutions. The government will not meet the most important priorities of the Land Hospital, any more than it would meet the highest priority of the Kingdom News. Here, an independent party and a forwarding group of harsh precinctism applied to the president of the states and to disputes and rulers. I'm sitting by. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u184	A respectable president. I was going to repeat my vote then before that. paritaprevir The Athenian Árnason Páll could hear it directly through a vein. We were setting health - care funding to reduce the flow problem of the Land Hospital. What a positive attitude that is! Why did this happen? There's one thing. paritaprevir When Árnason the Baptizer arrived earlier, he forgot about what happened, counting why this was happening. What happened between discussions was that several hundred billion came from possessions and capitals because their reason conquered them unwisely. A senator spoke for himself. A respectable president. It came in from the demands of foreign financial companies, which were to be borrowed. Hv. Among other things, a senator suggested this. As these assets are sold and financed, we should use them more and more, first and last, to promote health care in our country and other basics, where health - care services will be put first. [[The president calls.]] Here is the first step in this subject, and how positive it is! [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u185	Is this normal, Mr. President, that...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-59.u186	Mr. President. We are truly taking in a number of teams because of stability, but it was so reasonable in March 2012 that the law was adopted here by a greater proportion of that which placed the swellingers under the head of currency. Hence, we can do this here, but unfortunately, the Independence Party was opposed to that operation, and those in the hall were in attendance. That wasn't very wise. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
