ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u1	A respectable president. I vote against the sale of our lot in the Lands Bank. I don't think it's time, there's nothing to worry about, and it's not a place for state funds for many other reasons. I think it's an opportunity for us to own this bank and use it to reduce the few people in the bank market here. I've held many talks on this subject and it'd be totally different in style and rhythms if I didn't vote in any way except for this thing being sold. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u2	A respectable president. [[Taken out on: the same as Frost.]] This is a proposal made in the history of the last government, as it were, by the bank of the United States. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason years came in. There is good reason to adjust matters in a way that was not done during the last term when the banks were handed over to foreign demands on those who had a prior vote and suggested a retraction. Then you turned in Union and left the green claimers of the fallen bank of Iceland and Anion banks, foreign vulture funds. [[Up front.]] [[Take it up, tell the truth.]] Now, there is good reason to attack the separation of investment banks and business banks. [[Overruled by a government.]] [[Up front.]] There is also good reason to go into the area in which we can ensure that society and/or public property is within the hands of the bank of the United States, or Bank of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] But, a respectable president, taking such a lawsuit from the same sides and handing over Iceland's bank to the foreign vulture funds - I don't participate in acting anyway. þm. Helga Hjövars and whathv. þm. The Árni of Paul the son of Aarnar. [[Up front.]] Their own record judges themselves. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u3	A respectable president. I think some of them go. Senators... [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Excuse me. I think some of them have a hard time. Councilmen would do well to read the report of the General Commission, which clearly shows that the collapse of the bank and the cause of which independence and forwarding were a major factor. [["And blessed the Conspiracy."]] - No, 2001◯2003... [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Taken out to the Convergence.]] [[Take it up: Just listen.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] May I have your attention, please? [[Foreground on, Prime Minister...]] I'm going to sit by. I want to criticize the manners of the highest. Prime Minister to me, thank you. I would like to point out that a source doesn't necessarily have to be dangerous. On the other hand, it's about trust. I don't think we have that confidence, as it stands to privatize the banks. I don't think it's time. We need to look at how this was done elsewhere. It is true here that banks around the North are not necessarily owned, but 25 years have been taken to privatize them, not three such as we did in our last privatization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u4	Or one like the Conspiracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u5	There was one bank. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, I'm sitting by. Please read this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u6	I've already done that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u8	Mr. President. Here's a special explanation for section 5.3 of Article 6. which is about to sell 30% shares at the Bank of Lands. I notice that people don't make a lot of remarks to section 5.2 about selling Iceland banks. To me, it is very clear that we Icelanders must bind more than 400 billion dollars. holding on to Iceland and the Bank of Lands. I have spoken of the continuation of the state as a large owner of the Lands Bank. There is no choice here except to be authorized for sale for up to 30% shares. We will take a special consideration later on in what way this sale will be carried out. That proposal will not be born in the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Ministry of Presidency. Rather, it will be legalized in the Bank Office. I hope we can see her as soon as possible, i.e. The Commission's motion on how to deal with this. Why should people in advance oppose the ideas that have not been developed? Later, it is time to examine when the Independence Party can purchase a poll and get it published on the front page of the newspaper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u9	Because they're delivering...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u10	Well, the President has asked for quite a number of requests. When the vote is over, at least members of the council failed, and no one is here to answer the public talk of these figures. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] He doesn't feel asked very much, to be honest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u11	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, over the length of a conference, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Congress puts on. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u12	A respectable president. As before this week, I make a decision that it is probably a matter of evening and midnight, but I don't think that we're having enough money to do at night. According to this, I don't think there's any reason to call for a vote on the President's proposal, that's why it's the will of the greater part, and accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u13	V.E.G. President. Here was a very good discussion to over three o'clock in the night, and I'm sure that my associates here were under it with me that the discussion had not wanted to miss for any money because she was very pleasant, shaken, and deep and there were many information that would be of value. I know, and I expect tonight and night we'll hear more and better talks, and I'll look forward to it. So I strongly support the President's suggestion that we will meet until midnight, well beyond midnight. If anything is, I think that tonight's meeting was shorter, the discussion went well, and this morning it could have been so much as half five this morning that it was harmless. So I insist on continuing and talking for as long as they need. How long it takes for them to know alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u14	A respectable president. I come up to express my disapproval in connection with a vote on the big contest here. Here come a speaker like a boy. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, commending tonight's speeches. It is, in fact, true, because the budget we are discussing is such as not being overlooked because it is a form of criticism and a need to reevaluate what we have in our good speeches now for many years. On the other hand, this presentation of the senator conflicts with the accusation that we have been arguing that we have a filament of speech that is physically impossible in view of the substance of the discussion, as has now been confirmed by members of the government. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It's okay to extend a meeting. We have never objected, but we reasonably demand that we be told how long a conference will last. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u15	A respectable president. Now, this debate over the budget bill is becoming quite long, and it will likely be quite waiting for this government record to be hit. I support the proposal that a meeting meeting can last longer than usual, into the evening, and even into the night. The situation is that the government has been speaking tremendously for a long time, and it must, of course, be told that as long as the government situation is not ready to publish it for how long 2. The budget is to be held at the president's office and therefore the council should have no alternative but to have a night-and-night meeting. On the other hand, I challenge the government to let these old - fashioned practices go, sit down, and give up when she intends to end this discussion, when men intend to quit the second. of the budget bill and of going to a democratic vote that shows whether it is more than a part of the budget and the many changes the government has recommended or not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u16	Mr. President. I have to express my opinion that I feel that this discussion has long since been cleared up, i.e. The matter is settled, and the discussion is long ago far too long. So I'm going to disagree with someone who says it's nice to keep going. I also intend to disagree with men when they say that this record is not certain. It is indeed a record in the discussion and handling of the Algill Fund, but what is happening is that people are becoming spirited down, with respect to the nation. The self - respect of the Council is a factor in the fall. Humans are trapped, and while humans are in these spirals, no one can claim that we have found the bottom. Just as next year, whether it is next year or even after two, three years, this bad example may be used to justify even longer and more crazy discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u17	A respectable president. I'm not going to blow my mouth at the highest. Secretary of finance, but there are material reasons for the length of this discussion. We wanted to give those in charge a chance to change their mind and attitude as to whether elderly and disability pensioners should have a good time with others in the community. We've been told about it from the highest. Secretary of the budget is that he wants them to be less than paid. We have wanted to give the authorities a chance to see how they are concerned with ensuring adequate financial support in line with the wishes of his administration. Sadly, it is not obvious that the top priority is there. Third, we've wanted to create space for the highest. A minister of education to present changes in the state radio. We are sorry to see that the leadership of the government groups seems to be determined to flaunt the state radio and violate the political solidarity that has been successfully formed in the field of the government of the Kingdom News for its future. All of this has become clear in this discussion. It has been stretched because we have been giving groups a chance to change their mind to important matters, but at some point we must also see that it is fully developed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u18	A respectable president. There is much here about some sort of record in discussions and such. I'd like to recall that the record we're saying here is that the budget was set up in 2012. At that time, no specific material adjustments were made by the existing government opposition; yet, it considered it important to speak well and long in order to end the constitution and prevent it from being taken care of. That was the struggle then. The fight now is, in effect, about making sure that older citizens and poor people receive at least the same amount of pay as the minimum wage in the country. Is that too much to ask? That's what this is all about. A respectable president. When we have a financial minister who feels that there is some kind of starving system involved in encouraging people to move forward when it comes to pensions in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] It's not what we want to keep micro- old citizens in and that's why we're fighting here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u19	A respectable president. In recent times, we have seen information about the media that many people in the business world worry that the dollar is getting too strong. The amount of dollars may be stronger than that, for example, to worry about the tourism and the high structure in the area. It is not too long since people were concerned that the disposal of a currency may get very sick. The release of the so - called snowbolt would result in a huge drop in currency, resulting in the loss of the dollar. As soon as we have to think about why the dollar is getting stronger and how we need to deal with it, it is a pleasure to be in that place not to speak of subsidizing currency heads with the weakness of the crown. In this regard, it is important to consider the case. Why did they say that the dollar would get sick? The fact is, today we are dealing with the growing ups of fallen banks in a way that is, in a way, giving up funds and possessions that the former government was going to pay off from the country, exorcised from the economy. That's why they were worried that the dollar would get sick. Of this, the chairman of the Continent wrote articles and thistles and told them about the currency capitals: ▪ One way in this subject is that during the meeting, the European Parliament would be negotiated to provide payment so that the flow could be financed right away at the beginning or during a few years, by reimbursement over a longer period of time. Such a solution would likely result in less than a dollar's losing in the past. [[The president calls.]] The previous government was going to pay the money that the current government demands to be given to a government fund. [[The president calls.]] This is a fundamental policy difference between the current government's policy and the previous government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u20	V.E.G. President. At the same time as we discuss the budget with great anger, our economy is on the move, and perhaps in the absolute sense, the Christmas store is at hand, and the bank manager's declaration confirms the truth that it is indeed true that there is a very good one here. We're in a bit of a different place in economy than the North countries and the euro. There are many things that work with us, but there are also things to be careful and to make it difficult for us to make a good balance. In Norway, people now rely on the fact that the dollar will be weakened to help out other than the oil industry in order to keep the economy going, but in that country, there have not been so many failures in investments for 15 years in this industry, the oil. The low prices and low prices in Europe and the North countries have helped us with a more favorable commercial level and have held back the prices of the region, but still we still have 5.75 percent of the direct growth that is considerably higher than in the areas mentioned. This makes it difficult for us to do so. There is a risk of influx of funds and continued to grow over an abnormally large amount that reduces the amount of waste or increases the angle with the related side effects at the same time for the job. We are experiencing better things than the task ahead of us to maintain stability through balanced balances and savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u21	V.E.G. President. During the past few days, I've been taking note of unemployment rates since October, and there are a number of factors that seem to give you optimism. There are 4,600 people in Iceland who are still out of work. It is of particular interest to me that this group of people is expected to include a group of over 100 people who are unemployed. It will take a quick turn because it is widely advertised to the powers of such men these days and weeks and even being brought in this knowledge from foreign lands, which I think will be next unnecessary in this regard if you can find these dozens or about 100 occupational workers who are currently on unemployment record in Iceland. Another is that I recently read in a magazine that some 1,500 jobs would be formed at the Cheflavík airport next summer. I'm afraid those in charge there will hire people from unemployment to work south at Keflavour Airport. On the other hand, I am free of reports that one of the F.F.P.'s daughter companies or Icelanda's 200 jobs in Poland was published in order to import cheaper workers. It's a very strange thing to do, Mr. President, because one of the main owners of Icellands is the Icelandic pension fund, Icelandic employment life. I don't know what's going to happen if they're going to move in with workers so that we can hold on to our pay when we have a few thousand on the unemployment record. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u22	Mr. President. I think we can all agree that being a politician is a big job and is a big responsibility. The people of the land have trusted us to exercise power in their behalf and, of course, expect us to work faithfully and to be content with the people, that we will always have public interest and guidance as a standard for everything we say and do and decide. Of course, we who are involved in political activities should also honor the virtues and values that unite people, build trust, promote progress and solutions, and improve the quality of life in this country, respect, honesty, humility, and especially tolerance. For one thing, it involves understanding the different attitudes and the different views we have on the many assignments that we face each day. All of this is an obvious truth to responsible parents who want to bring up happy and healthy individuals and who send them into life a lot of negatives. Why on earth would the same have been true in this house? I have repeatedly encouraged my talks at the General Assembly that there will be a large increase in the agreement between the government, the Allied Union, the sector, the employee enterprise, the financial sector, the educational community, and all kinds of community organizations on our long-term objectives as we live in this country, how we increase the quality of life of the people, and many opportunities for all. That's all it's supposed to be in politics. I do not hesitate to say that if my words had been taken and that we would not be in the miserable position we are now in. One hand against another, a false report, an accusation, and a noise, and a great amount of energy is wasted in a way that is a recipe for no success. Mr. President. I urge us again and again to shoulder the responsibility that the common people in this country have assigned us, to sheath the swords, to turn the pies together, to solve the problems that we face as far as we can see. I challenge the government to revise their minds on the affairs of the elderly and the poor in terms of their backward dressbacks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u23	A respectable president. I want to make Christianity a subject in this brief fist. Reykjavíkurburg, with left green and Pirata on the front lines, is attacking nationalism and Christianity in the country. Thus, the Center for Martyrs in Reykjavík has encouraged preschool, elementary school, and vacation home of Reykjavík City not to attend church visits in December, as has been customary. I wondered, sir, about the harm caused by such visits, what children have been harmed by visiting the local churches, and experiencing love. Reykjavíkurborg stands out in terms of the rules of 12 rural society relating to school relations with religious and biological institutions. According to city councilman left green, no church visits can be made on the Adventist or accept gifts, such as the New Testament, U.S.A. The Ministry of Education's proposal for communications between schools and religions states in point two: ▪ Churches associated with Christian festivals are part of the educational program on religious festivals and cultural heritage of the nation. A respectable president. Since 1954, the Gideon Society in Iceland has given 14 - year - old students the New Testament, this remarkable book that all benefit from studying. It is hard to see how city officials in Reykjavík are treated with the National Church. Christian religion and values are part of a community that has been in Iceland for over a thousand years. A respectable president. We need to gather together to protect the national church and the Christian faith in the land, not allowing a smaller part of the nation, a total minority of the nation, to determine whether or not children will get to know the Christian faith.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u24	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of Icelandic banks, but reports have found that every bank in Iceland is the best bank in Iceland. [[Up front.]] This is shown in the news center of the core. It is very interesting, especially to see what food there is behind the awards. As I and others have often mentioned here at the General Assembly, banks are working in Iceland in a single market where everyone offers the same thing and there's no motivation for the client to switch banks as normal if free competition were in charge. This situation is naturally unacceptable and unacceptable. According to the latest MMR survey, 70.6% of respondents trust the Icelandic banking system rather little or very little. Back to the prize. According to the Department of News, the Icelandic banks themselves had to apply for this prize. Anion Banki of the Year has been selected in Iceland in 2015 by The Banker, published by The Finished Times. The Euroony magazine also awards an Icelandic bank, and it is Iceland's bank that has earned this prize, not just for a year, but for three consecutive years. The Lands Bank is also the best in Iceland. The National Bank has won a prize from Global Finance Magazine magazine as the best bank in Iceland. Everyone's winners, except the customers, but that's maybe just a sideshow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u25	A respectable president. If there's no basis for discussing the council at this point, I don't know when there's any reason to discuss it. Where is this discussion of the budget now? Isn't it in a certain self - righteous condition that we don't really see at the end? We'll be discussing the budget day and night, so I'll just take an example of one fine senator. paritaprevir One day, Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson gave three talks, one speech before noon, one after dinner and the third speech after midnight, and then a blog transfer until the morning comes. A senator here depravity and slanders that most of the council or individual senators do not listen to his speech. I have shared in working on the country society budget, where people work all over the fall together to find the best money they can spend on farms the next year. Here is a budget board, after the budget is submitted, in this case, September 10. Until December 8, a legal committee is to welcome visitors and give their opinion. As soon as the council is held, there is trouble. My associates on the budget are turning upside down and turning into other persons. [[The president calls.]] People work together on the committees, so I'm allowing myself to feel strongly that Porta's method of doing this is all on the Internet in an open process that is the solution. [[The president calls.]] I urge the Senate to complete 2nd. ... money so we can take the matter into a committee again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u26	Mr. President. During the last week, representatives of the General Climate Conference in Paris attended a historic agreement at the end of that week, a agreement that met with the nations for certain objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a target of how to support the poorer countries to adapt to climate change, and how to deal with what is likely the most important issue of this century. Climate change will affect all of us, especially the poor people of this world. I would say that in climate change, there is a big political issue, i.e. how we can ensure a decent standing for people, not just in Iceland, but in this world, and how we will deal with the environmental impact of what mankind has taken over. It is also true that although the agreement is historic, much homework remains. What we should be discussing here is how Iceland is going to meet the goals set. Where, for example, are the methods of electricalisation of transport and infrastructure for transport electricalization? Where are plans for increased public transportation? Where is a work policy based on not reducing emissions but not increasing them? How are we going to achieve exactly the goals set out? There the Assembly will be of great importance. I would have thought it normal this week to be the highest level of discussion. Environment Minister on what is involved in the agreement and what work is being done for the Allied Parliament in order to meet the goals set. I don't know if Mr. President can bring up such a discussion, but at least it would be very important to get her on as soon as possible. We must not let these goals just become words. [[The president calls.]] There is a rich responsibility. All of the members of the council that these goals will be met will be met, and I am impressed. A president to organize the arrival of the Generals on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u27	A respectable president. I understood that a word in Iceland is about everything that is thought of on earth. Then he wrote a poet. With those words for more than a hundred years, Icelandic linguists and dictionaries have found a word for most of what has been reported in the science world. It is hoped, then, that the country will wake up surprisingly when a nice computer scientist asks that the Icelandic will die out. True, in the world of computers and communication, Icelandic is not a language. Yet, speech experts have been using computer technology for more than 40 years to study. It seems, though, that the English is and will become a franc in the computer world. As the poet had Laugi say in the Silver Tower: ▪ We Icelanders are a small and poor people, and all foreigners think we're fools, and that's why I've always said: if we can do anything of a kind, no matter how little it is, we should do it in front of the als of the world. Icelandic literature will be written throughout history, with increasing progress in literature. It is no longer so that in literature farmers are fighting and Njáll will be burned at the end of the story. This is probably because in Iceland it falls to a considerable degree on the subject of criminal tales, the Icelandic existence, and the Icelandic reality. What may be a rescuer of the American language is that there are translators in other languages. A foreign student's study of the New World Translation has led to great success, enabling them to translate Icelandic poets into other languages. These students who say like the poet, I offer you a duet, my dear people, have lifted a stone to make Icelandic literature world literature. [[The president calls.]] I hope we're covering the Icelandic language in the years to come. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u28	A respectable president. The Paris Climate Conference the other day produced tangible results. That was very positive news. At the time of the climate conference, we stayed in the bright future some environmental events and one of them was about the impact of carnivore on the environment. In particular, growing cattle and the fact that Westerners consume more meat and dairy products is a major negative environmental impact. It's a group of paintings that haven't been very much discussed, but it's very important to discuss because it's really that if everybody ate as much meat as we Westerns, I don't talk about Americans, the Earth wouldn't be under that pressure. This production requires tremendous energy, much water, and it is estimated that one third of the world's agricultural land is going directly to feed. It would be wiser if we ate this food directly. Now it's not that everyone's going to be vegetarians tomorrow, I think, and so I'm sure I'd have a very hard time making it. But it's very important that we be aware of this and that we don't waste food, throw no meat or food at all, that's unacceptable. We need to look for ways to reduce the consumption of meat. What I find interesting is possible opportunities for Icelandic agriculture in this context. We have land, we have plenty of water. True, production would be more expensive, but might that not be all right? Why don't we pay real price for goods? It may not be normal to have a bullloin for food several times a month.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u29	Mr. President. I'm only going to talk about the budget and the Congress's work ethic and start with it as the highest level. Secretary of finance told me earlier that I was wrong. He said that the discussion was long and stupid. I think it's most inappropriate. This talk was about the language of people in the Ponta IIis, and it spoke of the lack of good speech for a very long time. There is no chance of improving it when it is highest. Ministers come out of their mouths like this and insist that people here are saying nothing but nonsense in a speech chair. I can't agree with that. I've been discussing the budget here for a long time, and I've taken a new account for almost every time I've been giving a talk. You see, there's plenty to take. V.E.G. The minister will just have to realize that he brought a very ill-prepared bill into the council. For one thing, the discussion is prolonged. Of course, there is a struggle for certain issues we are here to speak for and not just for us, a meeting on the part of the disability team has every day been outside the House for a few days, where members of the Parliament are encouraged to protect those less fortunate. We are trying to do so by getting people to the greater extent. True, that has not worked out. The minister of finance has said that there is no more to be done, so he should feel that it is only good for the time being. He has not told us how he thinks, or whether he achieves the minimum, i.e. 300 up. K., for these groups. It would have been fine if he had come up with some ideas in this relationship, whether he was going to do it next year, the next year, or 2018. A respectable president. It's a big group that matters, and we're not supposed to send people to poverty into Christmas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u30	A respectable president. It's nice to come here after what. paritaprevir Olsen's Diary, which deals with the exactness of the discussion of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u31	Those are Bjarni's words, not mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u32	You're absolutely right. A senator and I are going to take one case that I think is huge, simply that. Government opposers come in long rows, and they actually try to claim that there was a surgical procedure in the health system. Since the start of this government, the budget has increased by 17%. Health issues have increased by 25%. Now let's see what we can do. Senators in the government position who conducted this last term when saving. Where did they save? Relatively high in health care matters. I quote an answer I received from the highest. Secretary of finance then, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. At that time, it was stipulated by problems with government employees. 68% came from the Ministry of Health, should have been 38% if the decision had been balanced. It is much more than 216 years of work that the left government decided to take care of health care. So dare these people come here and talk about those who are building up the health system that are improving the health system and say they're cutting down. These are government numbers. She added foreign matters, added environmentally, but put health problems ahead of them. Here I am quoting her own words, her own figures, a respectable president. I suppose the highest. The minister of finance was talking about this when he spoke about how stupid the discussion was. [[The president calls.]] She's really crazy if someone believes what he's saying. ... andthethings she offers here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u33	V.E.G. President. It's about how we're going to create ourselves here. Hence, it is only natural for such discussions to be long and meaningful, especially in terms of budgetary development, to take the focus of political decisions on social changes that have not been discussed specifically at the General Assembly. I'd like to mention that in terms of RUS, the issues of high school, and the health system. When the budget is the principal point for discussing these matters and how they will be placed in the future, it is only natural that the discussion will be long. I feel sad that it is really killing the material discussion by making the most of the length of discussion, the number of discussions, or other such matters, to make it something important. The points of the discussion are important. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson has spoken a number of times about how good and helpful talks have been given at night. There are thousands of people who are observing the conference every time, and these people want to observe the decisions they are making on the particular Icelandic community. People are holding us with letters and more, so the discussion is to be held in daylight rather than under cover of night, so the public in Iceland can observe the discussion under way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u34	V.E.G. President. As a result, most people in Iceland are at work and are therefore not able to observe a financial debate successfully. But I'm going to talk about something else. I ran a story this morning that says Iceland's Bank is now going to give Iceland's state funds all its money. As the first dose of this money moves into the state's budget, one company claimed that this money could be attended, the advance group under the faithful command of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnulson, and he was immediately called a political officer and said to be overrun. They were asked how we could be alone to claim that we could get money from foreign hedge funds. What happens now that money flows into the treasure of the Kingdom? Then came they that could not, and feared not, and would not say, This is not enough. There could have been more. We could've had more. Now. Is it credible? No, Mr. President, it's not credible. It is not appropriate for humans to come up here one by one and to be suspicious of the results being obtained here. Hundreds of billions stream into the Iceland State Fund, not using proben to use for the economy, not to blow in here into a pox, but to strengthen the state's wealth, to strengthen its status, to bring us all into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u35	A respectable president. I'm glad that the General Assembly agent has requested to the head of the Foreignland Institute for general information on the treatment and investigation of the so-called Human Relations for health reasons. The occasion is the Albanian families that have left the country with two long - suffering children. I have declared that I believe that the United Nations Children's Covenant, which was legalized here in February 2013, will be the only thing I think, and we Iceland have bragged about, e.g. In cooperation with other northern nations, since Sweden and Danir have not done so, they have been broken by the passage of the Foreign Institute. This is very serious. What I say supports what I say and have quoted in the own covenant is that Icelandic doctors have questioned whether male patients will receive the medical services they need in their country of origin. Member States of the United Nations Children's Covenant recognize the right of a child to enjoy the best health that can be guaranteed and the facilities for medical treatment and rehabilitation. The Member States should strive to ensure that no child is missing this right to enjoy such health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u36	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to review the discussion that has been conducted here in a discussion about the government's budget. This led to the office of the General agent and to refer to the needs of an attack on which he was turning to the inmates and futures of the Foreign Institute for Refugees. I agree with that, it's a matter of the U.S. agent to direct the scene. At the same time, I welcome it to the highest. The Minister of the State states that the matter is to be considered, as has been noted at the council and in the media. But the reason why I raise this issue in connection with the budget is that the General Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee of the Council has alone requested it to a budgetary committee, followed by the General Assembly, which has the legal authority, to 15 million. K. to protect the government agent of the Generals in addition to what previously had been thought to take care of such matters, i.e. to attack for previews and studies that might have a prophylaxis effect. I'd also like to begin my speech with a few words about the discussion, as it has developed and evolved to-night. In many respects, she was very good. There are three factors that the government has particularly stopped during this discussion. First, people have looked at the situation of disability and the elderly and have brought up proposals established by the government's possession in connection with the budget, on the added financial resources of social security to provide up - to - date increases to these groups comparable to those that have been generally agreed on in the labour market. It's a justice case supported by government opposition, and I believe that there is a very widespread support in society in general. There have been many meetings outside the council. I think there's one on the couch later today. Those who appear there will likely listen to whether the government will somehow respond to the emphasis we have made. In addition to our proposal for supplementary funds, we have suggested that there be an additional increase in social security, thereby raising disability and the elderly at nearly 5.5 billion dollars. Especially do we look at the lowest income groups. We're talking about the lowest paid people in the country, that they don't sit in terms of the development of their livelihood, as do other groups in the country. This is the first focus of the government's opposition to this discussion. Then we have stopped with the health system. We've looked at the health care unit and particularly at the Land Hospital as the foundation of the Icelandic Health Organization. We have raised the matter that, according to information coming from the Land Hospital, both from his managers and those involved in a variety of counseling services there, there was a minimum of 3 billion to allow the Landsaholic to drive and carry out the legal duties on him. Third, people look to the State Radio and wonder that it is not a willing one to improve its interests. Rather, it is a desire to reduce the income of the state's radio. We are not talking about any large sums for each individual in the country. As far as I could tell, there was 116 bucks. in a month or so. It's not much money, but when it comes down to it, it can make a difference. There is one aspect that I would like to step in with the State Radio. The thought - provoking link is that one of the major Kingdom Radio developers on Channel 2 has written their thoughts on the subject and wondered if it is to walk between the trunk and the head of this facility. The person involved has been very well aware of performing the pop culture, the pop culture. I often think it's easy to talk about selling Channel 2 or giving it away because there is no culture. This is a big misunderstanding. It's also a culture. If it is nurtured, as the radioman has done, Ólafur Páll son of Gunnarsson, it is historical history. It's been handsome to produce the material that I really don't want us to belittle. Besides that, Channel 2 is an important revenue source for the National Radio. That was one reason why it was established in the 1980's. And even if people have disagreed with The Kingdom News at some point - I have often become, especially in the light of harsh reports, even to this very day - we have to look forward to the importance of maintaining this institution as a cultural institution and as a center and solidarity in the Icelandic media world. I'm sorry, but the talks we're giving are not very much. They are limited to ten minutes, and they cannot be elaborate in extraordinary matters, but this was the case in this knelt speech form yesterday. There I especially refer to a discussion about the State Radio. After all, she changed at the height of her change. The intellectual and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson came into the hall to participate in the discussion, not just to attend and listen. He participated in the discussion, and he granted members of the Parliament a request to explain his viewpoint. Now I believe that when it comes to political matters, it goes to the Hall of Congress and remains on the custody of the committee of the committee under the relevant issue, in this case of the legal committee. It is up to the legal committee to give an answer and to make changes and to the council to discuss the matter. However, this is not quite so simple because the budget is related to the policy and target of the European Commission, so it is normal to discuss the objectives of this policy while discussing the budget for the work. Hence, it was very useful to receive the minister for the discussion. Then, naturally, the council is way too difficult for the European Commission. That's one reason why we need this form of authority to be put in place when we talk about it. That's why, chief. Mr President, I'm going to end my speech by saying that I miss high school. A health minister should not have responded to my call and others to come here for the discussion and discuss the slant at the Land Hospital and explain his point of view as well as our charges that he is attacking the changes in his system that have not been sufficient, democratic discussion of health care matters in particular. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I thought why. In these last days before Christmas, a senator makes a very good summary of what we have stressed and want to fight here. Of course, we would like to try to influence the administrative part of the world with the big issues that are ideal for the elderly and the poor. We've been aiming at a percentage increase in contracts of the VR and the Flea Community. But I think it's important that the older citizen's national relationship is aimed at a higher percentage in 2015 than we're using, and we're going to have as much as that one contract. I want to ask you why. A senator feels that policy issues in such large categories are presented in one, two phrases in a budget bill, in a text of a budget bill, or in a text of a change. This happened before 2015 regarding high school when only one sentence was in the text about the Ministry of Education to go to a mass limit in high school and make access to students 25 years of age and older. It was a large education policy set out in that one sentence. The only thing we've actually seen in print about going into more private business without a discussion on the health care system is the text of the adjustment proposal to the budget. In fact, that sentence was taken out, but it was taken out by the highest. The secretary of finance, however, has prepared it again for interviews. What do you think? A senator on this type of work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u38	V.E.G. President. I think it's very sobering. I think it's very important to record this. Hv. A senator referred to an example of high school that was set up by the arrangement that developed around 1970 C.E., where schools were opened. It was one of the great revolutions of that time, opening high school to people who, for some reason, had gone out of the system and had even become out of control but who were reinvented. Today, these same people are referred to other solutions, usually costly personal solutions, to pursue education. Superpolitical matters, policies that were never properly discussed. We were trying to do that, the government's possession at the time. But like a dog. A candidate mentioned and mentioned in a talk that she gave, and it seemed quite remarkable to me, quite remarkable, that one of the issues that need to ask the highest question. A health minister in particular was to bring documents to the legal committee that open the way to offer out new clinics in Reykjavík. Then it disappears from the work data, not because the intent has disappeared, it confirmed the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance on the radio, but because it is not considered desirable to get involved. Or is that why? I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, since we're in a word exchange and she's sitting on a budget committee, asking why. A member of Parliament: Made the administrative body of the budget clear that there was a need to publish and to use private health care centres like the highest level. The secretary of finance then asserted? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u39	Mr. President. Of course, the plan was not open to them. True, officials said that a claim had not been submitted and that a system around the auction had not been established, but this was the goal. But it is possible to do so. The health insurance laws allow this to be done without accepting the discussion at the Assembly Hall. It's also a fault, I think, on the high school law that you can put down school, you can run public schools into private schools without accepting the discussion here. That is exactly what happened with the high school in Hafnarfjörður, another of the American public schools. When he was combined with the Theocratic Ministry School, a private school, there were about 500 students there, if I recall correctly. The increase in Technical Schools has not been so great. As a result, there has been a reduction in the number of students in the field ministry as a team. There's another thing that I think is remarkable about policy making changes. It's not just that they come through the highest. Rather, it is the greater part of the legal committee that takes its place, making it quite specific to the affairs of the highest degree. The Minister of Education and Culture suggests that the Supreme Court shall be authorized. Budget and economic secretary to sell to the National Archives area as much as possible. The Minister of Education has just been working with policy measures that are going elsewhere. The same is true of the State Radio, where the head of the budget committees have spoken very strongly against the fact that it will be a trust fund. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator whether he will feel this too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u40	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. That was exactly why. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, who specifically asked for the presence of the highest. Secretary of Education to discuss the state of the National Library. Then, in his discussion, he will find out how distasteful this idea is. However, the General is expected to accept authority to the financial authority of the Council of the Management Board to complete that sale. Well, this warrant has arrived, but the professional person thinks it's incompetent, so why really put it in the Alduium warrants? So I feel like it's all at the same well. We are under obligation to discuss matters openly and to make an open discussion. That's why I thought it would be desirable to have the highest power. Minister of health to the conference. It would be interesting to hear what you're saying. The head of the budget board also lists what is up for the majority of this committee regarding the new clinics. Is there much more there to ask for this business? I think it's a point of view of privacy, volunteering, and marketing medical services. I disagree with that viewpoint, but there is a view. There's a lot of minorities in Iceland. It prevails in certain groups here at the Generals' wall. However, they recognize that there is a minority view in society. That's why they have to be kept secret. It is sobering to know that we do not receive an honest, open discussion. That's what we've been calling for, and many people have allowed themselves to call a silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u41	A respectable president. Me and what. paritaprevir The grandfather of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson had here a nice place of words yesterday, or tonight rather, about market and private plans for health care. This is an extremely important matter, and it is important that we talk out loud rather than be so quiet as it has been. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator on the philosophical aspect of this case, market plans within the community. Now, there is what is called the 'Trade in Services Agreement, or TiSA, which is the 50 - nation organization of the world's richest country to achieve commercial agreements between countries. There's a lot of privatizing and privatizing in the work and plans of these organizations. This is a powerful but sound movement in the world toward personalization. Now I know that the Icelanders have been talking about, this has not been very high in the discussion, but the Icelanders have, for example, overlooked certain aspects of health care. But there are doubts in the world that they might not think so. TiSA aims to make the health care market worldwide. We have now seen in our discussion the plans for a private hospital and medical centres, for example, in certain breast cancer doctors and other areas where this service is presented like any market and trade. How does that view feel about the current senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u42	V.E.G. President. I think this is an extremely important discussion. The TiSA talks spring from the GATS Conference of the International Business Agency after these negotiations fail. Then certain kingdoms will gather together, i.e. A richer part of the world, trying to unite in the results that the others will then be forced to sign. V.E.G. Secretary of state has spoken openly about this. It's been shown in the Ministry's comments. At the same time in Paris, there was restrictions on emissions and pollution in Geneva under the TiSA umbrella to discuss how individual countries could be limited in these products. What I feel then, and that's right. One senator says that if we find such a basis to stand on which we will be forced into certain solutions, our hands will be bound. Therefore, it is very important that we take this discussion first. Regarding the private application of health care care care, it is important to consider this matter. V.E.G. A health minister, as I understand it, assumes that it is good to let individual agencies compete. Exports are carried out, and the best benefits will be taken. I'm saying that there would never be such a market. Once a management team has accepted this kind of operation, it will not be easily removed. Then, if they want to compete, it will happen on other grounds. It will happen by biting on the client who becomes the patient. This formula is created for the patient's financial support. Then people are confusing this with the fact that when we plan for the hospital or other clinics, we naturally consider the number of people turning in there. [[The president calls.]] But the difference is, and I'll finish my case, topmost. President, they're building the system a competitive drive. [[The president calls.]] That's the big difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u43	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that there must be a distinction between what service is being discussed in the matter of personal development. There is a difference between the competitiveness of a manufacturing company or a service that may not have our privacy and our baseline values. For example, management studies differentiate between quality-based services and what can be described as production outlooks that are normally seen in market or competitive. But now, for example, the experience in neighboring countries has been the one where people have been doing something this way, for example. Hospitals and care institutions, that are evading because this competitive spirit does not seem to have had a good effect on the quality of the service being performed. Is the senator willing to agree with me that the quality of the service is more valuable to the welfare system, that it should be the opening point, than to achieve harmony and market and economic benefits that are much more appropriate when we are talking about, for example, manufacturing companies and chicken farms? I don't think it's possible to set the same standards on these different factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u44	V.E.G. President. I agree completely with this. You're right. A senator points out that in many lands where this path has been turned, it is being abandoned. This is because when things are done, it has been found that instead of creating more targeted systems, faster and more efficient systems, the system is more complex and more expensive. It has also been found that rural waters have not been seen to slow down in rural areas. The ministry has even been reduced. In urban areas, caring for the poorest things has been less desirable, since this is not the time again. Not only do humans avoid these things that seek financial benefits because these also involve social problems that are more related to people who have a difficult advantage than others have. So it's about quality, I agree with it. It is also about equality, that the people of the land have the same option. That's what it's all about, too. I think this discussion is coming up with a lot of interesting and good things, some of which are being reminded and needed. For example, in the north, Denmark, people can go through the cures of severe health problems without ever lifting their wallet. Good if it wasn't a whisker. Ólína In Þorvarðardóttir's discussion, Olintordóttir pointed out that. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to give us some thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u45	V.E.G. President. There's only one small question I'd like to direct to the president. Yesterday, I wished for the highest. A health minister would be present during this discussion and would give us his vision of the matters of opinion presented here. This, for example, claims that a $3 billion shortage would allow the Landspians to expel and carry out the required duties. What's the best attitude. A health minister? We heard an attitude of the highest order. The Minister of Education last night regarding the National Archives photo and contributions to the State Radio. Could we get to the top of our minds? Health Minister also regarding a question of personal development? Aren't we entitled to talk about this? Is this viewed as some strange propaganda trick? Is this not a natural part of a more careful business discussion about the budget? [[The president calls.]] Has anything been heard from the highest level? A health minister? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Many have already told us that these messages have been delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u46	The President cannot tell us further, but will reiterate this message to the highest level. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u47	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir I'm sure Jónasson's son's attitude on this subject. There must be some attention at the time of the ultimate. Education minister of the Illugi Gunnarsson and the Supreme Magistrate. The welfare minister of Eygló Harðardóttir, who has large and delicate lawsuits at her disposal, does not compromise with the discussion and exchange opinions on matters to turn the minister responsible for the national hospital, whose president says that his business has not been sufficiently preparatory in the next year, taking a stand to avoid coming to the discussion when it is called. It raises questions as to whether Kristján Þór Júlíusson has no material answers just to account for the position of the Land Hospital in the budget and the personal development plans of health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u48	A respectable president. It's kind of weird that we are in the position of having the highest level of pornography. The health minister does not attend all this discussion, such as the comment and the deportation, has a heavy impact on the outcomes of the health system in the budget, especially the financial resources to the Land Hospital, but also to other health institutions, such as Akureyri. In view of the discussion of the privatization plans at the health care clinic, which has been standing constantly for the second week, a distant health minister screams at us. It is quite remarkable that the Ministers of these heavy groups have been absent almost all the time with the exception that has been mentioned here by the highest rank. Minister of Education and Department of Social Affairs. Other than that, they have been away, and that is shocking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u49	V.E.G. President. First of all, thank you very much. A president for presenting these wishes, but at the same time, I would like to direct that question to the highest level. The president will see if he feels that he can interrupt the meeting until lunch and is tempted to get the highest benefit. A health minister to come to the meeting with us. There are other factors that the General could discuss. For example, I'm going to mention the report of the Directorate of the General for which the Board of Directors and Control has settled on its own, and the matter is awaiting a discussion at the council. It is not a matter of life's concern to take that discussion at this moment, but I draw attention to the fact that there are worthwhile subjects that we could take care of until we re-created the discussion of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u50	It is the President's plan to continue this discussion, which has just begun.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u51	A respectable president. As you look at the council hall, there are three members of the government side sit in their seats, and the fourth is standing at the front door from the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u52	What more do you want?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u53	It is now all the tremendous interest in the government of this discussion, with most people being led by it, some of them. Here, members of the council come up with about ten speeches. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I don't think there's too much to say, a respectable president, even though we would throw them a ball to the head. Congress officials and their council groups now remember that they would plan their time a little better, and they would present themselves to the classes they would like to discuss and at what time, because these talks are out and south among them, up and down, and down, and the word of repetition. Ministers have been here all winter to discuss these matters with government opposition. They have come here and been in this discussion, and if we expect ministers to arrange their time, of course, they have a regular schedule, the minimum standard for the administration is to organize their discussion and to tell us what she wants to talk for a long time, at any given time, and about what lawsuits, so the Ministers can meet her wishes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u54	A respectable president. Boring discussion, says why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. He is talking about a discussion that has been going on for a second week that has actually had one purpose, that is to show the government and the administrative community to the point that they are being betrayed and desperate for normal and reasonable compensations from the same time as other employees in the country receive their corrections. It is a talk that has had the goal of trying to demonstrate these more important aspects of the government and to get it to take a note of what it is like to have the welfare system, our health system, our national hospital. [[Up front.]] This is what the discussion has been going through. Now they're getting bored. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Now they want peace. Now it's just gotten so boring because it's probably starting to bite. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] The common people are recognizing what dark acts are being done here in the name of the 2016 budget. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u55	A respectable president. Because of what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir called here just before I got into the puzzle and said I should be careful, I'm going to do it, I'll do it every time I get on the platform. I don't understand the intense excitement of the government. The fact is, this discussion has taken an enormous amount of time. I'd like to encourage the highest. To do so, and to know that he has, to try to connect himself with members of the House of Government in order to learn when the discussion can end. I agree with what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, of course, it is of utmost importance for the Congress's work that we can get information from the government's opposition when she intends to end this discussion and go to a vote, a democratic vote, showing whether more is involved with the government opposition she's been speaking here for over 70-580 hours. [[The president calls.]] That's the democratic process. I'd like to encourage you. a position of authority to allow this democratic process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u56	V.E.G. President. I have nothing to say to the President's conference board, but I agree with what. paritaprevir The 100 - year - old son of Jónasson, who has had many medical talks already. He's wanted to go to the highest. Even if only to answer questions, health ministers will be here in the hall. A senator in answer. I find it quite amazing that the Ministers don't do their duty. No, they're sitting somewhere in their offices, making the war they've done here. It must be said, then, that the exception is the highest. Secretary of education and welfare who came here yesterday. However, because of the duration of the discussion, about 70,80 hours, as well as the opposition, I have to assume that several members of the Commission have tried to come and defend their actions, reading style and saying something about the matter, so they are now involved. [[The president calls.]] But it was interesting to me to watch a video yesterday, where the former head of the House of Booths came here late in a discussion of budgets for 2013 and said that it was the U.S. Congress's right to discuss budgets well and long ago. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss two points for the ten minutes I now have, one for Hospitals, the National Hospital, and the many - yeared and desperate issues of the elderly. How sad it is to discover or become aware that it has no purpose to ask for the presence of that professional minister to have a word with them! I'm at the top of a respectable president, that what we've been trying to do with 1st. I think it's better when it's 2rd. it's getting better. Government officials have sought that contributions to the Hospital, our national hospital, have increased by about 30% in the present government. This is stated in the panel of parts. What I would like to say, a respectable president, is that this is simply wrong. This isn't right. Taking into account the benefits and compensations of less than 4.2 billion, this number is reduced by the 11.6 billion to 30% increase immediately to 7.4 billion. If you continue to accept compensation, the number will fall. It also lowers further if we take items such as surgical induction and if we take into account an endogenous increase in national service needs up to 1.7%, in terms of land hospitalisation, this increase is about to disappear. This is what governments present in support of their case, which falls on itself. If we keep moving forward and we take charge of the S-medicinal product from Land Hospital to Medical Security then it's going to be nothing. This is what we know. That is the sad truth. That's why the director of the Land Hospital and his team came to a meeting of the Gaming Committee... [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] A respectable president. Is there something wrong in the house? Should I stop?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u58	No, no, no. There's been a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u59	Is there any harm? Something wrong, huh? paritaprevir Gullious Þórðarson?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u60	Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u61	I was kind of afraid something was going on here in the house, and we should leave the house, and what a devillike state it was. Senator. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It may be normal that when you talk about these matters and the breakdown that has been presented, you will be out of your mind, and I must use that word, a respectable president. I believe that when the director of the Land Hospital, I think I was involved in the moment this huge incident occurred at the Hall of Congress, the director of the Land Hospital and his managers' staff to discuss financial proposals for the National Hospital to support the operation, it was to get immediate attention to the financial hearings whether they would be allowed to cut down or not to maintain their normal activities. Responsible managers, such as those in the Land Hospital, when they receive financial contributions, respond immediately during the first few days if they need to be cut down or reduced from service. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We can read it in the report of the greater part that in June last June more than 3,600 people were waiting for cataract surgery, about 1,200 people after hip and knee surgery, and more than 200 people after heart and coronary angiography. That's all there is to say. True, strikeers have played inside, and fortunately, they are responding to budgetary suggestions for installing money to work on these lists. Or can we say that it is a healthy and good health system that has more than 3,600 persons waiting for cataract surgery with the great difference that comes with such an operation for people who need it? I'll let me think this is enough to talk about. A respectable president. According to the National Hospital, nearly 3 billion people are needed into this package so that they can maintain their normal and productive functions. It has been outlined here, and it has been observed that when the hospital managers came to the money committee, much of the committee was expected to use spiritual violence on the part of the panels. Likely, this includes the yam. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson Thorddar, who then suffered such spiritual violence, may explain a wide variety of entrances. A respectable president. In the latter part of my talk, I still want to discuss the issues of the elderly and the desperate. That's where the same thing is going. Government leaders are listed with high numbers, 17.1% an increase, but are unable to include that number is what is to be done on the 1st of January. Nor will they discuss the population's growth, nor will they discuss the vast number of pensions and disability contributions, 47 of you. ... aman. No, it's presented in huge numbers, and it's certainly high because there are many individuals. What is the fact of the matter, however, is that in the period of this government until January 1 of this year, with the measures the government is always striving for at the beginning of June 2013, the non-reflected disability pension payments have increased by 6 of you. K. Until the end of the year. During the past few years, everyone was well - treated, and this is what governments are so proud of, 4 of you. K. So this year the increase has been 10 points. K. by tax. Of course, we should discuss the amounts of taxes, not before tax returns, since the elderly and the poor do not survive the amount that will be taxed. A respectable president. I've said here that changes made by the government last year with an increase in food taxes and so forth, such as an increase in house warming and electricity and real estate costs and an increase in housing costs, these four of you. K. They looked back on the same day as they appeared to the elderly and to the poor. Therefore, I find it completely incomprehensible, a respectable president, and it has been my main subject of this financial debate to try to ask and get an answer to why in the extreme benefits of the elderly and the desperate, payment for the elderly and the desperate, are not up - to - date, as is done for all the rest of the society who have received financial gains during this year. It's an obsession with executives who hang on to it and say it's done once a year in the budget. Then I remind you that the last government took in a gradation settlement that was negotiated immediately during the summer of 2011 and set up an 8% increase in everyone and a $150 bill. K. Because she kept what she said during our difficult years with all the cuts that must begin to be returned as soon as the situation improved. It is indeed getting much better now, perhaps as much as 35 billion leftovers in 2015, but its members are not ready to give up about 4.5 billion for the elderly and innocessively raised by normal ones as others have been this year. This is remarkable, and their shame is great. Hv. A vice president of the legal committee should be ashamed of this government tour. Then go on, continue with the count flood, which we will probably get gusts from below for the rise to the Land Hospital and all that is supposed to be, and may I pray. An opposing senator is now giving the billions and the high percentages for the elderly and the disability. I wish that, a respectable president, would be so. a future spiritist would come to discuss 6 of you. K. and 4 you. K. and might ask at the end if he would trust to bring back the 172 you. K. To this day and to the ten thou shalt be dosed as micropigs. K. which the government has gone up in them since it came into power. [[The president calls.]] This is shameful, and it shames them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He mentioned various procedures and related such, and it can be said that the budget is expected to try to shorten a waiting list and that's fine, but it's a naturally isolated part of the bill in which it is handled exclusively but not many other factors. I just wanted to talk to the senator about the answers we received from the Ministry of Health with some questions. The question was asked whether improvements would increase according to minimum wage. Responses show that there is no question of how they will increase the years 2017 to 2019. There were also questions about how many reformers lived in poverty. It is noted that the proportion of unemployed and disability lacking material quality of life in 2013 was 21.5% and 24.6%, respectively. It is a tremendous percentage if a quarter of the disability suffers from a lack of material quality of life. That's what we've been talking about, what's most likely to happen here at the council, to make things right. Those under the low income limit that year were nearly 10% of the population and a large proportion of them were in the rented market, 46%, the single largest group, and the single parents were 27%. I've felt that this is a way of speaking for something that's supposed to improve the interest of these people, not through ups and downs this year, but through the expected housing support that has not even been implemented at the council and has not been supplied. As a consequence, it is expected that all these groups can pass through and do good despite warnings given by the Ministry of Economics, including those primary warnings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u63	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir explains that the subject we've been talking about and the quality of the welfare department on a high level of unemployed and disability lacking material quality of life in 2013 is 21.5% in the above group, i.e. Among non-employed patients, and 24.6% in the list of disability. These are, of course, very striking numbers. These are all the things we know and can see, if this doesn't go unnoticed by the Strategic Watch or where it's where you've seen it in your time, it's all familiar. These are the facts that humans have in front of them when they decide whether to raise payment for the elderly and infirm in accordance with what I did to talk about earlier. I've never heard anything like that. These points are discussed by the chairman or the relief committee. No, it's never been. They just come up and pick up the percentages and pick out the bits they think will work best, as I did to the press earlier, but they don't look at nothing to discuss these things. Maybe they don't know how to speak this language, maybe they don't know, I don't know. For one thing, it is because of this striking figure that the Ministry of Health keeps on and shows that I speak as if I have done fair things to pay and pay money to the elderly and the desperate are raising back again, as in everyone else, and they receive this 17 you. K. for tax, which may be around 12 you. K. by taxes, which is now all. That's what this big disagreement has been about and will undoubtedly remain something up until the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u64	Mr. President. One thing like that. The speaker mentioned in his talk was how things are calculated in the bill, including On the basis of our proposal in the memory of the contributions to the Land Hospital, there seems to be no uplift or full remuneration. I'm worried that soon in the coming year, we'll have a budget board in our surveillance to deal with. It has been said that only by extensive means and by increasing cuts that the hospital feels unable to perform, the business should be able to perform its legitimate duties. That's why you're worried, and maybe you're part of what makes you suggest it. I'm not going to argue that there's a lot of money going on in the medical system, it costs to build a community, and we know it. We're talking about the same numbers as 2007 or 2008 that the Landspians are getting into, if I remember correctly. That doesn't make the situation the way it is. I have no reason to believe that the director of the Land Hospital is wrong, so do not forget that directors have left because they have not trusted in caring for the land hospital in relation to the funds they have been provided. I'm worried that if we don't do this, we'll lose people even more. But also because we have to think about social matters. It's not just about kicking off the box at the end of the day, as a good man said. It is worth keeping in mind that there has been some financial support available to health care services in Iceland, i.e. for the renewal and maintenance of facilities, sales, and development have been among the lowest in the country, but according to OECD, on average we spend much less money to these countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u65	V.E.G. President. Only after that. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir here talks to me in a second answer, i.e. Of course, contributions to health care, especially to the Land Hospital, the National Hospital, are exactly the same, not being driven to the commercial and otherwise. A senator was referring to a table published by OECD that is very low. Aren't we between Mexico and Greece, wasn't Mexico the lowest, but we have less than 0.1%? I haven't heard people object to the evidence. Is that not evidence of what we were talking about earlier and will likely be discussed in another answer to the hospital's financial contributions? We must look at all of this together, both for business and for equipment purchases, and for training staff up to use the tools, for example the PET scan, or the operating panels. It costs and costs a home, and it takes all manner of restraint. According to the Land Hospital, these factors have not been addressed. Then, at the end, I'm going to say something about it. A senator spoke of, if the budget is adopted as it seems today, where the governor of the Land Hospital believes that he will lack 3 billion next year, I believe that it will happen automatically that the governor of the Land Hospital will be adapting to them, they must do so. This will help us to see where the sails can be drawn, and this will reduce our service. It's on the table. This is what happens, and it makes responsible rulers of the states like the governor of the Land Hospital. That is why we say: " Let's not use these misleading numbers on the rise. ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Instead, accept reality and listen to hospital officials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u66	A respectable president. There's a little place on the ground. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, who speaks a lot about health matters and the Hospital. I'm wondering, is it? paritaprevir Kristján Möller the same senator who was in the last government? He says people should be ashamed of themselves. What did you do? A senator in his last term? There was money to be saved. What was saved? The number of annual injuries was reduced by 751, 508 - five hundred, and eight - on health issues, 68%, nearly 70% on health care. Was it the same proportion as in the other plots? No. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Kristján Möller proud of that? He added to his foreign affairs. He added to the environment. However, the Ministry of Health could have cut double the size of any other Ministry. I'm asking why. Senator: Is he proud of this? Was this under the advice of the governor of the Land Hospital? And they came and said, Let us take all these things together, and let us add to the foreign affairs, and let us add to the business? Is like that, huh? paritaprevir Kristján Möller?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u67	...open the embassy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u68	That's the way it was. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, when you were in charge? [[Up front, open up...]] When you were in charge, you took care of the health issues, much more than anything else. [[I've opened the embassy.]] [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] These numbers come from an ex-fiancator's answer. Secretary of fjármálaráðherra, Steingrímur J. Sigfursson. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's in the Senate papers. It's from you. [[The president calls.]] Was this, under the advice of the director and the director of the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u69	V.E.G. President. If I've ever had doubts about long nights meetings being really bad and being able to treat senators, I was told earlier that this is not a work song that can be used. [[Up front.]] Hv. The vice president of the budget was on the shift yesterday, but what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir was home. That's how it's been divided.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u70	...day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u71	Looks like a long wake-up job, and a lot of work can be very hard on men. It is true that during the last terms, it was very difficult to deal with the bankruptcy of the land, with 220 billion dollars on budgets on the price to be dealt with. The government that was then held responsible, but it wasn't always a lot of fun. You didn't do too much good to do, but you had to. For one thing, this is due to the actions of the last government, i.e. how the Kingdom's financial and financial capitals enjoyed today were handled. Men like what? paritaprevir Gullish Þórðarson dressed himself with stolen and wicked feathers that do not even carry them. People don't like that kind of fish. The fact is that the greater part is in its members'list that there was an increase in contributions to the Land Hospital by 30% in the time of the current government. This is wrong, as I crossed. Now, wait a minute. paritaprevir Guðlaug told Þór Þórðarson to return to answer, and for God's sake, take back the answer and read again the cuts and all that. [[The president calls.]] Could the senator go back a little further and talk to us about the swelling camps that then the government took over 12 years of the reign of an independent party and a forward squad, a bankrupt farm? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u72	A respectable president. It works so that we get the chance to turn back and ask why. Councilmen giving talks. I asked why. A senator because the numbers are here, they're all dead, but he's never right. He can't even tell the right time if he was on the shift yesterday, me or what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, but there's something else. He certainly does not want to discuss the facts. I simply asked him: " Is he proud of the way things were going during his last term? He says that because of the United States government and the Independence Party, there has been a failure. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u73	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u74	[[Foreground on: Yes.]] I must admit that I was in that government. I never remember any warning signs then being the Honourable Minister because of the situation that arose. I don't remember them. That's secondary. Let's just stick to health issues. Why does it want to be? A senator does not tell us whether he is proud of the particular way in which health care was involved? There was much more in numbers - this is in your answer, that's an answer I received from the former Supreme Court. Minister, Steingrímur J. Sigfusson. [[Up front.]] It's in the Senate papers. It is possible for each one to examine. I hear what you're saying. A senator and vice president of the United States, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, is uncomfortable and calls out for a respectable president, who I think is all right with. [[You know...]] I'm just waiting. A senator to study the answer of a former U.S. Marshal. Secretary of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. That's where all this is going. 68% of the total remainder was at the Ministry of Health, but it should have been 38% if you had cut down on the line. I ask again in my greatest kindness, because of what. A senator has put it this way: Is he proud to have dealt specifically with health issues and to spare others? Is he proud of it, or is he ashamed? It's a simple question. The numbers speak for themselves. It's in the Senate papers. [[The president calls.]] Not unless they're arguing that the last government has scheduled for the council. Well, of course it's a very special story. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u75	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator has trouble handling the right thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u76	Says who?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u77	I said that the government had taken over a failure dependent on the government policy of candidates and independents who spent 12 years defending and leading to what became. What was it like again with the entrance of the Book of Psalms in that government season at some elected time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u78	Why don't you answer the question?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u79	It held up... [[Can't you answer the question?]] This was the economic policy of the Independence Party, which we are still dying of. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I've said this before, and now the patrollers in this room are gasming one another, that it was not with any joy that had to be held in cuts and taxes and so on during the last term. The circumstances were like that, as I said earlier, about 220 billion squares. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u80	..excel...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u81	It may well be, more dignified President, that these numbers are correct, that I have not read this, about cuts. I think there's a medical system -- what, I guess it's 8 of you. Staff? 5,700,500,000 were in the Hospital in their time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u82	Relative most.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u83	Then I'll come back to that, a respectable president, whom I understand well. A senator does not want to talk. He always returns to the troubled years of the Icelanders after a crash. He does not discuss what they are providing with misleading information about the rise to the Hospital. Also, he does not discuss what I did here as a talker, and he did not answer to me about it. Moreover, he did not discuss whether he was proud to have increased in this government's time of payment to the elderly and infirm by about 10 of you. K. a month after taxation. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u84	26 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u85	- You see, it comes out of the blue because I heard it very well. The chairman of the legal committee said, 26 billion. So why don't you tell us, too, that the clients are 473/448? You see, this is the problem, Mr. Honorable President. [[The president calls.]] That's where the problem comes in. [[The president calls.]] They forget to take the number and divide it into individuals. That's the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u86	A respectable president. I don't like it when I'm lied, but it happened in a case. paritaprevir Kristján Möller. He knows it as well as I did that I was here at the Assembly Hall last night, just until about 20 minutes past three last night. I even spoke with the senator, a respectable president. I'm not transparent yet, he must have seen me, especially since we had a conversation here in the tunnel. It is an ugly political game, a respectable president, to argue that the chairman of the legal committee is not present in this discussion when I am so sure of it. It's pimps. This is a lie, a respectable president, and under this I do not sit. This may show how sour the matter has become in the hands of the government, and then I'm gonna give it to Senators Bjarts the future. Under lies, I don't sit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u87	A respectable president. It's good if you're good. The chairman of the budget committee has been sitting at the discussion until three o'clock tonight, her job here at the council is to observe the budget talk. I don't think it's necessary, though, for no reason that not everyone would notice, that maybe there would be a mix-up of evenings. At the very least, I recall that there was a special call here in the middle of the night. The chairman of the budget board would be then during the discussion. Now I know it's better than I have to say, I've once overlooked the fact that the Chairman was here when he -- I'm asking to be respected for a better course if he was wrong. [[Up front.]] I couldn't help but notice that she was at the discussion. She may have been in another part of the house watching TV. Then it's just a reason for rejoicing. I don't think this is a reason for the monsters that have fallen here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u88	Honorably the highest. President. I'm sorry if I've been wrong with you in this relationship. If it was so wrong. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir was on duty last night. She was here in the house. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór wasn't at the Watch, he was home. Last night, however, it was like that. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir was home but what? paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson of the Watch. It's not a big deal, a respectable president, though I got mixed up over there in a day or so. The fact is, however, that the chairman and vice president of the budget committee have divided the hours and nights here and the last few days, and I don't think any of the big words are needed. A senator, though I have been misdirected in terms of my days, puts it this way. I think there's something more serious here than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u89	A respectable president. The scene that took place earlier is a bit exposed to the situation. We've been trying to raise money to the health of the government and raise contributions to older citizens and disability so that they can get better terms. We are answered by the fact that we have done terrible things during the last term, and that is why people are just free of charge in the discussion right now. During our last term, we faced a miserable lot, the left control, the left movement a quarter of green supply, and the Conspiracy. We faced a unprecedented situation that was trying to close 216 billion dollars. A purse hole. That's quite a bit. It is, if I recall correctly, something about a third of the budget now. It is a vast hole, and unfortunately, to reach it, it had to be gathered in many places. But one was our goal, and it was that we would make sure and try to protect our health and welfare systems as best we could. This was the goal, so the cut-off rate for those joints was lower than that of any other team, and we stood and managed to keep it that way. But this does not change the fact that we had to cut down in the hospital and were put in temporary impairments for pensioners. It was a difficult task for us to do, but it was necessary, unfortunately. But it was always the thought that as soon as things worked out, we would turn it around, i.e. then they would first receive correction in the matter of the law. We are a little frustrated that we had toiled for four years trying to get ourselves up to zero, and it succeeded in 2013 so that we returned an excellent host to the present government, because instead of focusing their eyes on the health system sufficiently - I'm not saying that men have done anything, there have been some increases, but unfortunately not enough to work up, e.g. The list of controversies and other items that have occurred and developed - and instead of looking to the pensioners and trying to continue to raise the basic pension, the current government decides to waive on the cost of hunting and money taxes, etc. The government just made it clear that it was political and that it was what they believed was right and that it was their top priority. All right. But that's the priorities we're protesting. We are not protesting that we are getting out of difficult times. Everybody did it. The poorer and older citizens, like the whole nation, succeeded in shutting us down from our position that we were here with 18.6% inflation. She went down to over 4%. We had a steering growth of 18%, and they went down to over 6%, and so on. We had a huge debt load, and no one wanted to do business with us. It was the picture that faced us, and I think people are quite quick to forget--or maybe they haven't forgotten anything, it may be convenient for them to mention it in the context, but better for them to come here and howl higher than the bell when it soars over us, that we've done a shocking thing during the last term. I'm not proud of all the things we had to do, but I'm proud of the total good we did, and that's what I'm doing. I'm proud of the total success it is that we make it to zero and get to the right side of it. I don't like the results. That's what we're more critical of here. A respectable president. Now, I just want to talk about the issues of older citizens and desperate people and tell us why we're in this fight here. When we co-founders went to the Department of Social Affairs in 2007, it was our view that an enormous increase in basics was needed because our basic pension was very low at the time. He was ninety-five farts. K. In 2006 with those who were living together, 119 you were. K. for those who lived alone. The price at that time was enormously low and considerably below the minimum of the time. That is why changes were attempted, and between 2008 and 2009, there was a 30% rise in shallow pensions. This was done because we superiors believe that it is our job to ensure a decent standard of living for these groups, but not to create some strange impulse into this system as the highest priority. Secretary of finance has spoken for us. Indeed, it is to provide support for those who have somehow fallen out of society but may be able to function with support. However, this should not be done in such a way that the entire group is being held down to try to get a few people out of the system. I don't believe in that approach, so we've spoken against here. Happily, then, in 2011 we returned to our basic pension. What did not work out, however, is that there was a sunset penalty for the decline that went back at the end of 2013, but we supported this government's proposal in 2013 that there would be a certain degree of impairment for those with employment, I'm not going to go into the technical issues here. Also, this government decided to make it work that those with a pension of 300 yous. K. and over the top-of-the-line pensions, we supported that too. We believed there and then that men were taking the step of lifting up ideal older citizens and disability, who certainly felt that everything was going on this side. Something else I have to say about health care matters, i.e. Why are people not ready to listen to the hospital directors who come to say: "We need 3 billion just to stay gone. They get the answers that if they ask for 3 billion and get it, they just start to demand more, as if it were just demanding. Of course not. We are coming out of difficult times, after a collapse of government - dealing need. We are sailing out of difficult times over a battle with health - care professionals who have caused hardships and waitrs on hospitals that need to be worked up. It's all very bad, and I think it's important that we listen to it. Finally, I'd like to say no matter how long we deal with it here who did what 1989, 2005, 2009, 2012, does not change the fact that thousands of Icelanders live on about 200 of you. K. a month after taxation. Rather than being a fellow man, I want to ask ourselves, " Are we cool with that? ' And if the answer to that question is no, I think we should come together cross-politic and try to work ourselves out of that position. There is nothing to say that we cannot share a plan on how we change it. We in the United States have suggested a suggestion that all pensions will be raised in the same steps as the lowest wage. I've heard a few candidates agree to such ideas here during the discussion, but somehow people don't want to take the step and accept something like that, and that's what I'm having a hard time understanding. This is what our fight here has to do with, that is, instead of setting priorities in terms of getting rid of income and paying off taxes and paying most of our money, money in the health sector and older citizens and disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u90	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator before the talk that I thought was moderate in shape and about a lot of things very elegant. If we talk this way, I think this will be a more upbuilding discussion than we've seen so far. Hv. A senator spoke in much of his speech about the right thing to do, saying that we disagree about many things. We hope, though, that we will agree to build a health system that will face an enormous task of changing ages. At the medical facility in the capital area, we have five doctors under 40. There are as many as those over 70. It is the health care that we are trying to promote in order to reduce the stress of the Land Hospital. I don't find that convincing, and it's incredibly unfair to speak in this way. You can play and take out a few things, but the budget has increased by 17% since this government began; 25% has gone up to billions of health matters. I disagreed with it during the last terms, when saving was needed, that then the government used most of the money, both in proportion and in numbers, from the medical system. I think it was very unwise to add to the foreign service, improve the environment, and take so much health care. Here come people saying, "Why don't you do what the presidents of the Land Hospital tell you to do? We both know that, me and what. A senator, who did not come during the last term and say, "We're going to be doing so much more than the rest of us. Now, just add to your foreign affairs. Add to the environment. Add to surveillance agencies. I don't think this presentation is fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u91	A respectable president. In my speech, I reviewed that when we stood before 216 billion holes in the funds they had to handle in many places, and unfortunately, no one could be completely excluded from it. However, it was decided that the least surgical procedure would take place in the welfare system and in the health system. That was our decision. Then you can play with numbers in it back and forth. But one was the problem we faced was that a private part of the system was signed. It was extremely difficult to deal with that part of the medical system, however, there was a greater control of what enters the official section. I think we need to start looking at this combination, too. Today, anyone can cross into a private part of the system and open a living room and start working as an expert there. It takes a second look at the official part, and this interaction needs to be examined. I agree with what. A senator in that we also need to watch the medical clinic, and there is a efflux problem that comes from the hospital, and people need to be careful over it. There is also too much pressure on emergency departments, people who might consult the health care unit, etc. We know all of this and need to be handled. Then I don't think it's the right approach to say, "Hey, we're going to try to solve this by offering three private clinics. Rather, should we not try to dissect the problem and deal with it before people think of such exercises?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u92	A respectable president. Again, I would like to draw attention to the improvements in foreign affairs and to improving the environment, and in numbers and proportion, the cost of saving was the worst in the Ministry of Health. These are the figures that came from the last government. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson should study this answer if he doesn't believe what I'm saying, but it's in Congress documents, it's on the web. It was added to surveillance agencies, foreign affairs, the environment, 68% of the state - of - state servants were at the Ministry of Health, 38% should have been totally unchanged. Hv. A senator recognizes the flow problem that will increase tremendously, and this is the cost for the Land Hospital while people cannot get out of it. The cost will be higher if we fail to solve the problem. Similarly, there will be increased pressures and costs at the Land Hospital if health care is not working. Hv. A senator says, "I don't want private business. " I don't know where it is. A senator living in Kopavogi, but if she lives in Salatown, she uses the merit of private service. She was offered out in her own time, and she works out well for taxpayers, and she's doing a really good service survey. If people look at the Norwegian model, it doesn't matter whether it's Sweden, Norway, or Denmark, then there's been a way, and it's not because the right man controls it, so it has been in the time of the sociologists. I got it. I got it. A senator to think. I know there's a point of view in the Convergence -- why. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingagjörgdótir is very decisive in opposing the problem that makes the 20 - year - old problem stay. I just described it here, when I reached the medical doctors, that doctors obviously do not want to go into this environment. I got it. I got it. A senator to learn what was done in the North countries, what the Group of Sisters did there before blowing up this private business. [[The president calls.]] I also encourage her to study a private business in Salatown before she blows it off the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u93	A respectable president. It's often a little difficult in this room that you say all kinds of things and talk and think they're listening to you, but people don't really hear what you're saying. I didn't blow out of the table, but I said: " Isn't it more reasonable for men to review business and health care policies before people throw three clinics at dinner parties? That's what I said. I don't have any charges against private business if it's in a way that people put on it a clear frame, that there's not a business of profit, but that's the Šnon programme, we can totally look at it. But, hey. A senator is trying to stir up the dust that we have cut so much down health care that compared with the comparison, it has come out far; that we have given up on foreign affairs and the litigation classes he mentions here. As far as I know, the closing of office offices was done well during the last term, which men are now making a decision to re-open. If anyone's giving in, it's the current government. In itself, I do not agree, for I believe that the emissaries and embassies will be very supportive of the international transaction I want enough of in this country. In all of this, we need to realize that this government has made a decision that the older citizens and the poor won't need more than 190 you. K. net per month of basic life. I would have liked to have a conversation with what. A senator as to whether he really thinks it's enough. The votes that will take place here are texting them out, and there are thousands of individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u94	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for the speech. She went over quite a lot, and in ten minutes she managed to review a number of vital factors when it comes to how our community is going to stay here forever. I'd like to talk to you last year. A senator said what she said about whether we were happy that a lot of people lived on even below, I want to say, 200 yous. K. and if we weren't, how we were going to fix it. I'd like to connect it to a statement at the highest level. A minister of financial matters who suggested that if improvement would become too high and even become comparable to minimum wage, it would lead to people and especially young men who would want to be reformed because there was something better to be paid than to work. Now, for the first time, I want to say that going out on a micropower card isn't something you get in a pack of serums. It's a long, strict process. I can tell you that. Aren't we going to take the community discussion to a somewhat dangerous place when the national finance minister is actually talking about the fact that the country's pension payments are supposed to be almost a Prince of Peace to be less than a minimum wage? So, haven't we arrived in a strange place with our welfare community?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u95	A respectable president. I can't remember the numbers, but there are tens of thousands of Icelanders who get pensions. [[Up front.]] They're big groups. Of these, the number of micro-employers are about 166,17 thousand, of which about 1,600 are under 30, so that we just scan the film and figure out what financial ministers are fully equipped for the whole group. I have a bit of a problem with his reasoning, and I disagree with him. I believe, at all times, there is a group of invalids who can possibly work with or receive support, some long-term support, to get back to the labour market, but the group is, unfortunately, relatively small. Others are chronically ill or disabled and are in a position that is not possible. Then we need to ask ourselves this conscientious question: " How will we live to these people? I want it to be dignified. I know we share because people can live here with dignity and then you don't cut the whole system all over because you think a small group of people in this large group needs special support and can go back to the job market, but back to the other side. We prefer to assume that the goal is to make sure that people are well - versed. I feel that this is a top priority to me. I think it's unnatural not to want pensions to keep at the lowest wage because it's not fair to those who earn minimum wage. I don't understand why these groups are being confronted. I think it's wrong, because it's different groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u96	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. What I find to do is make the budget so fun, though we're discussing our community. This is an extremely important source of community talk that is important. I don't think it's any worse to do it here under this team than anyone else because it's just how we're going to do it. Actually, I think we need the system so that people can possibly go to the job market. I believe that living in financial security - research has even shown and strengthened it - is simply encouraging to go into society and participate. So, of course, we need to think about the overall system and make sure that people have adequate progress, but they are also motivated by it to become active in the community. This can then be saved in other parts of the government because people who are involved and who are well - mannered need less medical care. All kinds of problems are the result of living in poverty and being disabled, and they cost a lot of money. Of course, it takes all the money, i.e. to run a well - aciding well - being system. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will agree with me that there is reason to worry about the future because it can be seen, for example. When surveying the budget, the policy of this government for the future is to draw even more together. How are we supposed to be able to operate here health and health when we already have problems with it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u97	A respectable president. Three things I'd like to respond to. Senator. First of the last, I think that the expectations of people in the community for the public are out of harmony with government plans. We have a certain kind of community. We want to run a welfare community in Iceland, and we compare ourselves with other well - being states, where we are getting late again. I don't think people's expectations are that we're getting evaporated further, which becomes the inevitable consequence of the course of action. A senator mentioned. Second, I wholeheartedly agree with her on the approach to the social security system because we don't encourage anyone by starving him. It's just that way. Rather, there is to be supportive measures to support people in order to get into the workforce while running systems in which people can have their pensions. Like what? A senator knows that there are a great number of people who can work seasonally, for example. Those with serious means find it difficult to work in winter, since it is worse than it might be to work in summer. Not necessarily so that the workforce is only open to people under these circumstances. There is also great instability in the ability to earn money. It is, therefore, not to be punished immediately when people are earning more money, as we do in my opinion too much. It's been done for a long time. I'm not blaming this government alone in this regard. This needs careful consideration. Third: Yes, of course, we all discuss matters under financial circumstances because they are all subject to it. This is the major policy for what is really going to be done, in which the cards are shown in all judicial groups. The current government has more than produced financial policies than laws and plagion proposals, so it is reasonable to have the discussion done in this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u98	Mr. President. In this recent budget discussion, the main focus on our government opposition has been on three major issues: to ensure that pensioners have a suit like that of employees in general, and that they will not be less prominent than people who build their money on a labour market. Second, there will be natural, verbal, and well - supported wishes from the governor of the Land Hospital for a sufficient budget for hospital management and for the maintenance of his home so that he can provide for his assigned role. Third, ask yourself, " Is it not to expect the first part of the board of directors to have the highest promise? ' In contrast with the law, a minister of education has made it clear that the receipts of the Reich Radio or Radio Bank will not be restricted from what is currently available. It has been interesting in this discussion to see the lack of logical support by the executives for the same policy in these three main categories. In fact, we have seen in the matter of pensioners, refugees in the greater part of the government, and individual legislators acknowledge mistakes and mistakes regarding their former position. Therefore, we will seek the votes ahead at the council to give members of the State Department the opportunity to give a clear answer for their vote on this national agreement. It is interesting, however, to see how the government president has been hard on this discussion in his attitude toward pensioners and, of course, is at the top of the most preposterous comment. Secretary of finance that it is an independent goal to have a pensioner stand lower than the average wage population, and it is in some way socially damaging that pensioners are fully equal to people on the minimum wage. I think that statement will be his and the leadership of long-term decrease. In fact, it is odd to hear such a statement in the field of surveys that 95% of the population agrees with the main emphasis we here in the administration position has spoken of as the status of a pensioner with people in a general labour market. Then, at the administrative point, we made extensive adjustments to the budget bill that will be agreed on by the final payment of this bill on 2nd. There again, council members will have the opportunity to demonstrate their will, key issues to the position of pensioners to the general pay and to expand their contributions to the Land Hospital as well as to other social projects, such as increases on the roof of the maternity clinics up to 500 of you. K. and increase the limit of children improvement. Interestingly, when the government's proposal to change the budget, it is readily available. True, they include additional expenditures, but there are many requisite income proposals, and it would be a great benefit to society and show that other policies can be made easily and financially responsible. I'm not going to rephrase this brief talk the many points that we find in our suggestions for changing the law. They are numerous, and they look for progress. But I'm going to finish my case by reminding you of the importance of the discussion that has taken place here. The people have been given the sincere intentions of the administrative element toward the nationalistic issues that we have highlighted in the discussion. No longer is there any doubt in the community that the administrative body intends to ensure that pensioners are less fortunate than people in the general labour market and equal in the current year as well as the next. It has also become clear from the discussion that the administrative body does not observe the warnings of the Land Hospital management committee regarding the next year's management committees. There is ahead a disaster on the State Radio, and there is a serious danger of the resolution of that important community organization if nothing has to be done. We remember with our proposals here at 2nd. The budget guarantees that the Generals' minds need to be expressed on these key issues, but we'll also consider further proposals at the 3rd. continue to clap the stone if this part of the government cannot be added to the discussion. It is our duty to present a choice in the discussion of budgets, to measure him with logic, to keep the management team in line and to ensure that decisions against the public need to be answered, as there are many examples in the bill here to treat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u99	Mr. President. Hv. In this discussion, members of the government stand by tore up a number of ills at the present bill. I find it important at first to say what I've come to in my first two talks on the subject that it is unfortunate for all political issues to come together in one bill for financial gain. While important legal tasks, such as providing a transport plan or strategy for developing cooperation or what it is now, are not being carried out, political dating decisions are being made in the budget. Many have wondered that this discussion lasted a long time. People don't have to be surprised because it's really packed up all the major political issues we should have been talking about all over the fall. And I want my party, the left movement ◯ green supply, making serious comments to this work, saying that it is only natural that this will be taken into consideration because we cannot be pressing political, giant opinions together in this way. However, there is a clear trend in this government to do so, likely to avoid a difficult discussion, where people are not prepared to cope and to receive legitimate legal treatment. Of course, it is easier to collect all of these into one document. But that does not mean complaining about the discussion, such as why. Some of the directors have done so. During the short time I have in mind, most importantly, I mention what we left-green senators consider the greatest injustice in the budget, and that is, first of all, the benefit of a pensioner who is standing out here, except for another day, Mr. President, yet one day, these people are standing outside and reminding of their terms. As we have seen in what I've said during the discussion, there's no difference that these groups have a percentage rise. The big issue is why the percentage increase is calculated. It's hard for me to believe why. Congress officials face the fact that a large group of pension workers sees the need to make a painful provision, income up to 180 levels. K. or, increasing by several percentages when all of us know that this is not enough to survive a month. We need to take this discussion out of the fact that we're talking about percentages that all of us have to go to rhythms, but we have to look at whether the system we live in is just. It is not enough to say that everyone will have percentages if the system we're building is unjust. It is unjust for those who cannot choose their lot whether they are desperate or elderly to be judged for not having enough money to make a living. It is true that large groups among these people are judged to this low standard of living. It also applies to groups of them that the income they try to earn continues to diminish in excess of a dollar, where we have specifically talked about the special supply they earn. Society are judged by their way of handling their most vulnerable groups. We have been brought up here on the subject of children naturally based on recent events. But we can truly include the group of disability and the elderly and how we treat our most vulnerable groups. It says something about us as a community. Hv. The members of the greater part have the opportunity to do something about these matters. We have suggested that these groups be improved in line with what has happened in the general labour market so that their income will be comparable to the minimum wage rate, i.e. 300 up. K. per month. I've heard some of them. The members of the board describe their will in that direction, but the will must be done, and it would be important to receive some such signal from the head. Councilmen and the highest. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? Second, I would like to mention the land hospital that has been normally discussed. They are not responding to the fact that pressures will increase in hospitals. The hospital directors have provided information that only deals with demographics, increasing pressures, and changing social dating, which are more likely to take advantage of hospital services. Only demographic evidence requires an increase of 1.7% in the capacity of the hospital. Also, there are some of the better things that have been done in the hospital, which are related between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of finance. Also, the need for maintenance is not met. While we are in the government position, we agree that there's priorities, that's where we're supposed to put extra money, and that's where we agree with the country that I think it is. There you go. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers of the Management Board have the opportunity to do something, to accept some of the suggestions presented here, or to introduce their own. Finally, I would like to mention a third of the cases that may have been at the top of our presentation, which is the State Radio. That case really surprises me after I've reached the highest level. In spring, a minister of education introduced it, promising that there would be a decline from the decrease in radio charge last year, but it was decided that the funds we agreed to be restored should be restored. V.E.G. In fact, a minister appeared during springtime, saying that it would be inconceivable to continue reducing the price, to argue with them, and to participate in the discussion, as well as to continue to give a good argument. It is designed to form a mental picture that already there has been a great deal of control over the government network. V.E.G. Minister spoke of 5% economy. He also pointed out the fact that the property has been sold to improve radio debt, but he also added, explaining how the cost of the distribution system had been greater than predicted, although it is also clear that the Government Radio Management at the time was difficult to take some alternative options when it was made possible to transfer its broadcast to digital form. At that time, she received a number of offers, so there may have been no obvious choice at the time, but it is clear that the cost has increased. The TV has provided a vision for the future, a policy that has been in harmony with that, or at least I can't hear better, as a dog. Councilmen have turned into publicity, e.g. to improve the service of the scattered, distributed, and produced, and improve material for children, of course, has enormous cultural roles. Still, it seems to be the highest. Minister of some injurity will not have his bill taken from the government. I can't understand it any other way than that some in the board of directors are simply against the idea of public radioting. We had a great talk last night on the public radio, and I realized that they were asleep. The members of the management team who participated in that discussion would be in favor of the idea of public radio. V.E.G. During the discussion, a minister repeated it. But he is left entirely to himself, and he is not expecting any reforms as it has been. In this case too, I say so. Councilmen and the highest. Government and government ministers have the opportunity here and now to resolve this and give due consideration to this strange insult to the public service agency, which no one really trusts to explain. These three cases have been the highest. It would be my wish that we were prepared for our language. These are issues involving justice, i.e. how we divide the quality, how we feel we should live with the most vulnerable groups in society, and on the other hand, this is a matter of enormous importance, i.e. The hospital, and the health - care system can support the role and requirements we make. Third, this is the case with the nation's largest cultural institution. There are no small things underneath. They may be quite ambiguous to the administrative part, but I would like to say, in the end, Mr. President, that I am sad to have received no evidence in this discussion of wanting to listen to these changes or to any other adjustments that the lesser part has provided and that there is a good reason for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u100	A respectable president. I think it would be good to start this speech by speaking only about the process of making financial contributions, working skills that will hopefully and probably improve following the approval of public finance bill as a law of law, because in my opinion the process is not necessarily the best in the world and even if they were the best in the world, I mean that it is primarily a conflict of the environment in which the work is going to take place, which is in the question of working here on a town. I don't think it's such a strange thing that people who do bad things happen at the General, I don't think that's the way it is. I'd rather think it'd be the environment and a cover-up about how budgeting is done, how the law-enforcement process is causing the biggest issues around here, and the most meaningless issues. Often, that discussion becomes a work ethic because it is acceptable. I certainly hope that the public financial bill will come about by fixing a lot of the problems, and I suppose some will be following that, as can be expected when things are changed at the same time, but from that point on, there are some topics that I consider important to reiterate here and to be included at the end of the discussion. Above all, it is the interests of the poor and the elderly, who are always left to me in one way or another, and that is intolerable. Most people cannot simply stop being cripples. They can't get a raise, they can't work harder, and those who can do it, they usually have a degree of punishment. In my opinion, the loss of income is the worst factor of the social security system, whether in terms of sensibilities or disability donor. The reason is that I simply consider it a system to discourage and reduce the impulse to work. I don't see that there would be an increase in costs at this party, at least not much. I think he'd increase very little, if anything over his head. On the other hand, I think it would increase people's freedom to act. I think it would increase economic activity. I think people would be taken out of a certain poverty trap. I mean, poverty is very expensive because it contains a huge waste, both in the part of the individual's willingness to live in economic activities and in the choice that then controls the availability and demand but also simply in the way that people can live their lives free. To say that, I think it's very important to reevaluate that system, and it's being revised. But now I've had them for a long time when I'm talking about disability and others who have trouble always have to say in some way that they're named at work and they're coming back soon. Of course, this password is very stretchy when something is being promised into the future - it has actually become that way. But I would especially like to say that I hope that this committee is primarily a good one, and if it takes time, it takes time. Sometimes that's just the way it is. But we need to take action until and, in my opinion, we need to respond by increasing our expenses, which I know will not be as useful as you would like. But for the time being, I feel that I must have it because the poor cannot pause their disability, they remain desperate while waiting for the committee, as well as a pensioner. When it comes to State Radio, I've had a lot of mixed feelings for having a national radio, but I've always ended up on the side of being in favor of a state radio in Iceland. If we were in a much larger community where economic theories worked completely, I'd probably be against state radio, except if I lived in Britain because I'm a special BBC fan if it's done, but it's more of a personal opinion than some economic theory. However, in such a small community, I feel that it is normal and necessary, unfortunately, that private people are in some way competing with the State in individual fields and especially when it comes to the media. Of course, it's unusual, but there are things that will be unusual in such small economy and things that simply do not measure up to the classical teachings that I otherwise cling to the theory. Real life can often be very different. However, nervosa is the tax tax returns I'm sorry about. I think it's really bad, really, in all respects, except that it's making money. While this nasal tax system is very important to me, it seems very important to me that my nose tax would be sufficient for the State Radio business than to say that I would rather look in the future so that a nasal tax phenomenon would be stopped and if possible, it would be forbidden. I think it's a decommissioned form of tax returns, and it takes the greatest out of those with the smallest amount of income and especially those who have no income and still has to pay some taxes all of the time. Two things cannot be avoided - I would mention more if I had more time and then the natural people want to finish this discussion until later - but these are the prison issues. The majority suggest less than absolute necessity. The smaller portion contributes to a total of 80 million, more than 45 million, which, of course, is somewhat more than zero, but not enough in my opinion to meet the minimal need for the prison system. I hope that there will not be a disaster in that category, but I have to admit that I'm worried about it, simply because of a lack of money. It's not even a matter of course, although I worry about other things too that I'm not going to do here. Most important, I'd like to mention one of the things I think, with the more important things, that we have a lot of money. It's U.S. Marshalalis. In the theory of democracy held in Iceland, the General Assembly is the head of the government. This surveillance role is used by the General and by various means, including heavy water, as well as by various means. Board of Directors and Overseers, but also the fine agency, the Generals agent. A member of the General Assembly, as if I am the office, is an extension of the General Assembly, and if we don't make enough money, I think it undermines the credibility of the Generals, by divulging the credibility of the idea that the Council should rule this country, not the government. Now, however, the government is simply in charge of the country, but that is something we should change and one way to help change it, at least to some extent over some period, is to have the General Agent financed as needed. The adjustment proposal for my share is about 15 million. K. increase to the U.S. Marshal so that he can take the initiatives to the best of his ability. Let us not forget that the initiative observations turned out to be extremely important on the subject of the so - called leak problem at the time, and I know that it was uncomfortable for the government, but it must be. That's why the All Congress agent exists, that is, to be uncomfortable when something went wrong and then a heart attacked, and then a initiative needed to be taken into consideration. In history, it will end in my opinion as one of the most remarkable cases in the past two years or so. The greater part, however, suggests that some 13 million will be cut down to the Generals' agent and that this is reasoned with him by the fact that the U.S. Marshal of the Council is now in General's housing but has once been in rent - houses of some 131.74 million, 13.5 million. K., up or down as it goes and happens. But this includes ignoring the high cost of having our own housing. There is maintenance, food and security costs. It is not yet, that is, the availability of the disabled by the agents of the Generals, who are known to me as a complete disgrace and are not to be tolerated. This is the agency to receive the civil complaints to the Generals to monitor the authorities and there is no access for the disabled. I don't think that's entirely absurd. It costs money. Among other things, it costs money, and the thought involved making money for renters. A member of the Generals has reported repeatedly in the many fields that the Council needs to make clear what is intended for that institution. I suggest that the Agency, the U.S. Marshal's agent, be able to succeed in taking the initiative and accepting the complaints of the citizens without any problem. I view it as the foundation of democracy in Iceland, no less or less, or one of them. The whole situation with the General agent as it is going to turn out, if the vote goes as I hope it won't, but probably will, I believe it undermines the credibility of the Generals and I feel that the whole body should take that problem very seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u101	A respectable president. Now the latter part is coming down, even to the end of this fine discussion of the government's budget in another round. I don't want to extend the discussion to unnecessary matters, but there's reason to zoom it up a bit. On December 8, - some days ago, we have no more sense of time, and we count the days here in our discussion - the minor groups presented the changes in the budget. There we stressed some points that we have discussed extensively in this discussion. The main focus there was to ensure that micro- and senile pensioners would enjoy the same rates as those with the lowest salary. That is a perfectly reasonable suggestion, only natural, and we view it as a natural correction or a proposal to live up to a fundamental legal case. It has been noted in the discussions here that the members of the board of directors do not agree on this, and this is unfortunate. We also suggested, in the change of the memory of the part, to add funds to the Land Hospital. Research has shown that the public agrees that he is the key health - care institution we want to support. This is a key agency that has had to deal with major cuts in recent years, which in many ways has been able to keep the work strong and to build it up. The change in the size of the part is now being proposed to the budget that the hospital managers consider to be the minimum to carry on the same service. In these adjustments, we expect to add to an investment project for education. For example, even if there are not large sums of money, for the purposes of immigrants in Iceland, where there are only a few cents or millions - which are very small in the larger context, when we talk about budgets - they can do so much to help people become independent members of an Icelandic community that must compete with us all. This seems to be quite clear, and has become clearer in the discussion, to the management sector and the highest. The government has a different focus than the lesser part. The emphasis is especially on the income side. It is possible, as we have said, to give up, or to reduce the government's income at the same time that the future is not being built up. The most important institutions of the welfare system that have come under attack and have had to endure major cuts after a crash; cuts that everyone understood were normal at that time. The ideas of my part - when we make these adjustments, which certainly aren't a new bill, but that's only corrections on the main - are pushing into the budget bill, as it comes from the cow, i.e. from the highest. Government, thought of justice, and of human society. Two o'clock. has, unfortunately, not given much understanding that these suggestions are not a hobby or a special interest in minorities. Rather, they are viewed as public matters and bring benefits to the community. Hv. Sadly, most members of the board have done their part in speaking down those suggestions. The person standing here is a man of optimism by nature and is still quite likely to be seen when it comes to votes. And I must say, I look forward to her. This discussion cannot really be summed up, which has certainly become a long one. the budget of the main affairs of the council. This is the biggest and most complex issue in every government and all its political emphasis is seen here. This cannot be summed up without talking about how the discussion has developed and how it has been done. Sadly, we appear to be trapped in the annual cycle that the budget is being won and submitted by the highest power. Government. First, other groups and generals accept the bill, look into it, try to figure it out, suggest improvements, and criticize things that are critical, etc. Then there's a change proposal, both from the highest level. Government and what. The budget, and it has to be said that this year these adjustments were unusually numerous, more dozens if not on either side of the hundred, unusually large sums, more billion, and it has been involved. Perhaps the vast number of adjustments made the bill delay very long on its way into the council. This has also had a bad effect on the discussion because we've been discussing matters in a race at Christmas, so to speak, and it's a very bad idea. Since then, the discussion has been marked by the tactics that we in a short future have wanted to criticize here at the General Assembly, that it is the greater part in question, does not feel the need to consult or have a conversation with others. The smaller part is a fierce one and wants this conversation, at least wants to know where it is, but when the discussion goes to the pole that there's nothing to talk about, etc. I'm sorry, it's nothing but normal. I'm afraid I'm out of my treasure. This work is a problem for the General. Of course, we all have some responsibility for them, but it must be said, as it is, that the greater part and the head of the council are responsible for the better management of our work, that we somehow measure up to the social reform requirement. The community wants reform, not just in our jobs at the council, but in the general community. If there's something that collapses and the report of the WHO Committee taught us, it's that we want, need, and trust in reforms. I'm sorry, but I think this lack of reform here at the General Assembly is a sign that the U.S. Senate is a submerge of the community and is a reason to criticize it. In the bright future, we are very proud and content with our introduction to the discussion. We are in a state of mind behind the changing proposals of the memory of the part. In our discussion, we have given one of seven spectacular, informative and remarkable debates, and we believe that they are important introductions. As I say, I guess there's a vote. The person standing here, the optimist, as I described earlier, looks forward to that vote and hopes that the result will be positive and society's well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u102	A respectable president. Now, the pleasant time has come for us senators to vote for a change in the budget of 2016. It's been a nice job, and I'd like to thank you. Councilmen sitting at ease. The budget is a great deal for the work and the rest of the work. I now declare that there are many changes made from the majority of things that are very beneficial for land and nation. I've stressed the importance of the interviews I've been making in the process of making these changes that most of the proposals are for the foundation of society and that we are still putting great emphasis on and priority on everything that has to do with health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u103	A respectable president. 2nd. for 2016 a budget bill has taken a long time, since we have been dealing with the basic issues, whether sensibilities of old and micro-energy pensions should be equal to paid people in the country, and if they should respond to the moderate and natural wishes of the Land Hospital's management of reforms at the hospital. We at the government stand have proposed a detailed change form that will be agreed on afterwards, and everyone will look for improvement, they'd bring us a better community if they were to be accepted. In general, we in the United States will be represented by the proposals of a greater proportion of legal committees as well as with the rest of the budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u104	Mr. President. This budget has been long because it has been under way for big, important political matters. For example, what we members of Congress have opportunity to do in this vote is to improve the quality of a pensioner to the level of earners and thus add to the ideal of the most vulnerable groups in the country. We also have the opportunity to deal even more with the land hospital situation, which has expressed its own opinion of the bill and considers the lack of money. So here we go. Every group member had the opportunity to do good things. With the members of the left movement the green supply will sit by most of the proposals of the greater part because we believe the overall policy of the bill is wrong. The overall policy of the bill shows the policy of reducing the consumption of cohesion. It smells like the same policy that's about to evict the tax system and reduce the combined consumption we have, so we're going to sit by most suggestions. But in other respects, we will describe our position in an consideration of outstanding suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u105	A respectable president. The financial bill is the highest policy target. Governments. We, in a short future, will sit by, but we will, of course, support the good changes made in the smaller parts designed to replace and put more human weight, so to speak, on the budget where we stress the compensation for the disability and pensioners, we stress the building of the Land Hospital and institutions that have prepared a major cutback from a crash. Our suggestions are in the background, so Icelandic society is united, not that some groups rise at the expense of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u106	President. Piranths like others will sit by in a few, and vote for other lawsuits out of their hearts. The less part affects the budget, since we live in so - called majority. It is my earnest wish that members of Congress be loyal, and I know that it is just wishful thinking, that the poor and old-tempered people get the same benefits as other community groups. I don't necessarily expect that, but that's our sincere wish at least. We've made excellent adjustments in our memory. They are primarily to show what our course is. But, of course, more part of it is going to live as always.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u107	A respectable president. We now vote for the budget. It is a joy to know that we are on the right path. The laws of the law, which is extremely important, are inaccessible. We are still setting priorities in health and pension insurance, and I encourage all those interested in these matters, and I hope that they are as many people, to study the facts. I hope, though, that the discussion has been the way it has been, it will cause us to continue to discuss the important issues, for ahead of us are a very big project and challenges to the nation of Iceland. What I have found, however, is that we need to set priorities. This means that we need to save in certain areas. I hope, more dignified President, that in the following discussion the important discussion will be taken, for it is as important as what we would like to put the money into.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u108	A respectable president. It's bad money. Sadly, they contribute to a greater inequities in society than they have ever been before. Worse yet, they find themselves in the case of the elderly and the poor, who are not to receive the same compensation as other people in the land. The financial laws are bad because of the way more part of the land hospital is treated, the national hospital, which is not to be given enough money to pursue the work done by well - employed employees with great enthusiasm. And then they also have a bad attitude toward the State Radio, the great cultural institution here that also plays a highly secure role. A respectable president. I'm going to sit next to most of the people here. I'll vote against something and, of course, vote with the good suggestions the smaller parts of the budget are moving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u109	A respectable president. Here we call for more attention to priorities. I'd like to remind you that the government has decided to place 90 billion plus into a debt crisis. In the short future, we have repeatedly discussed this matter, so I refer to the Father's Houses that this is not a matter of priorities. Only a fraction of that amount would be sufficient to improve the quality of nursing and disability. It's just that way. As mentioned earlier, we will sit next to each other. There are many excellent changes made on the bill. I'm putting in question signs of what the government is doing to a large-scale change proposal on its own bill. I also put a question mark on the many changes that come from the greater part and that mine knows inside museums and in councils. But as I say, many of these are good people, but I don't like the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u110	Mr. President. Now it's time for what many have been waiting for, to vote for the budget. It is important to remember that the basic operation of the state funds is not particularly good, unfortunately. The profit that has greatly diminished between discussions, which I now believe are not very happy with independents, is based largely on irregular teams, such as interest money and so on. It's true what's been said here. The bill has made enormous changes on the part of the government, suggesting that the bill was not well prepared when it arrived. Um... it's clear. Similarly, the greater part has made great changes, many of which are very critical, especially because they are based on you, on your mind - set decisions, i.e. Decisions based on who are the members of the budget board and who have access to legal committees. Bringing the museum back to the budget committee is not a good practice. [[The president calls.]] They're living in a professional career in recruitment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u111	A respectable president. There's a reason to wish. Councilmen, and especially so. The budget, congratulations on the preparation that has taken place before this vote at the end of the 2nd district. of budgets, which are at the same time large financial laws, in effect a reimbursement laws, but at the same time we see that with them, the government's success is being established in improving the interests of all. In fact, a respectable president, unlike what has been said here in total carelessness, I trust that people will not be wrongfully wronged, that Iceland has not been more measured than under the rule of this government and has continued to grow. Differences in terms of interest have not been as small as it is today, in the history of this government, in terms of financial improvement have been no greater. Of course, we will continue to add to it, but we do so with reason and with the actions outlined in the laws of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u112	Mr. President. The financial bill and the changes we will make here votes for are mainly defined by the highest. A government intends to keep older people and micropunchers in favor of the worst in society. That's a serious thing. The number of patients in the hospital should not be replaced, and there is a meeting at the Kingdom Hall. But perhaps the most interesting thing, Mr. President, is that for the first time since collapse, my recovery is between years. That's very interesting about this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u113	President. At a vote on a budget bill, political policy is presented. Here we have an unusually stiff right government, which displays indiscriminateness toward the elderly and the poor, showing a lack of understanding and seriousness in regard to the Land Hospital, a ◯ State Hospital, a threat-temperature and missions against the State Radio. All of this is at stake in these right - hand financial laws, which govern the Sigmundur of Shimmer Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u114	A respectable president. What's most enjoyable about these budgets is that we can add to many of the team that we in the advance group fought during our last term. As we have seen, congregations have never been greater, and we place much money in the health system and in the elderly and in the poor. I found it unusual to hear members of the government opposition complain that there had been a great change to a financial committee. I think that's a good thing. I think it would show strength to the Generals, but we, most members of Congress, have long talked about strengthening the Generals, and I also thought it would be foolish to hear someone complaining about getting the museum back to the Generals. Someone claimed that they had a better place with the officials. If there's been something that's been proved to be a failure for the last budget, the last government, it's the outposting of the museums. [[The president calls.]] The land has been severely affected, and I am glad that more of the legal committees have taken steps to get them back to the budget board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u115	Mr. President. These budgets clearly reflect how dangerous the government's course is to the land, for these laws are inexplicable financial laws. These are poor financial laws for the elderly and the poor. It's a bad budget for our Land Hospital, our national hospital. These are bad financial laws for the country, and these are bad laws for the education system in the country and for the health system. These are bad financial laws because priorities are being set in them for the wealthy and the wealthy, thereby adding to the country's imbalance. I see it in the face of some members of the council here that they do not feel comfortable with my speech, but this is just the cold reality. [[Up front.]] It's bad money. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u116	A respectable president. Iceland is controlled by more things that do not want to do as well with older, desperate people as others do. They do not want to participate in the restoration of the health system. They don't want to run a proper public radio, State Radio, decently speaking. That's what these budgets show. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u117	V.E.G. President. When it comes to giving a vote at 2nd. I would like to point to an ad published in newspapers today that states that 95.4% of the Icelanders disagree with the government. Actually, I don't know who the 4.6% is, it's probably the government. This shows how the government has found large banks in the country and who will attack. The elderly and the desperate are attacked by refusing recovery, by denying the rise in the next year that everyone else is receiving, and by including the opening of the embassies and rebuilding the office of the State Master, and by creating some new travel agency to work with the rest of the tourist facilities in the country. That's the priority of this government. I must say, a respectable president: Shame on you, senators, for treating our smallest brothers and sisters this way!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u118	President. I want to add what I said earlier that I feel very sad that none of the mutual suggestions that we made in the smaller parts will be approved. I also find it very sad to know that nothing has happened and that nothing has been heard in the highest part of the world. The Minister of Education to see if the radio fee will be dropped or if the Minister's proposal will be approved between discussions. I don't like it when large groups of people are held in some kind of limbo. This has happened to the elderly and to the poor. This has happened to the State Radio, and this has happened to the patients of the country, since conditions at the Land Hospital are very dangerous and dangerous. It is not responded in an effective way in these budgets, and it is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u119	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the work that has taken place on a budget committee to review the budget bill and for the fine cooperation we've had with the committee for changing the bill as we have received new information. Then there's a focus change from the Committee. I would like to call attention to some of the big things that really matter to me. The government's income grows by some 7 billion. That's important. The reputable tax revenues are growing considerably. It shows that there is a drive in Icelandic society. The pay is rising by about 7 billion when the council is met, by about 7 billion more than what we saw to the next year's salary and compensation. What's in this bill and what makes these changes is the most clear sign we can get in our area of the world about a land we're taking so thoroughly, the power to buy grows far beyond what we can generally expect. We are giving suggestions on how to exchange the benefits because we are doing better. [[The president calls.]] And the entire argument in this discussion has been that it should be changed somehow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But let us not lose sight of the fact that everything is going up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u120	A respectable president. This is where it rains. Secretary of finance is improving the interests of the state's funds. How, though, is it possible to use the current space? [[In secret.]] It is not being used for the elderly and the desperate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u121	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u122	Now we, the government side, have fought for eight days and seven nights for the interest of the elderly here at the council Hall, that they get as much compensation as the people of the labour market, and that they do not remain behind the laws of the government. We have fought for the National Hospital, that a contribution to the State Radio will not be impaired, and now it is absolutely clear that the government has no intention of taking back his betrayals with the elderly and the desperate, or the right of the National Hospital or the State Radio, the largest cultural institution in the country. We will continue this struggle even if we need to let the discussion end with the 2nd. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it will be shocking for the general public, especially the elderly and the desperate, to observe the vote just below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u123	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The budget and the Senate board for the much work that has been done with the budget bill. I also want to use this opportunity to recall a few words that fell during the last term from a representative of the World Bank that made me think deeply about. He said it was a frozen time he came to a country where everyone thought there was going to be a raise and a protection on the welfare system. He viewed it as unique to this world and, indeed, an Icelandic community as the way we have joined together and kept our arms around the welfare system. We also see this in a discussion about the budget bill for 2016. The decision is not that we want to put more money, it's just how much. I think we can still come together again, add up, and continue to do better and help make Iceland even a better community than it already is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u124	A respectable president. Here, statements are totally out of touch with reality, for example, continuing to state that there is an inequities to increase, which is just wrong. What is right in that regard is that it has not been the same today. [[For example, consider: What is the standard?]] Then here comes why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller claims that it is a scandal that this government does not reinvigorate. [[Up front.]] He quite forgot to trace how the last government would have improved over and over again, or what? Maybe she didn't? [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Is it not the case, a respectable president, that improvements are being made in line with pay development, even if this happens at times other than raise in pay? [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Take it up: wrong.]] [[Take it up: wrong.]] What the government has said to be here is nothing more than a cheap trick. [[The president calls.]] They're trying to dust people's eyes, try to make people unhappy by claiming that they're being betrayed about something they were inside when they were.... [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I need to be able to talk ahead of time because I can hardly hear myself from the shouts and callings, for it is a delicate matter to point out the facts in this subject. [[The president calls.]] The fact is that older citizens and disability are being added to the development of a labour market, adding much more, whether in a percentage or in a centenarian, but the last government ever succeeded. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[To the point: This is wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u125	A respectable president. Especially am I glad that we are going here for a democratic vote on budgets for 2016 after a very long discussion of government opposition over the last days and weeks. How delighted we are that with these funding, we are once again adding to the community, both in health matters, in health matters, and in other aspects, as well as in matters affecting the country! This may include fiber - opticization of the whole country, port, airport, and other features. Admittedly, there is a hole in it when the government's opposition has come here for the rest of the discussion, and it still does, talking about how this government is attacking the elderly and the microorganisms when the numbers show everything else. If we compare ourselves with what is taking place under the control of the government here in Reykjavík, we will see that we are primarily cutting down to the elderly and desperate, taking meals of the elderly and the microchip, and that will show up in the same direction and appear during the last term in these categories. [[The president calls.]] If it's possible to criticize the current government for anything, it's that we haven't pulled back enough of the last government in the last terms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] That is what this government is doing and will continue to do, and it is a cause for rejoicing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u126	A respectable president. What a pleasure it would have been if it were the highest! One prime minister would still have been with us during the discussion and have had a conversation about just what he had in the past. Then he would have received the information that it was done in the middle of 2011, with significant increases in basic living space due to the design of collective agreements that year. At that time, it was a political decision not to leave behind older citizens in this development as it is now being decided. A respectable president. We can carve it back and forth. The fact is, however, that thousands of older citizens and disability need to draw life on some 200 of them. K. a month after taxation. Now each one will answer, " Would I trust in Jehovah to do so? ' I think everybody in here will answer that question no. So why don't we try to get together to do something about it rather than receive this kind of shipment from the government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u127	Mr. President. I must come up here and protest what is said repeatedly about this vote and has been shown in the discussion, that the government is violating the rights of the people who are being paid by the social security system. We have legalized the increase of compensation to the country's salary development unless the index price of consumer consumption increases more than pay. Not now. Therefore, micropair and elderly persons are ensured by an increase of 9.7% that is now effective at the years, and improvements in the last January 1 were increased by 3%. When the two increases are combined, it is clear that during a 12 month period, improvements are increased beyond pay in the country. Yet, men come up here repeatedly wearing it on the government in effect to be breaking the law. Why not start to rejoice that we have a head in our position to increase both the cost of money and, at the same time, put more money in our country's infrastructure, including the human population with a huge amount of pay, so much that it counts to a quarter of a quarter of a billion dollars in this financial bill? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u128	Mr. President. Of course, it's a clever thing to hear. Prime Ministers are listed here and amassing the progress that has been achieved in equal terms, which were achieved primarily in the past government when all measures of the current government; decommission of capital taxation, energy taxes, reduction of market costs, eroding out the tax system, decreasing tax levels, increasing food taxes; returning all increasing inequities. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] You don't have to look far, all you need to do is look to research and data. [[Up front.]] For example, let us watch OECD, which has directed them to recommend its member countries not to evict the tax system because these measures aim to increase the level of inequities. Iceland's government has chosen not to listen to OECD's tip. How clever it is, then, to hear a government that cannot be called an inconsistency in all its action boasts of the success of others! [[Up front.]] V.E.G. One prime minister says that this is a place where happiness is born. The public in this country is fully capable of reaching their own conclusions myself, so I can promise you the highest. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u129	A respectable president. You can have all the statements you want, but the numbers speak for themselves. They ask: " Where does my recovery go? He's been on health and pension insurance. People can speak out of it the way they want, but these are just facts. Now I get it right already. Government opposition often says that it is unfair to say that they saved their last term because they had to. But there is also the priority in saving money. That number is available. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then secretary of finance, answered that question in a Senate document. Where was the first place taken down? In health matters, both relatively more and, of course, in numbers too, that is the largest sector. These numbers are available. So there's a hole in it when it hits. Today, members of Congress come and say that they care only for health matters. [[The president calls.]] I can assure you that the presidents of the Land Hospital did not come during the last term and said: Please take us away, but add to the foreign affairs and the environment. [[The president calls.]] They didn't say that. I promise you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u130	V.E.G. President. Let us be clear of the officials of the government here talking about the wages of the elderly and the desperate. Until this time, during all this terms for two and a half years, the improvement in social security has increased by 10s of you. K. Last year, there was 4 of you. K. Of the 10 in, actually 3,400 k. who came from taxes. [[Up front.]] At the same time, the tax of food increased from the government, and there were other increases. These 4 you've got. K. Gone like the dew before the sun. I really think it's pathetic, and I'm sorry for the government leaders to come up here and describe it as they do. [[Up front.]] They are talking to people who after their operation on 1st January and who cheat on retrospective payments this year and who cheat not to raise agreements as much as next year - they're talking to people they give out 186. K. per month. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The secretary of the budget gets 61⁄2. K. and Prime Minister is also receiving yours. K. I'll tax the 17 you. K. which is currently being dosed. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I think Prime Minister needs one more vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u131	V.E.G. President. The government situation has a good connection with reality. We've been standing here talking to the National Association of Old Citizens and Iceland's Development of Clerical Corrections and Trendy Developments in agreement with other community groups. Today, the ASI centre, the largest pay force in Iceland, is deplored by the government's emphasis on the decline in hunting costs and the decrease in taxes of high income workers and support for underpayers. The governor of the Land Hospital has sent out a distress call, and nothing has come back but rudeness. V.E.G. The prime minister must recognize that his policy leads to more inequities, even though he might want to make him feel that he is in another way. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u132	A respectable president. It is interesting to hear representatives of the government appear here, exhilarating, and trying to assert that they are being faced with older people and microorganisms in a similar way. The facts speak differently. V.E.G. A financial minister said this week that it was his own goal to make sure that pensioners don't get the same as low-payers. That is what he said very clearly. The Minister's own report with the budget bill says that the goal in the coming years is that the proportion of donations in the state population is reduced. The yields of the combined consumption to the pension pay are decreasing. Men can carry on their breasts and present false facts, as these fine gentlemen do both. [[Up front.]] The fact is, however, that for eight months this year and eight months next year, pensioners will be carrying a sharp share compared to low - incomeers. [[The president calls.]] That is the decision of this administrative point and the determination of the two leading men.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u133	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke of an increased equation under that government. The final OECD measurements are from 2013. They are based on the 2013 statistics and the last figures the Habitat has from the previous part of 2014. So these figures are based on the results of the left control. I'm concerned that the government's actions, including... showing up in the budget bill will lead to more inequities. V.E.G. Economic and economic ministers speak of elderly and poorer people being the same as the rest of this society, and they are even better understood. Elderly people and disability increased by 3% on January 1, 2015. The lowest salary in VR and the Flea Coalition increased by 10.9% from May 1, 2015. Can it be said, then, that these groups are equal? On May 1, 2016, they will increase by 5.9% and are not expected to receive the same remunerations for the elderly. [[The president calls.]] People are being fooled with the wrong numbers here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u134	V.E.G. President. An Austrian poet Ingeborg Bachmann once said that history was a good teacher, the least of which are few students. It's kind of surprising to listen to this conversation as if nothing happened in Iceland in recent years. The collapse is forgotten. The course that was followed and pushed us off the edge is also forgotten, and then we hear statements that are unmistakably true. The vice president of the financier decided earlier that during the last terms, the majority of the interest in welfare was cut down to the inside of society. [[The point is, it's true.]] This is wrong. The majority of these were cut off to investments, e.g. for transportation, which was cut down half. This is a fact. It was cut down in proportion to the welfare of the community. [[The president calls.]] That's the fact and the highest. A minister of finance who is shocked by the fact that people in the blues are here for days arguing about the division of values, what does he think is politics? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What is involved in this discussion? What is involved in the vote that we soon make? [[The president calls.]] The division of values, whether it is righteous or unrighteous. [[The president calls.]] In this bill, there is an unjust division.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u135	A respectable president. In view of Kristján Möller's words, I would like to read a letter that received a welfare committee in November 2011: ▪ On January 1, 2009, pension payments should have increased by 19.9%, but only a small part of the pensioners experienced an increase; others received 9.6%. On July 1, 2009, legislation was introduced into increasing declines due to income and pension payments began to impair basic pensions for the first time in history. On January 1, 2010, improvements were frozen but should have increased by 10%. Still, on January 1, 2011, an additional 7% of the improvements should have been raised, although they were frozen in the second year in a row, with one exception that the improved group was increased by 2.5%. In June 2011, improvements were increased by 8.1% according to ASI and SA agreement. This increase did not make up for the above impairments. By means of budget 2012, the plan again is not to keep up with the improvement as measured by Article 69. pricing of social security by increasing benefits only by 3.5%.◯ This is the letter of the European Commission for welfare committee 28 November 2011.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u136	A respectable president. In the administrative part of the world, we have been criticized for reviewing what happened during the last terms. Nevertheless, I plan to review the dramatic cuts to be performed in 2012, including 303/40% cut-offs in health institutions in the country. I would have felt there was something missing in the discussion now all the money that goes into the construction of the country. That's good. There's only been mention of airports and harbors. This too is positive. There are positive factors. The thing that hurts most is that people don't look at the Economics numbers that say all the whites in Iceland were never more than that. There is good news, and there is something that all members of Congress should agree to celebrate in the IIlis deliverer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u137	A respectable president. I was not at a council during the last term, and I have no work to boast about it from that time, nor to be ashamed of it. I would like to point to a certain fact that is 120 billion dollars. A limp tends to make a difference when it comes to financial expenses. The following year, that limp went down to 90 billion and down to 60 billion the following year and then down to 30 billion. A year after that, in 2013, when the former government ended and the present government began, he went down to power zero. As far as I'm concerned, the current highest. Governments to thank the last government for being able to take something back and start doing something intelligently with the budget. [["Icezave them... "]] It was not possible during the last terms, as the government knows, this is a fact; 120 billion in minus are important, a respectable president. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] And men act like idiots, with all due respect, when they pretend not to understand. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u138	The president asks why. Senators guard their choice of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u139	A respectable president. It is quite remarkable to witness this vote in which figures show that there has never been more equal in this world than ever before. [[Up front.]] This is simply a false case when members of the council claim to be different. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] Now, let's just go back in time, because those of the head members of the former government party who were going to commit taxpayers to the future with the Icesaves. They were so heavy that for a time, they seemed to be a sensitive land hospital every year. If the first government had reached that goal, then where would we be? [["Woah!]] Where would we be then? Then we would not be in the building process established by the present government. We'd be somewhere else. [[Up front.]] This is how I feel about the loss of very injured individuals. [["Icezave."]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u140	Who's paying Icesave?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u141	The time of the rebellion of Icelandic society is up, and this is a cause for joy. [[Foreground in Twilight...]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u142	The president now asks for sound, both during speeches. The senators stand and follow, so the president can at least introduce delegates who want to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u143	A respectable president. I resent the way they talk about a former government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u144	Good for you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u145	You know why? Because I was 18 at the fall of 2008. I had never chosen. It was not the government to teach what happened. No, it was the reign of Davíð's Oddsson Oddd. [[The point is, it has its opinion.]] I think the discussion, which has been here today and the last few days about how wealth is mixed, the core of being in politics. This is why we have something other than dictatorship. Sometimes I think we've got a little dictatorship. That's what it looks like, a respectable president and the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u146	Hear, hear!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u147	A respectable president. Part of the legal case that Iceland was blessed with was accomplished by government efforts during the last term. [[Up front.]] It is impossible to pretend that the advance party somehow had its sword and understood that battle. [[Up front.]] It was in part lucky, and in part, it was the result of the circumstances that were here and in part, as shown in the court, the efforts of the previous government that enabled us to win that case. Now I'm going to repeat: everyone here at Congress knows that less than 120 billion are important. Everyone knows 50 is bigger than 25. It's not complicated. When people come in a pit and begin to compare what the previous government should have done under these circumstances, it is not credible to my perspective. I'd like to pray. According to fact, this is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u148	A respectable president. We can debate whether we will do enough and whether these improvements will be high enough as early as January, but we can't debate that the lowest remuneration will be $1.900. greater than the lowest salary rate -1.900 k. above one who works full - time and has nothing else. [[The point is, doesn't it really need...?]] I'll take it as a matter of fact, we'll raise the lowest wage, but I don't want to agree that we'll raise the benefits for the lowest wage. [[To who?]] If so, we are not exactly giving the right message to those who are still working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u149	...to become a cripple.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u151	It's hard to get a sound while President tries to introduce himself. senators who are going to give a speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u152	V.E.G. President. I'm going to hope that the people in the hall have thrown at each other too when I give a speech. I'm going back to this talk chair to say that I wasn't at a council during the last term. I'm about to vote below, as this is now about the vote, about what is said in this financial bill, to tell me my opinion of it, and to cross every team, where are you putting money in and listening to whether people feel too small. The final comments in this discourse have certainly not been about this vote. I hope we can now sit in our seats and return to the vote on the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u153	A respectable president. I'm going to say the word. The last speaker. I think people should look to what they're doing in these laws. These laws make a decision to leave older citizens and disability behind. The decision is to provide just less than 200 of these groups. K. net to bring forward your life. That's a decision they're making here. These groups are no better by boasting, as we have heard from the board of directors. Why not explain clearly to these people why the government does not trust to improve the terms of these groups at the same time when it is decided to reduce hunting costs, dispose of electricity taxes, and money taxes? It would be a speech, from the man she would bring, worth listening to, not the attitude of the people who have been here. You owe these sources an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u154	V.E.G. President. I just want to put it this way, for those who listen to this discussion, that at this time of the year, the government is raising a contribution to social security by 9.7%, about 14.2 billion. In that number, there are 3.9 billion, which are reverseive. It is vital that we keep on doing the same. This is not to stop but to continue in the same course. Like a lot of snoozes. The government's been talking about over the last few days... we're in the process of letting the social security benefits follow the minimum... and there's not going to be anything left to do with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u155	V.E.G. President. We're here about to vote for whether it's in order to raise the benefits of a pensioner in accordance with the rise that other groups have received this year. Sounds like the highest. The government does not trust it, and I am concerned that it is simply because it is part of political policy, which was included in the debate. paritaprevir Páll, the son of Pálsson, has also been spoken in the highest language. Secretary of finance, that the community order should be so that the poor and the other pensioners are always at a lower level than the lowest income groups, and so it should be according to political decision. I feel that this is a sign of poor welfare. I will surely do my part to fight that it will be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u156	V.E.G. President. I looked forward to sharing in this vote, but it's been changed because it never happened, so we didn't have a bit of fun with the play that's been going on this past hour. I'd kind of like to suggest to those who were in charge over the last term and who are still here in the Senate Hall and those who are in charge now and who were once in a position to rent a hall in town, and to settle these cases once and for all time, and to spare us the pussy contests that take place all the time here. We can debate the budget and whether it's good or bad. I don't think it's so good, and maybe especially because we're not paying retrospective dressbacks for disability and the elderly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u157	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u158	That's what this is about. No, no, no. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. That's not true. It says in the Treaty that the community is a cooperative work where everyone is holding hands to create a good society. We're not paying that pay back like everyone else gets. That's what it's all about. You don't want to, and it's just your business. [[Up front.]] Let's go vote on these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u159	A respectable president. It is worth considering that not long ago, in the hall, we agreed here on a government budget that suggested what the expansion of the state would be in the future. It seems that we are going beyond the limits set there, where the increase of the State's spending costs to the classes that the State will meet, and particularly, of course, increase in wages and benefits are beyond what was expected. Therefore, it is not fair to come here and say that the government represents some sort of quest for remuneration. [[Up front.]] That's not a fair statement. It is an old story and a new way of handling such things in society, but things need to be called their own names. [[The president calls.]] You might say, and people can believe that more than that is to be raised, I would point to the fact that there is a government budget and that we are past it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u160	Mr. President. We're here to vote on your income on a four-point bill. A million. K. which the smaller part suggests due to an improvement in tax control. The taxpayer has established a budget and reviewed his surveillance role and, in theory, many billion tax frauds can be expected. Theoretically, they're over 80. But we are just assuming that we are reaching 4 billion by improved surveillance, which we put on the pay line to 58 million. K. So this is a very moderate estimate of 4 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u161	A respectable president. So you're just talking about the a-parties in these suggestions, I think it's a reason to point out that the constant and regular news is that a very large international company is not paying at all the taxes they should do in Iceland and using them for all kinds of accounting effects to export profits from the country. So this is a good opportunity to make and make more money. So, in general, I would like to say all these proposals for a income gain that I think the government has been very careless on the income side, and I feel that it has given way too much of obvious revenues, as illustrated by foreign tourists. We're suggesting a continuing energy tax, which I think is a very welcome matter, and we've been completely consistent with ourselves in pointing out that more money can be made as expected from hunting costs. It is a bouldering rise in the fishing road, and even if it had to be adjusted to make the price more righteous, the same amounts of income could be maintained. These are good suggestions, and I encourage the government to be more disciplined on the income side in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u162	A respectable president. There's nothing to relax on the IRS, and it's been added over the past few years, i.e. self-monitoring. But it's like a political proposal that can become the same as a estimate of 4 Thous. A million. K. without having anything to do with it but knowing that there's tax fraud out there is no guarantee. I was hoping this would be released, and you've seen it regularly through the history of the left categories when it's difficult to make ends meet in the spending scheme that it's played out. But this game is clearly not over. But this is not a responsible, respectable president, and there is nothing more to do than to say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u163	A respectable president. Here's an increase in income based on an improvement in tax control. I'd like to say that because of a word. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór's Þórðarson godship that there is no particular demand for the guidance of the Independence Party on responsible financial administration or responsible extramarital resources. They have not given much opportunity, and there are, in fact, eight volumes on how the Independence Party has benefited from managing the Kingdom Fund. So I think that's why. A senator should now only allow the government's opposition to recommend his proposals without a single bump out of that glasshouse. [[Up front.]] In terms of IRS, data is available on the property of wealthy who are hidden abroad. We also know that there could be an even more powerful effort to eliminate a black job as well as what has been mentioned here, i.e. Information from the head of the state tax frauds and their analysis, that it is 60,480 billion. [[The president calls.]] So this is a very dangerous plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u164	A respectable president. At this time of the year, unchanged special electricity tax paid by the industry is now being released. We suggest that it be extended and thus obtained additional money for the money of the government. It is very interesting to see the priorities of the government when it comes to taxing jobs. She puts taxes on the benefits of small companies and knowledge companies by paying taxes in pay but reduces the taxes on the resources of the big business where the electricity tax is and she reduces the fishing fees and does not cater to tourists'payment in order to build up credits in the community but, in general, accepts tax and subsidies in that way. So the government's tax policy when it comes to professional matters is extremely unfair. It would be reasonable to continue this tax and completely logical in view of the need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u165	Mr. President. Here again it is proved that, of course, when people say "time tax, " permanent taxes are not meant. At the time, this tax was introduced as a temporary tax, but of course, it did not mean anything. It's come back and forth. The same applies to other taxes that the left administration said should be temporary. Here is a row of taxes, which, of course, is intended to finance expenses. [[Up front.]] This is part of the management budget. Here's the beat for a small enough group that's unpopular enough for society to raise its taxes a little bit. The factory, the industry, it looks like it's outlets, and then it's the banks. Of course, these are not just income schedules because they are trying to make money. It's just a cover. It is covering up what really is the point of the proposal, that all this new expenditure is being proposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u166	Mr. President. It is of particular concern that the government has gone forward to weaken the financial institutions of the State. This is of particular concern when we consider the economic conditions and the expansion of the above mentioned above, there have been repeated tax declines. Completely independent of ideological views, the caution given by economists should be listened to. The proposals of the smaller part, the one involved in a special energy tax and other proposals in these areas, are to strengthen the support of the social and shared consumption so that economic issues can rest on a more solid foundation rather than go to the leading existing government, which seems to be rather guided by ideologies rather than necessarily by reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u167	President. I think the banks we're suggesting to bring more taxes are far broader than the beds of the elderly and desperate. [[Exploited less taxes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u168	Mr. President. The budget bill expects interest from the Lands Bank to be equal to 7 billion. In 2014's budgets, the profits made by the Bank of Lands were just 21 billion, and in the budget bill we were working with at dawns it's worth less than 26 billion. It is therefore gently estimated that the monthly budget will be 15 billion. In fact, we have information that it will likely be closer to 30 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u169	Mr. President. As I told you before, we need to worry about the underlying budget. That is well illustrated in the Bible - based direction and view, pp. 61 and 62, that if there are no other forces, the income of the year reached 34.6% of the land's production. It is explained, among other things, by the profit of the Land Bank, where payment rates were unusually high and special interest due to the decrease in the funds of the Federal Bank, and the bank tax was added. When these strains disappear, there will be little left. There's not going to be enough tax for us to run a decent welfare system and to consume it in the way it should be. Therefore, we have criticized it, saying that it is not time to fall from various tax returns, which were during the last term, despite the temporary tax returns. That is a decision that varies, as does so many others. [[The president calls.]] To understand this publication, we need only to read it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u170	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite realize what's going on. managers who talk about the lack of taxpayers and who are always doing something wrong with less fortunate ones. At the same time, they criticize the highest. The government specifically placed a bank tax on financial companies. I can't quite figure out what they're talking about. It is something that the government did and is absolutely correct, that special taxes were placed on financial institutions and stocks. I think that was very sensible. Here, however, it is so that people are completely aware of it. Government opposition has been talking about the importance of the Bank Office. I'm not going to say for long and long during the council. It's the rule of living by the Bank Office when we consider interest, but why. Government opposition does not want to do so. Of course, now it does not matter; it does come in anyway. It's not a new income, it's just another one of the foam revenues at the bank. she does not trust to finance her spending budgets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u171	A respectable president. It's all on the same book. Sea streets have never paid as much money to the community, including the state, as they are now. However, if men had gone on the way of the last government and were still raising a plan on the seabed, according to the plan that the last government had introduced, it is clear that at least Tens, possibly hundreds, small and medium - sized fishing companies would have run out. There would have been an even greater convergence in this article, and the entire settlement would have been in serious trouble. What would have been the effect on the state funds, the respectable president, not to mention all the settlements that would have made such a mistake? The impact on government funds would have been that his income had been reduced, and his expenses had increased, but by a more reasonable course and by means of a variety of means of payment, he has managed to increase the income of the entire estate and the community of all the marine roads so that they have never been greater. At times, and frequently, a respectable president pays to think things through, to calculate the whole thing, and then to reach the best conclusion. [[Up front.]] This is not in the proposals of the government. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u172	The president would like to remind us, because we have a history of explaining a number of votes, that the rule is that those who say "sound" and want to account for their votes after the discussion is started under that program are simply too late. They cannot be given the word. It's according to Congress, like what you're doing. Councilmen know, and it's always a good thing to remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u173	A respectable president. It's nice to see that our proposal to raise income produces such fear to the highest degree. Secretary of the budget and the highest. To undermine their credibility, the prime minister is sent on the scene. What remains, when it comes to the stress of hunting costs, are simple facts. The oldest men in the factory do not remember as well as they do now. At the same time, fishing costs have dropped to 5 billion a year. For the reduction of oil prices alone, this year it is estimated at 10 billion. The key is to provide a fair amount of money in the national sector, which can be accessed to common resources. That is the case with a righteous revenue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u174	Mr. President. The smaller portion suggests an increase of $3 billion. It's amazing how much it works. The prime minister always hides behind the reduction of fishing costs as a result of small and medium-sized productions, being so pathetic that half of that was enough. What's a poor person's got to do with who? The big thing in the country. There has been no targeted effort to meet small and medium - sized structures. This is a reduction in the large productions that are turning tens of billions into profits and paying for another tens of billions of dollars in profit. They can pay a whole lot higher hunting fees, this big construction company that's purring gold. A reduction in oil prices yields valuable resources, as observed, in the study of these parties. But there is the focus of this government. You must not interfere with the big thing in the country because they have the voter's plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u175	A respectable president. 3 billion bucks. increase in hunting costs is moderate. It matters how this price is divided, who is paying what, the big ones, or the small ones. But it's true that when these types of materials themselves can go to the Greenland Sea and want to pay 150 bucks. for a pound of mackerel, but the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnugon decides to charge ten cents. ... somethingis wrong. In that case, the correct dollar number, the correct price, is not being placed on the resource. This is what we need to pay attention to. In the bright future, we feel that since politicians and officials will always be able to figure out what the right price is, we need marketing solutions to set this price for the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u176	A respectable president. There is much to say about the steps taken in income that are presented here. Of this team, I'd like to say that it's surprising that there's not a much higher number there. In the summer of 2012, we participated in this discussion on fishing costs, and then we were told that in the course of this period, it would be appropriate to take 20 billion. But why doesn't it go to 20 billion? Or 25? This range of income is always spoken of as if it can be taken off as much as you like. Why is such a modest increase in government income possible if you want to accept what you want? That's kind of the big news. You don't have to take 20, as previously planned, you just need to take 3. They are naturally taken care of. All these suggestions are complete, so first the spending team was reviewed and something was tried to slip into them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u177	A respectable president. It cannot be listened repeatedly to this fact that the cost of fishing cannot be added to the production, but it is at the maximum historically high economic growth by 70-80% billion dollars. The capitalization and pay for its own clean profit, totaling 1,3,14 billion. Of course, the nation's strongest means of living must go along with others so that the land can be built up with dire living conditions. It is a scandal that this government does not trust to place reasonable, natural spells on this flourishing and lucrative business. In fact, the proposal we have here for the hunt is a moderate estimate, and of course I vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u178	V.E.G. President. The government has already secured 60 million. K. ... fortheU.S.S.S.S.S.R. A body that has a service of ten managers, over 200 staff, costing 150 million. K. In a year, she's no good. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u179	V.E.G. President. I want to protect the State Radio... and I don't understand the evil will of this institution. I think he's immoral. The decision currently made will likely result in the beginning of the next week or during the next few days of the week on the topic of the Kingdom News and the gathering of all activities. I'm gonna pray. Councilmen to keep this in mind at this vote. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u180	A respectable president. The recent losses in the field of the State Radio Administration have succeeded in the cross - political community of representatives of all categories for support of the State Radio and its new administration, and this solidarity has been brought to the fore. Secretary of education that radio fees will not be dropped any further. There's gonna be a chance for the government to stand up with its representatives in the government administration of the State Radio and with the highest authority. Secretary of education. It is impossible to recognize the seeming hostility that exists toward the Kingdom News in many parts of the government, but it is very important that we protect this important culture organization. I quote a beautiful interview the other day with the Matthías Johannessenur of the Morning newspaper, who described the importance of the Kingdom News for an Icelandic nation in the past, present, and future. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u181	President. Just like it said in a case. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son is that if we drop the radio fee, the radio will be unnecessaryly charged to cancel the number of employees at RUS, the agency will be greatly ill, and we should not forget that a large body of senators and advisers have repeatedly been able not to think about the news broadcast of the MRV. You must ask, "Is this cut left in the community? No one - I haven't heard a single person call out for a drop in the radio charge? " There is no need for this reduction, and this is in a crying conflict with an independent party's policy, for example, that RUS leaves a commercial market. Both are not released and held, the highest. Secretary of finance. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u182	Mr. President. I support a minister who has suggested the idea of keeping the radio fee unchanged and hoping in itself that he will support the bill, because that may match his relocation up to now. I'm very worried about the scattered settlements, if The State Radio isn't going to be like it ever was, i.e. to build up. The current radio manager's policy is to build up on the region. He wants to aim for increased domestic child material, and I'll draw attention to the fact that all musicians whom he wants to have a chance at RUS that they don't get anywhere else or that they haven't had so far. Many have said that they have started their career, natural unknown, but have been given an opportunity to give them the opportunity. I don't believe that the government and its members are not going to be on state television. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u183	A respectable president. The senator says yes. I'm really worried that there's no place inside the state radio. It is of great importance that we have this institution, an independent news agency, or at least a news agency that has established its ownership. It's in the nation. I just think it's absolutely fundamental in a democracy that we're protecting the reporting, documenting and criticism of all public television stations, such as in the North countries. She needs to go past RUSB, and of course she has to think that there are some strange motives behind her when she is being reinvented and reduced by financial contributions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u184	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of finance called our second proposal in a less moderate way. That's right. Our suggestions are moderate. We hope to have it approved by the members of the administrative committee. It's a moderate suggestion, very moderate suggestion. She's going to assume that there's a radio bill going to remain unchanged, it's not going to drop. I agree with what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter, who described earlier well that she had not realized that anyone was asking for a decrease in radio charge. I think there is a great deal of agreement among the people about having national radios. The government radio has been successful in its recent business with the new executives, but now it is simply a cross section, and they or those of us who want to hollow the national radio inside, undermine its role as the cornerstone of Icelandic culture and democracies, just saying clearly that they are heading there. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to post a vision of what's going to happen to the head of the board. If this proposal is to be dropped, it is time to cross. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u185	A respectable president. I, of course, vote with it. I don't think in any way acceptable or normal is how politicians in Iceland allow themselves to talk about the Kingdom News, how they allow themselves to talk about the unappreciative reporting. I don't like it, I think it's a scandal, and I think that's one of the reasons why people in some way accept it is that they've become accustomed to other bad news, and even more tragic news. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u186	A respectable president. The VOLV case exposes the crisis of the Allied Congress and the politics and the lack of leadership. People we've chosen for the State Radio administration have held together on their issues, but when the issues come from them and down here into this hall, they'll split up, they'll be torn apart and torn down. It will not be written in the accounts of any other person than the heads of the governments, who do not have the authority to support their own men and ensure unity in this room the same way that the government of the Kingdom News has done. Of course I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u187	A respectable president. I'll say no in this vote. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Foreground on: No.]] - That's what I said. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] A respectable president. There's a fact that I've submitted a bill to the government where it's assumed that we're not going to follow the reduction we decided here a while ago. That's why I've reasoned, including. The fact that cost increases have been observed in both the pay and the distribution systems that make this decision a correct decision to reconsider. I haven't given away and will work on moving this matter forward, so I will say no in my vote. I agree with the words here given that it is important to look to the future as far as Kingdom Hall is concerned, what its role should be, and how it will be handled best. There are many changes that require us to review various aspects of the Kingdom News business. [[The president calls.]] Let us also look at the fact that the State Radio is not one thing in the media market. [[The president calls.]] There are other media in this country, many of whom have faced the reality of resigning employees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u188	Mr. President. I'm very sad that the public radio is being evicted by the budget year after year. If we try to learn from other nations that all run public radios and when we look to our neighboring nations in Europe, this is exactly not the way to do things. I find it so sad that parapolitic agreements have not been made for policy development and a vision for the State Radio, a reconciliation I considered to be the highest. The Minister of Education is working on it that when he stepped in here this spring and promised that there would be a bill where the decrease in the radio charge, which the current government approved for his first budget here in 2013, would be called back. I think it's sad to see that it's the highest. The minister does not have the support of his party and his colleagues. I feel that it shows a very sad attitude toward the public radio, our largest cultural organization. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We should do much better. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u189	Mr. President. At such a vote, I'm glad it's only a year and a half before the election. I just have to say, there's so much being ruined. It seems to be the meaning of this administrative part of the business of breaking down the wood of The Kingdom Radio, which has followed us since 1930 so we can't see a whip. That's why we're putting up a government stand to get the 303 billion Kingdom News. K. to strengthen the business. If the highest. A minister of education does not claim to keep the average radio charge in view of the myths and cuts of this institution, which is a democratic site, a cultural site, and has also united this nation over the years. It's just a shame that you should listen to what you should listen to in this room. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Yeah, you can't be offered to be gigning in this room, under influence. [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground on:]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[What?]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u190	Mr. President. This proposal goes out of the way of keeping the radio bill unchanged. It goes on with the fact that we're not going to reduce the price next year. However, it will, as it reads, mean that the State Radio has to cut down simply because salary has gone up in 2015. It is not enough for the administrative part to feel that it requires further cuts, but it also calls for a vision of the future. The Management Board and the Government Guide has spent all their time in short-term solutions to running the Agency from day to day. In some meetings, they have come to the branch office to review the operation. This is obvious, and everyone sees that it is being forced forward by means of money change. It'll probably bite the most on the land. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u191	A respectable president. The government radio is the most important cultural institution in the country and its media, with a tremendously important democratic role. This is the only public radio, the only public media we have in this country. This is the media we've been waking up to in the morning and falling asleep at night for 85 years. He has been a very important part of our lives, molded by our senses and has been with us in good times and bad. We are to support this important organization, support it, and the democratic role it plays. Of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u192	A respectable president. It is Icelandic artists who, along with the English language, have carried this nation's propaganda throughout the entire inhabited earth. The national radio is one of the key institutions for both Icelandic culture and language. The national radio is an adolescent center of Icelandic culture. It is also the center of Icelandic culture, especially when it comes to Icelandic music. Not standing behind the Government Radio and not making an attempt, as this is done, in order to prevent dramatic changes or deductions on that activity is simply tragic, if not entirely criminal. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u193	A respectable president. As soon as I'm aware of my vote, I'll make a strong comment to the President's conference board for an explanation. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. A respectable president. The government radio has the privilege of playing budgets nearly 3.5 billion, apart from advertising income. It's where I'm working that I'm holding about 220◯230 people. If the government radio is so close to a fall in radio charge of 1,400 bucks. By means of the Kingdom News with its roots, it is already a very bad thing to do. [[The point is, it is.]] I've been talking about the distribution system that was bought that's responsible for the government of the state radio. I don't think that the insane contract that was then made up of 4 billion should be treated with the public tax. This deal was not meant to be made. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u194	A respectable president. By permission of the president, I want to quote a report on the island in August 2013. Asked if she would take this trick further, Vigdís Hauksdóttir replied: I'm naturally part of this economy group. Vigdís added that there was a lot of money, and it would be her view that too much money goes into the business of RUS. When asked if the SpV news room was too left, Vigdís said: ▪ Yes, everyone who wants to see. The senator added that the Agency was at least too much of a palace under the European Union. Of course, this is only the threats put out there. [[Up front.]] There's nothing more complicated than that. That's the way it is. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u195	President. Here, giving the Senate a truly peculiar opportunity for a change in a government proposal to take a position on a bill that the Minister of Education does not come out of the government. Now it is true that there are not any members of the board who support the bill locked up in the government and neither is the Minister himself. Here is a historical milestone in this discussion, when the minister does not even have his own support. He's had the language for months and loss of time that it's important not to be dropped by the radio, but now he's taking on the faith of the wicked government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoll, is more than his own conviction about the importance of being on TV. These are amazing times, I must say, a respectable president. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u196	A respectable president. We're going to vote on the amount of insurance. Here's a income stock that I feel is an absolute justice issue to decline. He had to go up in the wake of the collapse because of a very high unemployment rate in order to cope with unemployment. Since then, unemployment has declined substantially, but the cost remains so high. The obvious question is, What will we do next when unemployment is growing if we are going to keep our insurance bill so high? Do we, then, need to increase it even further? Of course, insurance costs are supposed to flunk along the way in the workplace. There has also been an extension of a maternity vacation, thus reducing the share of the insurance bill. Yet, the insurance rate did not decline. This price is being pinched all the time, and the government is not doing the work to which the price is due. It's a genetic product carried out in a income raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u197	A respectable president. It's totally incomprehensible to me that the government hasn't taken the opportunity to cut down the insurance fee. Business insurance budgets are down. Still, if you don't mind me saying it, the insurance will only lower something like that. The breeding orlofs funds don't raise. This is totally incomprehensible. The insurance bill is the cost of building up a successful and powerful economy so that we do not need to rely on only a few material support. I'm totally shocked, and I'm shocked that the government doesn't use the opportunity to reduce this price. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u198	Mr. President. The insurance bill is pay tax. When unemployment declines, the insurance fees are normal. There have been a lot of discussions about the insurance fee, and there has also been a discussion on the work of collective agreements. Job drivers have emphasized the reduction in insurance. A review of collective agreements in February can have a significant impact on the extension of collective agreements if the insurance bill does not decline. The government has dropped it very little. The insurance fee also contains a stocking orcage fund, as mentioned, which has been compromised by this government. This reduces the ability of companies to recruit people if the insurance bill is held that high. It's just really bad. It also reduces the capacity of an enterprise to pay off the raises currently. [[The president calls.]] The labour market may be upset next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u199	Mr. President. The insurance costs are down in these budgets. It reduces 0.14% according to previously approved legislation. However, this does not reduce as much as we expected in the financial programme because it was negotiated with the labour market partners that we were more likely to have a decrease in income tax. On the other hand, I'm just thinking that today we're talking about the ideas of a big cut-off, but the same people also talk about adding up the insurance bill. In fact, the insurance bill is the income market we have to pay for the social security system. Therefore, I feel that these two things do not work out very well during the discussion. In the long run, my vision is that we should put further reductions in the insurance fee and look forward to the duration of the collective agreements that have just arrived to reduce the price. But the unemployment issues have dropped. [[The president calls.]] It also comes out of the birthed oresfsfs that, if you think, and I think we're going to aim to increase in rights to birth holiday will have to raise that thing again. Otherwise, it won't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u200	Mr. President. This is a vote for the contributions from the University of Iceland to the University of Iceland. If the ideas that have been raised in Iceland and that there will no longer be an Icelandic teacher left to be there for a long time, the key is that the lottery is a source of funds to begin its operation. It's ready for the money for this quest that I still haven't heard from anyone. The senator of the Management Board speaks against it. In fact, I've seen a synopsis proposal from the highest level. The prime minister, who was asked to implement the need for this operation, thereby building the Icelandic textbook for research and teaching in Icelandic, except for, of course, our manuscripts of UNESCO, which are on the world list. But the government's not going to do anything about it. The University of Iceland is not to be authorized. Suggestion at the highest. The prime minister who was leaked in the media and appeared on the front of the news magazine of April 1, was only a April, as was so many others from this highest. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u201	A respectable president. I hope I'm in the right place. That's about 75 million. K. - Well, I'll just say it anyway. [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] When it comes to this vote, I want to draw attention to the absurd conditions, or whatever it is that a financial committee promotes, that it affords a competition here by some 100-year-old developer of the then builder of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u202	A respectable president. Here is a vote for the construction team at the General Assembly and the 75 million chosen to be placed in a building to propose a greater degree of legal committee in the spirit of drawings of Samúelsson's Guðjón from his dormitory, 100 - year - old drawings. I think it's a good idea for the majority of the people here at the council to agree with this. It's very demanding. I can't really stand in here for a fool's sake that people really intend to go through this vote and support this great deal. It's totally pathetic. Besides that, the jury and the case themselves have been under the seat of the presiding committee. Sadly, since then this suggested search of the day has not been possible to discuss it at the moment. A prime committee, which is certainly reason enough for man to discuss and to adopt the strange mechanism of action of the greater part of the legal committee in this case, which is owned by a very strange mental world. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u203	A respectable president. There's no reason why. Senators losing their way. That's 75 million. K. to initiate a specific road trip. The matter is indeed a matter of custody. The Committee to Presidency and no one is designing one or no house here with this 75 billion. K. As far as I know, it's also bound to the law that, if this becomes, we'll have to offer both design and I won't talk about the building of the house. I don't think people should read any more of this than that. [[Up front.]] - Hv. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir is in distress, as was so often the case in the past. Hv. That's what a senator needs to do with himself. But, of course, I'm saying yes to this. The case is premeditated. Presidency committee. I trusted her to deal well with these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u204	A respectable president. That's very interesting. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur nature of Þór Þórðarson says that their majority opinion is really wrong. It says right here, by permission of the President: To be prepared, take into account the plans for building in the General Assembly of 1918. the current plans of former government builder Samúelsson's God - made Guðjón and projections for a memorial event related to the next century's Commonwealth anniversary of Iceland. I'm very interested in what's happened. A senator said. I also need to draw attention to the fact that this is a gross way for the Author of Guðjón's son Samuel's son, Samúelsson, to put it in a modern context. [[Up front.]] That is, in fact, a violation of writers' law. If the Council wants to continue to do so, please. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u205	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir And Guðlaugur specifically told Þórðarson for his speech here. It was very important because it emphasized that it is about some kind of salvation for another bullshit idea. Prime Minister, to put her somewhere on paper, and why. Congress officials are willing to vote with their nonsense, but in reality this doesn't mean anything. In fact, it has been observed here that a prime committee in the discussion was viewed as having no intention of handling these texts. That's where it's at, then. paritaprevir Gulliful Þór Þórðarson has confirmed his understanding that this is just presented as spiritual support for the bullshit idea of the highest degree. Prime Minister. Sadly, this is not the first time, but it stands there and really is the greater part to shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u206	President. Should it be understood that the details of the report on the part are of no significance? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] That's a lot of news to me. But I just found out that the salvation Army's home is about to go public. I suggest this 75 million. K. it will be used at first. That would be a lot more practitioner, instead of trying to build a house out of 1918 drawings. I feel very serious, and I think the senators of the greater part should bear in mind that here is a paper and explained what money is for those on this budget, and then it just doesn't mean anything, there was nothing to say. At least I hope so. They are ignored by a prime committee on the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u207	President. One of the most important things in the country is the executive of the General Assembly. He includes ensuring the right of the citizens to the governments of the country, and he's supposed to make sure that government practices are careful and equal in the administration. Last year, the importance of an agent's ability to engage in initiative keeping was illustrated by what is important. That's why we're here suggesting 15 million. K. in that office with special emphasis on the ability of an agent to perform a role as he did last year. We propose it, so we vote with this law. I want to see at the same time that we'll vote against the decline as a matter of course. The budget suggests that this office is on the job, and it is the next part of the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u208	V.E.G. President. I'd be very sorry if this proposal were dropped. It is in accordance with the opinion of a representative of the Council Board and Commission that this was for the benefit and that the office of an agent could perform so-called initiatives, as it were. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir made an explanation. In the event that this proposal is made, I allow it to be directed to the budget board to review this case in due course and to vote on the 3rd district.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u209	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker. I call attention to the increase in complaint made by an agent from 300 to 500, that is about 40%. It is unnatural for us to be cutting down from such an institution where the support given by an agent is very important to the administration. It's a service to the civilians we're taking care of. This is the person the nation trusts when it comes to independent opinions. He has said that he needs another 15 million in order to perform the initiative, as we have seen here. The Committee's Committee of Directors and Follow-up Committee lists specific projects that I believe a greater part of the United States will need to know before deciding to cut down, as the next section will show.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u210	President. It is imperative that the U.S. Marshal of the Council be able to move forward and put more energy into the initiative investigation. If there is no additional budget for the General agent so that he can pursue the initiative, the office is greatly weakened. It has been shown that it is urgent that the Trustee of the Generals to perform this vital part of the work of the office. I want to challenge every senator. I'm sure there's some way we can take a closer look between the 2nd and 3rd. I'd like to challenge the U.S. Senate to make a very careful examination of this in the budget before we settle the ultimate budget here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u211	A respectable president. I think it was clear in recent years how important the role of the U.S. Marshal is for a democracies community. I would like to challenge the U.S. Senate to reconsider this decision between the 2nd and 3rd. This is made clear in the opinion of a man. The management and monitoring committee on the 2014 Commission report of the Generals' agent that an agent is lacking funding in order to conduct initiative studies. Among other things, it takes at least 15 million to give this class, i.e. Take-off studies, special attention. I think we're in Congress, and we're gonna be fine. In order to carry out his assignment, a congregation council officer should give him the financial stability needed to carry out his assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u212	A respectable president. I suppose that if the relationship between the great General and the Supreme Court... A government would be in line with what one would expect in a democratic community, where the General Assembly would be remembered. Councilmen vote with this proposal and object to a suggestion to cut down from the emissary of the Generals. An agent of the Generals is our agent. This is an institution directly under the Council. It's a question of whether or not we take our role as a member of the management board with the government seriously. I realize that now the majority of the council are members of the government class. It is unfortunate for this precisely. We need to revise this relationship. I got it. I got it. A body of elders, like others, have taken the lead in reviewing these suggestions between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u213	President. Here's another example of the greatest past title. Prime Minister on recitation... [[...be polite.]] Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is telling me to be polite. I allow myself to be guided by it in this council hall. The master of the State is out - of - date, old office as supreme. The prime minister, in the spirit of this ancient plot of restoration within his Ministry, falls to the point of a new 100 million. I'll put it in here at the highest. Minister if it is not right to restore the office of Minister of Iceland for a reason. It could be clever and in the spirit of what is discussed, such as the Guðjón - given son of Samúelsson and the builder of the State and so forth, that men look to the past with confidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u214	A respectable president. This proposal assumes 70 million. K. a donation to the green economy. During the last term in 2012, a unanimous resolution was adopted at the General Assembly of Congress on that remarkable task. Now, as never before, following the United Nations Climate Conference, we feel that it is only natural to restore this idea that all classes could live on during the last season but that has subsided in the hands of the current government, such as most other progressive professional development ideas and innovations in the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u215	Mr. President. It appears that the core part is making a suggestion to reimburse the Senate arrangement for the green economy, which was adopted by all paid votes during the last term. It surprises me very much after the government introduced its goals to the Paris Climate Conference, the aims that must focus on us creating sustainable development into everything we do, into social development and work structure, that's what the green economy was about, to see what it was all about. This is a suggestion made by members of the board of directors. I hope that doesn't mean that their words in Paris don't follow. That would be serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u216	A respectable president. The need to identify and build up this society as a green economy has never been as evident in the need for action on environmental issues. I was in this committee during the last term, along with other members of the council who held between 50 and 60 meetings, which were about to define the application areas of Iceland when it was time to build a green economy, build a green competitive fund, a green industry, and there were clearly applied instruments in many areas. An extremely good work and a sharp view published in the findings of the Committee, which then came to the Senate resolution that was adopted by all paid votes. That's how I want to win. I know that's what more people want to win. That we're gonna set goals, we're gonna go somewhere, we're gonna put money in it. That's why it surprised me so much that one of the first things the government did was to cancel all of this and put a part of that money into getting a window mail on old buildings. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A complete lack of understanding of this vital task. There's a difference between parties in politics, and he's not the least in this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u217	President. Isn't there any particular basis for all the promises in Paris? We decided to support it and to be among the nations that are going to work to increase no more than one and a half degrees. Is there no basis for that promise? Did we just say that to look good in Paris? I don't understand why it was decided to drop from this pact proposal for the green economy because all classes had members on it. Every senator here at the House of Congress was following that suggestion. At least there was no mold. I find it strange that the only reason we decided is to drop from this policy of green economy is because the proposal was made during the last term. How sad I am to see that the guide we found in Paris is brought to nothing in this vote!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u218	A respectable president. In this case, a smaller proportion of the legal committee contributes to a fourfold contribution to university and research, rather than 25 million. K. up-to-date changes in the majority of objects. This amount is generally considered to support the country's university activities, and we feel that it really needs to be donated and that it has been given for some time. For example, both the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri have for years received more students than they have been paid to tell a story about the need for the university service. In that light, this proposal is offered, and of course I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u219	Mr. President. We're making a significant increase in college and research, which should be an ambitious subject for all of us. I'd like to remind you that when we agreed to start Ald school High School of Iceland, a certain policy-makers followed the idea that we were going to make a targeted raise to the University of Iceland and later to the college of everything so that they would be first comparable to the average OECD countries and then to the average neighboring state. These policies have not been established. I've been waiting two and a half months for an answer from the highest. Prime Minister to this inquiry in the beginning of October, on what policies are being held around the Happy Age Fund. We're making a significant increase in college and research, but I also suggest that the policies we agreed to take place in 2011 are replaced by an unremarkable distribution of funds, without full vision. This, of course, is the key to our future prosperity, and I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u220	A respectable president. I'd like to tell the government for commendation and money that contributions have been raised in the Development Fund and in the Research Fund. So there seems to be a mark of understanding, as the Treaty says, that innovation, education, and research need to be invested. Here is a moderate suggestion, all of which are moderate, absolutely in this spirit. It was agreed to go to a future policy barrier to further research at the university. That's a good idea. It's a good investment. It is amazing to witness how the government has completely drawn its feet to this approval when Iceland's High School Fund was founded and not made up for these policies. Here we are trying to have the initiative, put money on this mission. This is going to pay off, and I think the members of the board know all about it. But they have to vote with their convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u221	A respectable president. Here's a quarter of a million down here. K. at high school to strengthen their business and to enable them to open up to adults 25 years of age and older, into the high school that the government had authorized to exorbitant from the schools, a group of 700 people. This is a group that has either escaped from studies or has not been able to attend high school for several reasons, but they have been able to search through their local service and take a student's test in their home country. This is especially true for women with children in the country. The work market and society need educated people. It is important to give this group the opportunity to get back into the school system instead of dismissing it from there with its resulting discrimination, on the basis of habitats and conditions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u222	President. Here, members of Congress had a unique opportunity to stop participating in discrimination on the basis of who can attend high school. Unfortunately, this government is going to continue to violate human rights, I want to call it, to the people of this country. I find it sad, in general, to make a budget and to make a budget not to be listened. There's been a lot of criticism, not just in the Senate but in the community. I'm sad that we don't listen to any evidence that the discrimination here does not serve any interests. Rather, it will come back to society in one way or another if people are not allowed to pursue their rights for education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u223	A respectable president. There is reason to be deeply concerned about high school. We cannot be known to be in both high school and university degrees under the mean OECD countries when it comes to donations. I want it to be directed to the highest. Education Minister to read a thorough report on the status of high school by the State Accounting Department from last year forward. I think that reading gives me a reason for a minister's more aggressively applying himself and putting more money in high school. He knows well that their situation is very narrow. I don't think it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u224	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion to raise substantial amounts of money for immigrants. The financial contributions in this team have dropped well over half, calculated, from collapse. Today, it has become a major obstacle to immigrants to receive a special education in order to become active and contented members of the Icelandic community. This is a disgrace to us who need to increase the number of Icelanders and welcome those who want to live here. I would like to point out that in other parts of the North countries, such studies are fully paid, but here the importer himself has to pay more and more of the cost, so the suggestion is the first step to correct an important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u225	A respectable president. This box addresses a very important issue involving the improved potential of immigrants to become active participants in Icelandic society, participating in it, and having complete access to it. In fact, culture, art, everyday life, the media, and so forth are all more and less in English. If immigrants are to be valid participants, they need to be effective in speaking English. This is something that is very clear in our neighboring countries. We have not done well enough in this regard, and we need to do better. This proposal is designed to improve the development of Icelandic education for immigrants in order to improve their prospects for active participation in the community. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u226	A respectable president. The Icelandic tongue is under attack and will continue to be struck as the 21st century goes on. If we are to remain in our language and continue to read our own history, as an example, for a long time, we must finance it. We cannot expect Icelandic to survive without effort. It'll cost us money. The question here is, Will we be supporting it by helping with the foreign - language education of foreigners? It is especially important that they have access to our wonderful language if they are going to read our history and if they are going to enter our culture properly, as most of them, if not all would certainly want to do. I'm sorry to see how the vote is going to go, but I can just do it again and again that if we're gonna hold on to this thing, we're gonna have to pay for it. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u227	A respectable president. There may be no need to justify the importance of making it easier for immigrants to live in Icelandic society. It must seem that Icelandic is the key to society. That is why it is very important to be as effective as possible in teaching Icelandic to the foreign people who want to come and settle down and become active members of society. In recent years, we have not been very successful in this regard, as we have seen here. This money's been missing. If we are to be able to accomplish this in order to do some good, we need to step on a multitask. The proposal assumes there's an increase of 50 million. K. which is a significant improvement. As the last speaker said, it is sad to see how this vote is taking place. But I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u228	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here to celebrate our vote on Number 26 and 27. Especially am I glad that there is an increase in funding in education in East, South, South, and Southnes. That's about 43 million. K. - An extra. It is a very valuable work that is being done in these places for communities and to strengthen them, where there is a wide range of studies for people of all ages in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u229	Mr. President. I'll call attention to what. Councilmen say this is still adding money to the new Institute of Education, the Institute of Education. This points to the fact that, first of all, there appears to be no clear policy on whether a project should be carried out in public institutions or within councils and either to install new institutions or to transfer institutions into the Ministry. However, it is interesting to note that this organization estimated to receive about a billion in the next five years of a lock project is increasing at the same time as tax has been raised by books and Icelandic authors, especially children's authors, expressed concern about the lack of support for good and interesting literature for children. We do well to ask ourselves, " Is this a wrong priorities when I want to build up a child's locks? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u230	A respectable president. As soon as I'm sorry that this has been made a proposal for the scholarship of high school to receive all the students who want to attend, I have to call the senator's attention to the fact that there is now a down payment on the credit fund of Icelandic students, where new information indicates that the borrowers are making small loans. At the same time, the balance of study costs is being removed, i.e. The rural strength, 50 million is being taken from there. K. to meet increased environmental costs for the environment in LIN. A respectable president. How does it make sure that there is an increase in the cost of administrative care in the case of large increase in applications? It doesn't fit. This is at the expense of students in the scattered areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u231	A respectable president. Of course, there is a measure of evidence as to the amount of money that is being paid when the loaners drop so quickly in that way. I think it would have been a lot better if people had taken this money and used it to further the production because it's way too low. Students cannot survive this. At the same time, educational authorities are urging people to go through education more quickly and through college. A respectable president. It does not sum up the amount paid for by the LIN and then by the government's policy of going through the education system. This needs to be considered, and it would have been a natural use of this money to raise the advance of the loan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u232	V.E.G. President. Here on the 31st, we include 10 million. K. temporary financial resources for the National Music Museum of Kópavogi so that nothing will be left in the next year so that the state and the town of Kopavogs will agree on how this fine collection will be permanently operating. I rejoice over this suggestion, and I'm absolutely certain that it will. The minister of education and the guardians of Kopavogtown can gather next year to see how the value in this museum will be maintained for the future. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u233	President. We're here to vote on an increase in educational and cultural contributions by 170 million. K. for a work on digital Icelandic. It's a subject we've been discussing here at the council almost entirely since the election. This has led to a cross - political understanding of the importance of this project because of the Icelandic language's position and the amount of exposure to it in the flea languages of the world. It is important for the Council to stick together to defend itself against that position. V.E.G. In a special discussion, the Minister of Education and Culture said that he wanted to ensure that 200 million a year is sensitive. The government contributes 30 million to this project. Here we propose an additional 170 and, of course, hope to the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture is on our side in this, just like the other good suggestions of his legal group that we're putting forward here. V.E.G. As a matter of fact, the minister of economic and economics spoke for this project at the Independence Party meeting, as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u234	A respectable president. It is true that this is an important assignment. The kind of work we've planned to do is to work together in our job life to finance the project in the coming years. The progress, then, is the work that will be funded to prepare the proposal, plan the work programme, and address these factors. We give ourselves some months, and then we have what money we need to spend on the project. This work will be accomplished, and there will be cooperation between the state and the sector that underscores the importance of this matter and that may be agreed upon by the entire body of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u235	A respectable president. We now vote for development and international help, and I'd like to be especially happy to have a contribution to that number increase by 531 million. It's 13 million inside. K. increase to the United Nations University in Iceland Icelanders have been participating in this work for years with good results. There, we have been able to share our fountain of wisdom in various language groups that are well - versed. There are another 500 million in humanitarian matters and emergency services, but unfortunately, there is distress in many parts of the world, and we are expected to do our part. That's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u236	Mr. President. This is where the government proposes an end to 400 million. Protocols are, in fact, based policy in action. This government has been cutting up parish plans since it entered ignominious sums, and now more part is proposed to increase something than just 208 million, but when the last government divorced them, parish plans were set up to 400 million. We suggest 400 million will be put into parish plans, but much solidarities across all parts of the country have been proposed to be a tool that has worked well where the national part of the country and local markets are devoted to building parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u237	Mr. President. Although the numbers from the greater part of the bill and into adjustments are increasing, this is because more projects are being put under the application schedule. In the smaller part, we suggest we add 400 million. K. Of course, it would have to be much higher. This would have to be closer to 1.5 billion if the parts of the country were to bring in a dignity in making a budget, as originally thought was, and priorities in their country. It's a start and a regional policy that should be a pleasure. I was surprised to see a lot of faces. Government council members exit when votes for such interests are being sued for the national settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u238	A respectable president. I've often wondered about decisions made by the current government, but I don't think anything came as surprising as when the government cut down the national parish program for its first financial bill. It's an amazing project, took a long time to develop it, it's the right course to direct money into, and much better than we can see in the changes made by the majority of objects, where there are no special processes and decisions are untransparent. I'll give it to myself. Those don't here to listen to this, they just had to go to the bathroom, but I think it's embarrassing. It is embarrassing that the government does not place a proper amount of money in the national parish program. That's sort of an incomprehensible, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u239	A respectable president. The government's attitude toward national and, in fact, land life is reflected in the way long-term programmes are being carried out in the affairs of the country, particularly in the implementation of the conventions that were a very good project to be done during the last terms of the last term with a very broad cooperation and agreement with all relevant members of the national organisations. It sucks to see how the government, in turn, will fail the part of the country with the sleazy cash that is being placed in this category today, 63.5 million. K. Here's a proposal of a smaller section of the budget, the Anti-Semitic Board, to raise this, more than four times the budget, to 400 million. It's the least that you can survive with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u240	Mr. President. I have to agree with those who have spoken here. This is where we're talking about the operation. In a year since the administration of the government, local authorities, wherever they are standing, have arranged for a meeting of financial committees and asked: "Why don't they put more money into this? " No, then we come back again to an appetite for more part of the legal committee, which puts money on a certain project on its own rather than to strengthen the programs that the national parts themselves have come up with, with a scattered, transparent process in their area. But I have to say, I'm glad that I'm being taken from the Department of Employment and put it into parish plans. I think they're better kept, as well as transparent. A respectable president. However, I have to express my frustration that this is an old - fashioned practice instead of using a process that all local representatives who have visited the legal committee are pleased to express. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u241	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u242	Mr. President. We vote to put money in a tourist market fund. This team has been a major trouble team at the top. Government and supreme. A travel minister has found it difficult to estimate what would require a lot of dollars to build up in tourist areas and on the inside of peace - related areas. There's 517 million in addition to the 149 estimated at the beginning of the year, as cool as it was today. I'm surprised that we don't stand there at 750 million, as stated at a meeting of the budget board that they've been asked to do on behalf of the Ministry. The amount has been pulled down to 517, so a total of 666 million will be in a tourist market fund. That is certainly better than 149 million, but that is less than what the Ministry said would have to do in 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u243	Mr. President. It is obvious that this has been an elbow child since the government began. The traveller's budget has been mentioned on the basis of the smaller portion in each financial debate, where the fund has not received adequate financial support. Then comes the highest. A minister says that it is to blame those who need to be built up because they are not on time. Sadly, this is a real disrespect for the people who have to wait to know whether the funds will come and if they will arrive on time. It has been added only to the budget because a minister has slipped his ass with the suggestions presented in this series of issues. That's not enough. It is obvious from the proposals that have been discussed in the budgetary committees, as we were doing before and exceedingly strangely, that we are still on our way with the fact that even the state itself, which needs to be built up in its places, has not been prepared within a time frame, that we are going back and forth to go into a budget year where it is clear that there is not enough money for these cases. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u244	A respectable president. It's an amazing situation that's been carrying this one budget. I won't tell you whether this is enough or not, but I'm just going to hope we don't get this team into the next budget. It would be quite unbelievable. I also feel that it is proper to point out that we have not yet been able to get into the proper level of income for this team. The natural pass somehow disappeared here at the council, and there are no other plans at the highest level. Minister. I think it's important that this industry contributes. We need to look to the future, to build up these structures, and to make sure that those who make use of them will have to be paid for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u245	Mr. President. There's been an incredible situation in financing of tourism's enterprise funds. Last year there were only about 145 million in the fund, but as the summer passed, 850 million dolls were up to an effort to correct where there were problems and the need for financial support. But the funding came all too late, and no preparation had been made because people expected that there were no more in the fund than 145 million. Now, more of the budget is being added to the fund. At that time, it is about 517 million, far too little money. We're getting a huge number of tourists back to the country. This is turning into the nation's largest industry, and we're going to pull our feet. We have no forward policy barrier in this series, and we cannot handle the structure of infrastructure and nature and make sure things are properly maintained. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u246	A respectable president. We're here to vote for a new team that no one knows what, which is the management center of travel. Yes, we've heard something about it through the media, but we haven't discussed it here at this council. Last year we talked a lot about travel, the natural pass, on a job committee. He didn't go well into anyone's mouth. It's the highest decision now. Ministers just to let go of the council and set up the Board of travel without discussing it with a king or a priest. I don't quite understand this kind of work, and I count on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u247	A respectable president. The history of the government, of the travel policies in this ideal period, is one ongoing tragedy. The natural pass code went what it did. Here is the contribution made by independents to the campaign ▪ Turn away, a new government agency that no one knows what to do. In addition, this branch of national transportation, which produces 32% of its exports, is supplied from a government fund at regular intervals by contributions from the general tax, which could go into our health or education system because the government is incapable of finding a process to let the tourists pay for the structure that is inevitable for the development of the analysis. This is an absolute failure of this government to travel, but I sincerely congratulate independents on votes in support of this new meaningless government that no one knows what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u248	Mr. President. Here, the success of the government in tourism, which is, on the other hand, to have failed to negotiate the natural currency of the tourism service, and we are approaching in 2016, and to set aside a new committee with all the other committees to take care of travel policies. I find this to be a remarkable success for the government when it comes to tourism policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u249	Mr. President. Here we are suggesting that 65 million. K. they'll be placed in a new office, not in an institution, it's not an institution, it's something else. I asked the highest. A travel minister on how a travel agency's work, travel council and Iceland office would change with the development of travel management centres and the role of the existing institutions, which appear to play a role that this new non-US is to play. The answer is that the management center is a government and tourism platform, and with Vega for travel services and the development of travel management centres is not changing the site for travel services, but it is not excluded that something will change as time goes on. Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators don't know what they're voting with right now, but there's 65 million there. K. Which I think may be more useful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u250	A respectable president. Here we are paying a vote for funding to the new transport base, which is not a conversational field. A senator read up here, but a cooperative and consistent field as shown in the answer. That is exactly the way it is, unlike what it is. Yeah. paritaprevir This is where Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir claimed that we were at last, and maybe should have happened a few years ago, policy-making, which is the result of much work of my Ministry and the article itself. With the establishment of the Management Board, we have a platform to help guide this important industry, strengthen it, and establish the solid foundation that is needed for us to plan and take over the board of directors for this category. [[The president calls.]] The attendance of the council and members of Congress has been just the same as any other interested person on this matter. [[The president calls.]] We have called for cooperation, and there have been over 50 international meetings in this preparation, including members of Congress here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u251	A respectable president. It would have been interesting to hear at the top. A minister to where she saw this money go, for it was mentioned in the hearing of the chairman of the legal committee that they went to this new administrative center. Now we have the active Research Centre for Tourism in Akureyri, which has largely seen in the field of travel studies. [[Up front.]] That is why I would have felt that it was proper for me to explain the identity of these funds. I don't think it's normal that they're being put into this new control center. I believe they belong where quality research has taken place, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u252	A respectable president. We've got 150 million approved here. K. increase in research for tourism. One of the findings became clear in the work of the Vegast was that there was a lack of reliable data to further forward policy development. The answer is now being addressed and corrected. That 150 million. K. I've joined the Ministry to start with while being checked and reviewed within the management center what studies are being done here and there, both in the administrative and educational institutions, including The one that's right. A senator mentioned. It was decided not to place this on certain institutions, as they would be and good as they might be, until it was time for what research we needed to do. [[The president calls.]] This will be available at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u253	V.E.G. President. Although, in this case, only money is being added to the right team, the costs for maintenance are being met in sheep's disease fences, and I celebrate every cent that comes in that seminary. But I would like to emphasize it, where the money has come into it, that it will be done thoroughly in the process of making an invitation outside the fence. There have been calls from many sheep farmers around the country who want the money to be used to repair fences or to pull down fences that are no longer useful and that are now in danger. It has also been observed that the signals are made in repairs or subversive fences, and they are not followed, and they have to wait for them even longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u254	A respectable president. This year, in the 100th anniversary of the election of women, there have been a number of revolutions of young women and women of all ages who have taken steps to discuss sexual violence. This year's discussion has increased dramatically and financial resources - reflecting the reality and everyday lives of these women and these efforts - to respond. It is essential that both the prosecution, the extramarital, the research, and the police authorities be strengthened to advance the extravasation of this party. Here, the smaller part contributes to 200 billion. K. to the district attorneys and police officers to meet this urgent need and to find them at the police offices, and to exchange them for what the votes will bring to the next teams.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u255	V.E.G. President. Although Iceland is in the first place in the World Economic Forum on gender equality, we do not have sex equality in Iceland. Its two major manifestations are sexual differences in pay and sexual violence. Here, a smaller portion of the budget is laid to 200 million. K. will be suggested by the police and the police to act specifically on domestic violence, domestic violence studies, and special efforts by community services in supporting the victims of this violence, especially the children. I encourage all who are engaged in a struggle for a better society, a society where equality and people enjoy freedom from violence, to support these suggestions in the smaller parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u256	Mr. President. The smaller portion suggests 200 billion spending. K. to resist and counteract sexual violence. The money is distributed to police agencies and district attorneys as noted. The police are too few in number, and this has been done many times in committees as well as in the council hall. Its work has improved dramatically and has been linked to the growing number of tourists. The danger is that such projects, such as what we discuss here, are ignored when problems such as heavy issues arise. Tourists such as we know, deaths, accidents, etc., and the police do not increase. It is therefore very important that the Senate agree with the proposal, but I can see that the Senate does not intend to accept this financial proposal. [[The president calls.]] That's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u257	Mr. President. I'm sorry to see the message we're sending here. The former Minister of Homeland made money on this project, and unfortunately, it is not finished. The sex - related statistics are striking and show that much of the women in Iceland have been subjected to such acts of violence, and a large percentage of young girls are subject to child abuse. Therefore, the government puts 200 million into action to resist sexual violence, to rely on the rights of the justice system to establish laws against sexual offenders, and to ensure effective measures for sexual abuse. It is very important to strengthen the police, the prosecution, to ensure the education of the professions and all those who are serving in a penitentiary, and to bring up legal proceedings for them. A respectable president. I can't believe that the U.S. Senate has failed to rely on its efforts to strengthen the police and State prosecutors for good works in behalf of sexual violence. Have the revolutions that have been ruling this year and last year had no effect on members of a respected president? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u258	A respectable president. I guess it doesn't matter what you're doing here. It doesn't matter that there has been a social revolution when it comes to the wake of awareness regarding sexual abuse. I'm just gonna say thank you for that, Fatherdom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u259	A respectable president. Now that we've joined all the police force in the country, it's real hard to see all the senators vote against the suggestion that sexual violence, which is one of the most subtle and so far, has been one of the most hidden lesions in our society because of the hidden nature of the problem and also because of the many times and times being held on this level. Because of the few and even poorly qualified police services, the courtyards have been sullied and damaged. It's a human rights matter and one of the fundamental things that require a release in our society if we want to live here in a humanable and good society where human rights are respected and true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u260	Mr. President. There's a suggestion that 400 million people go to law enforcement in the country. V.E.G. The Minister of the Interior Minister has spoken of the importance of using it to cover tourism growth projects and border security projects. Now the office may be somewhat different. Just less than 400 million is a large population of sliding. If they are to make use of this money to pay uphill, they will not be able to take advantage of the vital work that needs to be done in 2016. Hv. The senators were killing 200 billion. K. ... to allow the police to act against sexual violence. [[Foreground on: No.]] The 400 million will not be enough to assist the law and the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u261	A respectable president. We now vote for the growth of law enforcement, and the proposal for a greater share is to add 400 million. K. We. I'm all for it. I like the plan. Of course, you always want to see more. Last of the budget, this government added 500 million to the lawsuit. So we want to do better. This amount is designed to ensure an adequate service and security level across the country. It will be assessed in an area. This is the best part. Hv. Harðardóttir It's not enough, but it's great. I think it's going a long way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u262	A respectable president. I'm going to celebrate what is now joined by law enforcement in the same way as I'm going to celebrate the forces previously approved by much more and relate to the police services in this country. A respectable president. I object to the appeal of many government opposers that the same as it is between putting their proposals ahead of you and resisting sexual violence. That's a ridiculous comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u263	Mr. President. In case of a moment. Senators have concluded their argument here in the audience, I'm going to be allowed to account for my vote. I'm very happy that this special funding has come in for law enforcement. I hope it will be used to build up, but not to overcome a battle that has been in recent years. I said here on a special discussion at the time, about law enforcement in the country, that these 400 million would not be enough, but they would be a fine start. I'm gonna do it again here. The 400 million people listed here are not enough to make the law enforcement room for their work, but it's a good start, and I'm celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u264	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this 400 million, I'm not trying to hide it. Much money is missing in law enforcement, as we know, it needs to be built up as many others after difficult years. But this is not enough, and the 200 million that the smaller part made the suggestion, based on sexual violence, is a need, not an overexchange, that's perfectly clear. As for others, I'm concerned that this is going to be a payoff because many of the offices aren't well, it's done a lot of things, both for the ministry and for the minister and for the financial committee. If the money goes to pay up the sliding business, we're not raising the number of cops, neither the public police nor the police in research. Unfortunately, there is a reality that we face that police are far too badly designed, especially in the scattered areas of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u265	A respectable president. I want to be like other members of Congress to celebrate the contribution that comes here in addition to the police and show that this is an additional of the 500 million that have been added to the party at the beginning of the season. These 500 million have been very successful and have made a big difference for many of the country's police offices. A lot of work has been done within the Ministry around that intervention and the implementation of law enforcement programs, etc. You can see how to make the most of this money and where the need is most needed. I'm pointing out that these are permanent funds that are coming in here and far from going into a sliding business. This will bring relief to the office. I'd also like to point out what we just agreed to do right now, moving a project to the U.S. Association police to promote law enforcement throughout the country, to make it more visible, and more important. They're also working on the police's changing education. The police have a lot to do in excess of the 400 million important and welcome ones. Overall, it will be about a billion other things that come to the police during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u266	A respectable president. I don't think it's much popular with any members of Congress, but I'd like to try to dissuade people. The reason this point may be rather incomprehensible is how the laws of the law are set up. Especially when it comes to dealing with immigrants and foreigners, many things are added to the same team. This is a suggestion, and all taken up, as it depends on the same team, to strengthen the reception of refugees, and particularly to support the rural communities that control that work; to increase contributions to capitalists, in addition to the expansion of the administrative sector, and more as a contribution to other development in the service of immigrants, i.e. Development fund and operation plan in the group. Since the structure of the budget is not clearer than this, it's all in one piece.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u267	A respectable president. There are, however, some of us in the smaller part of work that has been involved in the review of alien laws, very good cross - political work that has been especially supported by the highest level. Minister of the Interior Minister and former Minister of Ministers, in fact, also; extremely important work. It would be especially fitting to have the same kind of parapolitic analysis and understanding that has characterized this type of work. I'm sorry that it is here on the vote table that this important proposal does not have the support of much of the part, because, as shown here in an explanation. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér are material reasons for the lack of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u268	A respectable president. This suggests that money will be greatly added to this category and will not be the main goal of improving the treatment of refugees when they arrive here. In the air, the number of refugees in Iceland is expected to increase in the next few days. This is in harmony with official government policies. How important it is that the treatment of such people be corrected and adjusted as recent and shocking experiences prove! It is also important to support international institutions and relief organizations that welcome refugees, especially from Syria. So this is a very good suggestion and need. I'm sorry she's not going to have any gangs here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u269	President. Much of my explanation can be found in the comments of the senators who have expressed themselves before me. I find it very important to focus on the work that has taken place in a parapolitic committee on the development of new laws on the affairs of foreigners, so that laws can be carried out. I find it very important that I have made it clear that a great many Icelanders want to help when it comes to helping people who take refuge in Iceland. We must do the same. It is not enough just to say that it is. We have to do it in a way that works.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u270	V.E.G. President. Anyone who watches news or media is aware of the world's present condition. I'm afraid that's terrible. A large number of people are fleeing, a great many because of war, while others escape situations that are not available. Of course, people seek where prosperity is greater. I think it's our duty, as one of the richest nations in the world, to put money on the road to welcome these people when they come here. We have seen in these last days that failure to do good can lead to disaster. I'm sorry, but I don't have any funding for this party. I just think we have a moral obligation to do more. I'm very sad that most of the U.S. Congress doesn't agree with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u271	A respectable president. Iceland's prison cases are out of order. They're in serious trouble. Suggest 80 million. K. The increase in budgets for the State Prison Institute for Prison is of little value in order to be at the head of the prison system, in my opinion. There's another adjustment proposal of 45 million here. K. ... fromwhat. more than zero. But not far from being enough. I will, of course, vote with the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u272	Mr. President. It is true that there are 45 million of them. The majority of the legal committees don't recommend it. In the case of the director of the prison office, Páll Winkell, it has been said that imprisonment may have to be shut down. He's mentioned both Akureyri and Cuisy in that regard. It is clear that although the prison in Hólmshök will be used next year, this does not mean caring for what is needed today. Besides, if jails have to be shut down in the country, of course, we're in a bad place. The prisoners in jail will then be away from their families. We've got to keep this under our control. These are not large sums of money that are being offered here but that could change the amount of money. Already there's 500 waiting for abduction. We've got 155 slots in this country's prisons. It's clear that something really needs to change here, a respectable president, if this is going to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u273	A respectable president. I think there's a reason to be concerned about this case. I have to trust the Ministers to read the General Accounting Report or at least have their assistants do so. A 2013 State Review report was published that was a follow-up report for a 2010 prison report. It is said that funding must be carried out on legal projects. That's one tip. Also, those with psychiatric disorders receive appropriate services. Since the follow-up report came out, foot sliding rather than other. I must wonder: Is these reports just seated under a chair? I agree with the people who have spoken here. These are not high amounts of money to be added, but it is unacceptable that 500 people wait to serve. Now they're talking about shutting down prisons. What's going on here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u274	A respectable president. I think it's a bit indiscriminate when we talk about shutting down prisons on the phone. Extra funds came in on the 2nd. budget for 2016 of 45 million. There is now still unsupervised at the Council budgets for 2015, where a greater proportion of the legal committees contributed to 20 million. K. An increase in the number of imprisoned persons. That will include a total of 65 million who are currently spending the years, making only 15 million. A respectable president. I don't believe it until I see the need to close prisons for these reasons and to remind them that it is often the less part that the less part will use that technology in a vote of the council to be paid to do some kind of premise and that it is in this proposal. A greater proportion of the legal committees, now as usual, are willing to make the prison case a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u275	A respectable president. It's a road thing. There is reason to be deeply concerned about that language. This government has made a decision not to put these matters first. There is concern, first of all, because the maintenance of the roads is lacking and now as much as it has been seen in recent years, raising the amount of money to the road. Second, I must mention, too, that there are virtually no new ones. The new projects that have started in this terms period are rooted in the decisions made by the former governments. I have to say exactly as it is, a respectable president, that if we're not to go badly, we're stuck with a position that's going to be hard to wind off, then people have to start putting more money in the road. No transport plan has been produced, and there is no valid transport plan, in the crystals of how this series of issues has been established. [[The president calls.]] I don't think people can see the end of the whole thing going on if nothing has to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u276	Mr. President. I have made many progress in this discussion that there is no need to provide transportation financial resources without the availability of a transport strategy, without the development of a secretary's priorities, without urgency. The Environment and Transport Committee has dealt with the situation and listened to views. A transport plan has not been established here since the last transport program in 2012. As I support this transitional proposal for increasing transport funding, I feel that it must be followed by a transport program that goes through a natural legal process and natural therapy. I challenge the highest. Government and government to ensure that such a program will be submitted at this council and provided in spring because it is just a disgrace to us, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u277	A respectable president. There is no valid transport plan, and really the only thing being done in transport today is projects determined by the former government. Today, the road system is affected by many types of damage, and it can be said to be neglected. Of course, this is serious, especially because the number of tourists has increased the pressures on the road system. So it's not just a matter of maintaining the road system, it's also a very important traffic security problem. This proposal, which goes out on an extra 700 million. K. to the extent that the proposals made in the budget are actually the least that will survive. Of course, this is not an invitation, for all who live in the country and in the scattered regions will see the state of the road system. In fact, the damage is becoming, and it is now much more expensive to be in the aimlessness of transport now than to make transportation plans and to work effectively. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u278	Mr. President. It is with the fact that there is no planning for transportation, and there is no organization regarding how we are going to build up the roads. The money of the government is cut down on trog. There have been few changes in donations made to this category since this government began, and what is being done today is a major project that was set forward during the last term. This is where we propose in the smaller section to make up for 700 million. K. in maintenance and 700 million. K. on new projects. It is also surprising that the road structure is funded by market-based income stocks, and now it is the funds that go to the road to travel beyond the markets of commercial institutions paid on the road model as a debt. Are they just supposed to make up a debt? Don't we ever have an opportunity to improve these horse trails that are still in many parts of the country and are called here on the budget to be like road trouble in the Caucasus Mountains? [[The president calls.]] It is not exemplary, and this government has no ambition in transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u279	A respectable president. I'm going to start by making comments about why. Chairman of the budget board. I'm sorry, sir, that our proposal regarding prison cases is an amnesty. Páll Winkel has said there are 80 million missing. K. which are needed to maintain function. He has said that it is likely that he will have to close two prisons and lay down prison guards. But with regard to the road, it is quite clear that decisions have been made here, as we know, and were taken here this summer, and then they had to come into budgets. So the group of paintings has been overcrowded. A treatment strategy has not yet been established and is not yet available, although it has been stated at a meeting of the budget committee when the changes made in the majority of the segments showed that it was coming just a few minutes ago. Still for a while, there are terms that seem to be difficult to read. It is very important that these decisions are not made by some of the specific ideas of those on the budget, as they did in the summer, that the transport Council is not being passed. A beautiful career isn't being carried on by a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It's impossible to do this and not have a long - term plan of the same magnitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u280	A respectable president. I welcome the increase shown in the budget bill on the one hand for docking, and on the other, for flying choice and flying history services. We finished our spring transport program out of a transport committee, and I'm very happy, and I want to thank you. The budget for following the proposals that appeared on the more part of the transport committee during spring, but unfortunately it was not possible to complete. I think it might just as well look at the government side as much of the part when it comes to whether it was supposed to be done or not. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. May all of us strive to find more money in transport. I'm one of those who think it's urgent and necessary, and I'm hoping that there'll be a good deal that we'll be going to this lawsuit next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u281	A respectable president. I agree with every word. paritaprevir Fear of Höskuldur, son of Þórhallsson. I'm just going to point out that more than a portion of the legal committee suggested new 400 million. K. In a steel panel, many countries have to reject the need for a complete renewal of life. 400 million. K. We propose to continue the construction and construction of airports in the region and may not be enough for you and 200 billion. K. In addition to the telecommunication fund to have the role of leading the country, which is one of the greatest developments ever conducted by that government. Finally, a respectable president, it may be the little numbers that are most important, for this is where we proposed after a visit of more than 40 rural partners - there is a claim that we are saluting our friends, but a financial committee received so many communities. We're going to the Marine Park 40 million. K. which were to go to the stronghold of the Viking seaguard, but as everyone knows, he was surmounting in the storm that crossed the land, so that at least there is a sure financing to fix it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u282	A respectable president. It is a joy in itself that the government and the greater part are setting up funding for docking. There are many seas surrounding the land that are damaged. But the fact that one member of the management team is assigned the task of suggesting this and that a quarter of the money in question is at sea in his own community is certainly not a very professional project. It must be acknowledged right now and must, of course, criticize it. It is not a small amount but, rather, the one that goes to Grinsavík, the equivalent of the amount, and the smaller portion suggested to improve the withdrawal rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u283	Mr. President. Here's a quarter more to add another 400 million. K. in the Redemption Fund, a case that has been financed since the start of the present government. The procedure for the intervention of the Refundment Fund and how more of the legal committees do this is not a credit to the council. Of course, this is to be done on a professional, transport agenda, and here are very little funds in relation to the needs of this country in this category. Then it's kind of today's joke about airports. The budget bill contains a budget for flight and maintenance of airports and a cutdown of about 500 million projects. K. But more of the budget is being made up of 400 million. K. and they beat their chests against it. They are large on a budget board to recommend 400 million who are not even involved in the cutbacks on the highest bill. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] It's Colombian.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u284	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir According to Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, when she says that there are very little money in this, 600 million in Refraid Fund is too small when the Vega estimates that in the years to come, it takes 1 billion from the state to meet rejections where there is a great need for renewal. Whether or not to Grindavik, the indignities, I can inform the United States that of the 600 million are going to Grinsavík, 100 million in the village, 100 million at the Rifst, and 80 million are now being held - yes, because a contribution to Grinsavík was not expected until the following year. [[Up front.]] In the opinion of the committee, we note that we are speeding up the project and are on the four - year transport program that was not actually done here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u285	A respectable president. We now vote, among other things, to add money to the telecommunication fund, which is very important and has been called to our homes. The legal committee this fall. Unfortunately, we're still at the point where we're breaking down to connect unconnected settlements, but with the changes we're going to now, we're going to be able to win even bigger victories on it. I remind you that due to the changes made by the current government in the budget last year, the invitation is being made to the latter part of the Vestífíð. So we're exaggerating this important matter, and based on the discussion that has taken place in the Hall on that matter, I would now expect everyone to be on the green button when we came to accept this change of motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u286	Mr. President. It is true that this is a good addition to what was in the bill and is necessary. But I've called for us to see something further into the future. It'll be over, what, two thousand and something, I don't know. This plan is 10 to 15 years of age, compared with the budget now set in which it was applied this year. We need to visualize, too, how long we will be doing this. It's very important. All units have put it first. This is a prerequisite for the development, especially in the scattered areas, both that companies can grow and thrive and that similar activities can be pursued and so can be pursued. I agree that these are good first steps and important, but they don't work. I would have liked to see the future or at least the next year how we were going to do this, but not to have to look beyond the budget now that it will take 20 years if it is what the government is going to do. But of this we do not know, most respected president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u287	A respectable president. Now I'm going to vote with the top of the board because I think it's 200 million. K. increase from 315 billion. K. is a significant addition. However, I draw attention to the fact that it still needs to go further. The more funding is lacking because of improved telecommunications and fiber optics, one of the most fundamental markets we are facing today is the basic conditions for the country and the whole country, and especially the national part of the country, to improve their competitiveness and to be competitive to promote employment and to improve habitat conditions in their habitats. This structure must be significantly accelerated according to what has been done. But I'll admit that there's a good one for this time, and this is a very good first step, and I'm going to vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u288	A respectable president. It's not just well planned, it's a rather well-developed class, a lawsuit that was by no means the policy of any former government class or the entire government body. [[Up front.]] Hv. Ólína Kjerúlf by the Offline of the Þorvarðardóttir for the honor of supporting this fine case, the shame is on your side of the government stand that does not support the fiber-traveling developments that will completely farm-sized conditions all over the country. [[For example: Well?]] The shame is yours.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u289	Mr. President. It's amazing how bad it is. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's palace is speaking. The one standing here, along with others, suggested that a high - speed extension be completed in four years, a plan, and completion in four years. This is an enormously urban situation, and there is no point in hanging out in the coming decades. I thank you for receiving these 200 million people here, besides 300 million. But it's a business exchange, and it needs to be fought every year for money. [[Up front.]] The president of the European Union said that there was no existing plan, and this would take decades. Today there are 200 million people, but we do not know what will happen next year. They're just supposed to be a lot more ambitious than this and give them 3,500 homes in the country to finish this whole thing. The estimated cost is 6.3 billion, and it must be offered to all the countries to provide a high speed link across the country outside the market. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u290	A respectable president. It grieves me greatly to see this rural body not agree to put half a billion in a fiber optics, I just don't have a word, it's a big case where, although some rural communities are ready to go, have had the bid come out, and just wait to get started. [[Up front.]] No, no, come on, come on. Councilmen who have pretended to be very interested and who are not involved. [[Up front.]] Of course, it would have been nice to have more money. But there are so many issues, health issues, roads, customs, and aging issues. [[The president calls.]] It's missing so many places. But as for this first step, that men aren't ready to go along, I don't think it's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u291	We in the smaller part have been here many days wanting to fight for the disability and older citizens. With these suggestions, we usually offer 35 of you. K. an increase in a month for those who rely solely on social security payments for their advancement, except for our proposal in the budget of almost 200 yards. K. remuneration is indicated as a dress correction back to May 1st, 2015. Our proposals and suggestions for the majority of the segment are 350 points. K. Difference. Although some in here may find 350 of yours. K. Not a lot of money that would correspond to one and a half of the monthly incomes of those who fully rely on social security. I'm here to challenge the members of the greater part of the body that is equal to ensuring all in Iceland's natural development and supporting our proposals. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u292	V.E.G. President. We now vote to improve the quality of disability and pensioners. This is because of the changes we've been able to make here and talk because we're in here the ones who have the ideal disability, and that includes these votes that we're going to make because the social security benefits are made up of several and different joints. Although this adjustment is about household satisfaction and special compensation, it is part of improving the quality of disability. Of course, I support the suggestion, and it makes me feel very sorry to see that there is no more to it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u293	The fact that we don't give them life with dignity that's the worst, and we can't really get a living in a farm except with the rest of us, there's a disgrace in the community in which we live. I feel very sad that now that the government repeatedly says that we are living in a time of great good, we cannot guarantee that those who really need our support may be allowed to live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u294	A respectable president. Although this joint is primarily in terms of social assistance, I would like to review the gratitude I originally stated on the suggestions and mutualness I find here at the council to increase the contribution to social security and to social assistance. On the other hand, regarding this immediate proposal, I would like to mention that there has been a significant debate about the growth of disability victims. The change in the course of the day, taking up a rehabilitation pension, has certainly been successful, successful for individuals, and successful for society. We saw that there may be an increase in the number of people who were entering a rehabilitation pension at the end of the heavy unemployment that we were allowed to experience in the wake of the collapse. On the other hand, there are changes that can be seen in this regard. The work programme that the Parliament has achieved with the workforce has been achieving. [[The president calls.]] Then I would also like to mention that here we are adding support to these groups of automobile purchases, and that certainly does not help.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u295	V.E.G. President. There have been many times in this discussion, which is about to be concluded that the government that now sits plans to gate the pensioner and microsurgents to those who have the lowest salary. It will already happen during the New Year's season with the increase that will be then. What has been tried on the part of the government position is to put a command to increase back in time, which fails because at the start of the year on this project of 3.9 billion and the addition that is now coming at the annual convention, these groups will be better off than the lowest wage. In addition, the administrative body has expressed its will that by 2018 the minimum wage for this group will be 300 you. K. So I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u296	A respectable president. Much has been said about decisions that have to do with the ideal pensioners in this financial bill. But it cannot be overlooked that in the spring of 2011, when the state's population was in short wages, it was the decision of that government under the front of the Guðbjartur - given heitinn Hannesson that the pensioners were to enjoy fully and fully the betters that were specifically agreed on in the low wage agreements above the requirements of the law. Now, a new low - paying contract has been made, and it is obvious that this year and the next year, pensioners will be about eight months each year, with less income than underpayers. The proposal presented here allows members of the board to secure the situation of pensioners. We've noticed before. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has declared that he is ashamed of the vote on the same subject during the treatment of funds, and I look forward to seeing how the senators as one shall vote for this vote. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u297	A respectable president. I've been discussing at the council expressing my view that the benefit of the pensioner and the pensioner needs to be improved. That's the big job ahead of you. So I can't vote against this proposal. But I've made sure that a rich will is to improve the interests of this group. In fact, we have done so richly. That will is important, and I trust our position in the greater part of the world to further the campaign for these groups. The goal is about 300 yards. K. The minimum wage in 2018 is in sight. With that interest, therefore, I sit with this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u298	A respectable president. I would like to use this opportunity and remind the senators to vote according to their own convictions and to remind them of the virtues they signed when they first sat at the council. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u299	President. We've all heard stories about old people who don't have money for food. All of us have heard stories about poor people who live in sickness, and called invalids, who do not have money for food. Today, Christmas is the month, and I know a lot of people who fear before the next few days, since they don't have money for Christmas to give their children or grandchildren. What kind of association are we living in? One of the richest lands in the world and poverty remains for those who are weak and defined as desperate - what kind of community is that? Now that we have had tremendous increases in pay, we cannot see our financial recovery, as we have received, for the disability and pensioners. [[The president calls.]] What kind of community is that? And what kind of society reflects votes tonight? What kind of government? Of course I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u300	Mr. President. Of course, we are expected to pay pensioners and microchip wages that are comparable to the lowest wage, but they are also too low. Of course, if we think about people's advancement, we know what is wrong and do not have to give sound reasons for this to be true. And when it comes to saying that we here, the smaller part of a council, have some particular calculations, there's little left to us for the calculations of the Quantum Community and the older citizens as well. The senators should remember that these numbers are not made in our minds. Sadly, all too many of us have a difficult time ahead of us, but not entirely. And when the discussion has led to the fact that a part of this group can only go to work to improve their income, I find that it is an extremely slight to those people. That's all I can say. These words have fallen here in the public assembly of some rulers, and it sucks to know that people allow themselves to speak that way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u301	Mr. President. This is a very sensitive group of subjects. We are to be proud that we have managed to build up our country's economy in a way that enables us in recent years to make significant improvements in these matters, and we do so in harmony with the pay changes in the country, which are claims about something else here in the conference directly at the lawbook, which clearly states that remuneration should be a basis for changes in government insurance. Of course, this is ensured by an increase of 9.7%. We should continue to try to improve in this regard. One of the reasons why we can do so is for us to continue to have a valuable creation. It is interesting, though, that the most common figures here are the same ones as most often speak against the priorities we should put on to increase the value of our country, such as using sustainable energy in our country, for example, yes. [[A big one?]] [[Up front.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u302	A respectable president. This government has been raising expectations ever since it began working, speaking as if there is enough money. Actually, there's a lot of money. This government decided to put 90 billion in random subsidies on the privatized property loans. We're not talking about 90 billion here, we're talking about a few billion people who make the worst of them better. It's political priorities, and we'll just see where the government is on that. We don't agree with this, and I don't think the government will make it better for old age and disability next year, but they will, on their terms, and I'm going to let myself believe that we in this body of Congress have had something to do with it. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u303	A respectable president. I say no because I support the policy of this government in its financial, financial policies. The first work of the government was to improve the interests of the elderly and the disability-employers. I want to say that this work will continue as it has been done so far. I believe that by running a government fund down debt and paying off debts, we are gathering into the cable so that we can give the least, and that's exactly how we're supposed to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u304	A respectable president. We've been updating benefits, and we'll continue to raise benefits. We will use the extent to improve the interests of those who have been few. We've been talking about how we'll be using the space we need to improve the interests of every home in Iceland. Especially in the bill is it evident that we are pursuing the changes we have already made in the social security system, with an increase of 27 billion dollars. I also know that the government has had the same priorities. I believe the emphasis is so thankable to every senator that we want to do better when it comes to those who rely on social security benefits. But I think it's also important to keep that in mind now that we look at how we're going to change the social security system, how we're going to do more. More than 60 yards. one receives compensation, and their circumstances vary greatly. I think it's very important that we think about it and that we see how we can support those who really have mentioned between the hands in the social security system. It'll be clear in the near future. But the emphasis is here; improvements follow the minimum since January 1st, 2016. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u305	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance does not have to tell us members of the future nothing about the need for a valuable creation as a basis for improving life spans. We, along with many other members of the council, were in agreement with a body of votes and came through here during the last season of an ambitious investment plan for lucrative projects. A minister made one of his first works to blow off, which I don't fully understand, so we understand the need. The coin to go on it was largely unconcerned and unafraid to the so - called debt drop. Speaking of her, we choose the emphasis in politics, we talk about emphasis, and here we're talking about making the terms of those who have the worst in society get better in line with how the common people's votes have improved in a general labour market. The government flushed money on its opening days to people in the community who have big possessions and lots of money, but they don't want to do this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would never have invaded a debt crisis without even taking action to eliminate society's poverty in the past, to say the least. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u306	President. Icelanders. The elderly and the poor should have the same elevations as others, and they should be received at the same time as others. That's why I say yes. When the head of the Independence Party and the secretary of finance says that the elderly and the desperate have been raised in the same way that the rest of the country, I don't have to correct them. The elderly and desperate in Iceland know best whether they had the same elevations as the rest of the country this year or if the secretary of finance is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u307	Mr. President. This is where we vote on the ideals of society's most sensitive groups. Within these groups are large groups with a very low income. The image produced by the government groups is just part of history because the percentages are not heavy when the base is 180 o'clock. K. No one survives that provision. There are compensations to these groups as a dog. The members of the board of directors are here to say no. I say yes to this suggestion because I think it's very important that society puts the most vulnerable groups in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u308	A respectable president. I am incredibly tired of having participated in the last terms of making painful decisions in order to try to put a wealth on the zero and then look up on this government first to those who have money and then to leave those who have nothing left behind, as in this case. I'm also an amazing way to know that the Minister of the jury is coming up here and that at the end of the year, these members will be equal to those who have the lowest salary in the country when the truth is that right now in May the lowest salary will rise again. The current government refuses to include a suitable pensioner in the labour market development. It's actually called having these people live in less than 200 of yours. K. In a month, and pay for all that he has. He raised his hand one more time, trusting to do so. I can convince you that no one will ever count on you to do that. People in this room are texting that these groups should continue to do so. [[The president calls.]] I say yes, with a suggestion for improvement for these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u309	V.E.G. President. This is where we vote, as shown by whether the elderly and the desperate should receive a 5.9% increase on May 1. like any other employee that has been negotiated. What amount are we discussing? After taxes, it's 7 thoust. K. In other words, the elderly are to be betrayed by an eight - month wage, or 56 of yours. K. every year. The government hangs on the legal basis that this will only be done with the budget. Should they set an example? Would it be best for any collective agreement to be made on January 2nd because it would be 12 months short, but it was not possible to negotiate on December 30 because two days later the elderly and the desperate will receive their sum immediately, in view of that low - scale definition of the government? [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's strange at the very height. The prime minister is disturbed at his seat in the example I took. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] 7 you. K. - No, the elderly and desperate, the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson, says no, and the greater part of the government is involved. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u310	Mr. President. Here we put forth the stand for elderly and poorer people to be the same as the rest of the country's employees. As a nation, we are ashamed of how these groups have fallen behind and that they are to be treated now as compared to other wagemen in the country for eight months of adjustment back in time. I feel amazing when it's the highest. The secretary of finance comes here and draws attention to the opposition to its policies in various matters - I understood it so that because of not being activated fast enough and not being inhabited, they would be inclined to improve the quality of the elderly and the desperate. How low can humans take on a lawsuit to justify the fact that these groups are always leftovers in society? It is not time for us to treat these people with respect and not let them live on 190 levels. K. a month? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Who does it in here? I say yes. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u311	Mr. President. I'm going to go here with some hard-ass numbers to tell you what the top is. Governments and them what? Councilmen who support it are doing so. In 2015, pension payments have been made to one person who lives in 225,060. from May 1, 2015, the lowest salary for the VR and the Flea Community is 255 you. K. That's 30 yards. K. ... fromMay 1st. [[But in January 2016?]] - In January 2016, the pension pay is 246,902 based on information from the Ministry of Health and the lowest wage from May 1 at the VR and the Flea Community is 270 points. K. Those who claim to be 25. K. The difference is nothing, and it doesn't matter that people are equal, and they don't understand what poverty is and what it means to live in it. [[The president calls.]] [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u312	A respectable president. Before the last election, every senior citizen in Iceland received a letter signed by Bjarni Benediktsson, the current highest. Secretary of finance, where it was promised that the first act of the independent party in the government would be to correct the interests of the elderly and the desperate. [[Up front.]] [[The point is: It has been fulfilled.]] Now the recipients of this same letter will see the point of the matter. Now they see one of the senators saying no to the fact that the elderly and the desperate get the same elevation as others do, say no to the reasonable requirement that we should not have to spend the night in order to reason here. This says all that has to be said about the attitude here on animal farms, Animal farms, where all animals are supposed to be equal, but some are just equal. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[# We're on our side # We're on our side #]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u313	A respectable president. A few years ago, an Icelandic society and the Icelandic economy collapsed. Then all agreed to help with the burdens to raise society. Now we've seen evidence of society's rising. No one has said more than leading men. Governments. It turns out that when some groups can be met, it is not possible to meet the lowest and worst in the community, those who are unable to raise themselves up but are entirely dependent on our decisions at the General Assembly. Not increasing the pay of sensibilities and disability to the lowest wage and leaving them in groups until some other time later, when things are even better, unfortunately, it's not good, it's sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u314	V.E.G. President. By permission of the President, the Government Declaration states: ▪ Society is a cooperative work where all jobs are important and that is holding hands. It is important to care for those who need help and also to be able to enjoy the results of their hard work and thinking. The elderly shall enjoy safety and well-being, and all shall be assured to share in the material wealth that Iceland and the Icelandic nation can produce [...], to ensure the equality of all the people of the land, regardless of individual factors and positions, such as in other areas, and to cultivate the virtues that best ensure success and equality. This suggestion won't do that. It will not guarantee success and equality for the sake of some of them being so terrible that it will not change so much for them. They are so miserable. That's a big group. That doesn't mean pointing at any number. It's just a fact that there's a large group that almost starves in Iceland, that's a fact. I support this suggestion because it is a good step toward achieving success and equality in this country. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u315	A respectable president. How sad it is that we should be overcoming these issues in such a great deal of conflict! The contribution of the State to those who may be least allowed in the community - that it is not possible to settle matters in such a way as to make an effort. Remarkably, he is the nervous tremor in the hall, and here in side rooms because of this matter, indicating that there is not exactly a very good conscience when it comes to this matter. It is also noteworthy that the members of the board of directors are coming up here and debating that the others and these do not support the development of the Internet but then participate in such a process. It sucked to be in the cuts that had to take during the last term, heartrendingly pure. But now there have been five economic growth years in Iceland, a very positive year, a different situation. This is our money. This is what we're supposed to do. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u316	A respectable president. It is quite strange to hear the members of the council here, one after the other, talking about a search for micro-species and older citizens when it is being done to improve the potential of money. [[Up front.]] Of course, this is not to be compared with what the last government did. It must not even be mentioned. Here people come and say, " Nothing to talk about is a percentage. ' [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] All you want to talk about is crowns. [[The president calls.]] Well, how is the centennial comparison with what the last government offered in these matters? Then there's a special spokesman for the last government, okay? Senator Pirata, calling it a what. Senators, morons, they call it a what? Senators for not understanding that the last government has run a government fund with such an enormous balance that it cannot afford to meet those who are less fortunate. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] She spent so much money on other things that she could not afford to meet those less fortunate. [[The president calls.]] [Resurrection at the Assembly Hall.] Hv. A senator allows himself to claim that other senators are morons not getting it. This indicates that the location of this debate is during more than an increase, a greater increase than ever seen in recent years. [[The president calls.]] Even if it is paid after the New Year's Eve, it is being corrected again. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u317	Mr. President. I give the middle management of the ASI word: Despite the fact that all agreements that the state has agreed to include a reimbursement of pay on May 1. and the Council has raised the salary of the Generals and Ministers since March 1st, the government has refused to raise social security in a comparable manner, accounting for an increase in the lowest pay rate at May 1. At the same time, more part of the fiscal and tax committees contributes to a change in income taxation bill for financial ministers [...] that could reduce income taxation [a couple] that has over 1.4 million. K. every month up to 900 weeks. K. every year. This operation is estimated to cost a government budget of 3,500 million dollars. K. a year V.E.G. President. $3,500 million. K. is the cost of supporting our proposal in the smaller portion beyond the proposed administration. We can afford this. I say yes, and thereby reject the dreadful injustice of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u318	V.E.G. President. One of the main indicators is whether society is a community of welfare. Now we're voting on whether those in the old age range should get a pension that is comparable to those in the general labour market. The European Parliament, which is, in fact, an dissociative organization and labor union, has had the people of the United States investigated on these topics. It has made it clear that 95% of the country's population believe that the benefits of pensioners are to be increased to the same extent as in the general labour market. I agree with a majority of the people in this regard. That's why I say yes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u319	A respectable president. Advertisements and debates by the government's president reflect complete disorientation and the reality that Iceland's presidents will not be aware of the daily benefits of this government. In fact, the percentage and billions of people like these eat them at the end of the month. [[The point is, what, but not what?]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It's not like that. [[The president calls.]] They talk about better times, better times, better times, and growing up. What, though, are these better times for? What is this about? V.E.G. Minister Bjarni the son of Benediktsson, has an inspired speech here on what? That we can't go anywhere near the size of Iceland. The discussion was the hottest case of financial ministers. Where is the sense of justice and heat spoken of when it comes to the elderly and the desperate? No, then we should be balanced. Then let's be balanced. These people have reduced income and property taxes on big income and high-payers in the country, reduced resource taxes, and by surrendering the state's funds, these men, Sigmundur Davíð Gunulsson og Bjarni Bengort, have taken money from the elderly and the microegroves, and have moved to the richest people in the country. [[The president calls.]] Such is the social vision of this government. [[Up front.]] [[It's just a lie.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u320	President. Do I want elderly and poorer people to have the same quality as others in the country? ' Yes, I do. That's why I say yes to this change. Do I want to try to reduce a little bit of the indiscriminate bill this financial bill is? Yes, I do. That's why I also say yes to this change. Do I, a respectable president, want that in this society, peace and harmony between all generations? Yes, a respectable president. That's why I also say yes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u321	A respectable president. The conduct of the former governmental parties here in this vote is primarily a poor conscience. What an upset thing is here in a case. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, a bad conscience, explains how they classed these two groups during their last term. [[Up front.]] In fact, they forced into the basic benefits of social security, which is the sacred right of each individual. No, they're the people who did it. So shall the party of this proposal now, the party that is in charge of the city of Reykjavík, know what? They're taking the food from the old folks. A nursing home is not being built. The house is not being built. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] The house is not being built. These lawsuits... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The point is, where are the government's housing pioneers?]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u322	Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u323	These are local groups with the backing of the State. [[The president calls.]] There is nothing to be done for these city groups, and we know who is in charge of the city. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] When they are finally meeting these groups, the standard of living will be brought to them in full measure at 69 C.E. Then these former rulers cry out here, saying false and half true things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u324	President wants to ask why. Councilmen giving public speakers their full attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u325	A respectable president. Normally, I'd go to the President's conference board to do my case, but here's not a part of the program, so I'm gonna have to use this team to press charges. V.E.G. Prime Minister told me earlier that a senator named Pirata, he probably meant me, had called somebody in here a moron. That's not true. [[Up front.]] I explained, I thought very clearly that the difference between 50 and 25 is clear. The difference in circumstances, when 120 billion dollars. A tail is upon the treasure of the kingdom; it is clear according to the absence of a tail on the treasure of the kingdom. [[The president calls.]] Now I know the highest. Prime Minister understands for the same reason I know that everyone in this room understands this because there is no idiot in this room. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u326	A respectable president. The budget bill is suggested by the adjustment made by a greater proportion of legal committees in order to improve by 9.7%, or by 14.2 billion on January 1, 2016. There are also the increases in expenses due to change, such as setting priorities in reducing the decline that reformers were permitted in the past government. It was a rule that pension fund was reduced basic pensions, a financier's market for professional sensibilities, and disability were raised, the cost of pension was increased, the interaction of social insurance and pension funds agreements was extended, and then the decrease in income insurance, which was further reduced to 38.35% on January 1, 2014. With all of this, we'll see that on the bill we're adding an extra amount to social security of less than 27 billion. There's a big increase. I'd also like to use this opportunity and say, because we don't specifically vote for change in housing practices, for which there are no modifications to them, that we are also increasing significantly in what is involved in housing support to those who have the least of the hands, and that will, of course, help those who are getting their Social Security benefits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u327	A respectable president. We just finished paying votes to raise the cost of old and micro-energy pensioners and the amount of these joints ran into billions of dollars. The height of this adjustment is 20 million. However, there is a considerable rise in the multicultural site at the Ásafjörður. The mass institution is a very important institution. It is, in fact, the main agency today providing guidance, advice on individuals, institutions, rural partners and so on on on the affairs of immigrants, as well as responsibilities to monitor the reporting class and provide education to the general public. This is a group of paintings that have been left with us. It has really come down to the end of the money. Therefore, there is a proposal to make a quick contribution to the Agency's ability to meet its legal obligations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u328	A respectable president. Although I can't support this suggestion, I want to thank her for her positive thoughts about furthering the activities of the National Society. As we have seen, we have been adding a great deal to the challenge of greeting and serving people in the fields. So we've been thinking about how the Multicultural Centre can be especially supportive of rural society, so that although there is no final conclusion in this regard, we have been considering the possibility of increasing the operations of the Polyversity site so that it can be more supportive with rural society and hopefully it will be clear in the near future how it can be. But I don't think there's any reason to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u329	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity here and even if it's almost 10:00, and thank you especially for the contribution to the workforce. Business life is taking on a lot of weight. However, working conditions in the work department itself have not been good enough. This contribution will make a big difference in ensuring a better home, and especially, which I consider very important as the minister of another seminar class, the disabled will also have the possibility of getting into the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u330	Mr. President. As a national hospital, we talk a lot about the nature of the situation, but we must not forget our Great Hospital in Akureyri, who also needs more money. These include unacceptable facilities in mental - health departments. A report of the highest intensity has been reported. A health minister was given, I think on autumn days, to build up to solve the hospital crisis. I'm expecting the highest. A health minister quickly shows them a card and shows how he will handle it. They need to strengthen the hospital at Akureyri, and this is where the smaller part goes to 100 million. K. to deal with urgent need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u331	A respectable president. It is worth noting that there is a lot of discussion in the Land Hospital, which is the National Hospital, but there are, of course, medical institutions in the country, and there is a very important hospital in Akureyri. I know it's the highest. Ministers know it very well and understand it. I'm particularly worried about mental health because circumstances are not acceptable. There is also a need to implement new departments. I'm the highest. A minister to the admiration of these matters and members of the council to accept the new proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u332	V.E.G. President. It's uncomfortable to hear the chairman of a legal committee making fun of the biggest company in Iceland, but let's not be distracted by it. Mr. President. I say yes. In our smaller parts, we contribute to a land hospital's supply of less than 3 billion in order to meet the increased need for service, to be maintained because housing is damaged, and because of local labour contracts that are not fully improved by the hospital. We thus agree with the requirement of the hospital administrators who have called for extra money to work in accordance with the law. We in our memory want to ensure the safety of patients and the working conditions of the staff, so we do not want to believe that the greater proportion at the Council is going to be driven by the National Hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u333	A respectable president. This is one of the major issues that have been discussed primarily in the 2nd issue. About the budget bill. What I really feel is the importance of listening to the people who do the work. Listening and understanding the position of those who do their work When the director of the Land Hospital speaks, he is not a pressure force that uses spiritual violence. Then he is a man who leads the National Hospital in Iceland, who is actually a flagship of Icelandic health care. When people allow themselves to discuss his contribution in the discussion with such folly and arrogance, it reflects on how serious we are in Icelandic politics. Here we offer supplementary proposals to meet logical and clear the need for a Land Hospital of ◯ College Hospital in order to properly execute the Agency and to ensure the safety of patients and health care in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u334	The President just wants to say a good time. He wants to say it for what? Councilmen who explain their vote here will clearly report it in a clear way how they vote. The president now considers himself, in most cases, if not all cases, to be able to read in it. But in order to be correct, President is rather ill - treated with members of the council and votes for them by using a simple yes and no. It's just for kind reminders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u335	A respectable president. I say yes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] In order to receive more patients, the patients who are added because the nation is getting older, those in charge of a land hospital have to find an additional amount of money. Those who are in service contracts with the state, call it that, get money to receive more patients. So does the hospital. The hospital is in a ruined home, and it needs money to keep the place in place. The hospital believes that in order to ensure the safety of patients like those who serve there, he will need at least a further 3 billion. That's why I say yes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u336	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's trouble is that we should listen to the people who do the work. That is why I tend to listen to the head of the Ministry of Economic Affairs who calculates pay paid for every institution in Iceland - all the institutions in Iceland. [[Up in the hall: right.]] I'm not gonna make any less of those employees than the staff of the Lands Hospital in a U.S. university hospital. Other than that, I feel that the suggestions presented here are from the lesser part of the odor of populism, which is why I do not agree with them. [[These are the proposals of the Director of the Land Hospital.]] And although they have returned from the hospital director, I do not agree with them because they have been negotiated with this hospital and have made a substantial assessment of his activities and financial needs, and therefore I rejoice. [[Up front.]] But I say no to these suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u337	A respectable president. The request for the administration of a Land Hospital ◯ University hospital has been well supported and not driven in any way by the administrative sector. That's why it's normal to be treated. If you needed more support, Kári Stefánsson came to the aid of a fine newspaper article last week. As a result of the recommendations here given to the director of the Land Hospital, which followed the decision made by the chairman of the budget committee of the same person, I think that we are faced with the need to pay the inconveniences and benefits of government directors of public institutions who have to rely on the indistinguishable promises that these Member States feel are subject to the most prominent people in public institutions who are trying to lead a public service. They don't deserve to sit under this kind of trajectory. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u338	A respectable president. Rather, I find it unconcerned to accuse my parts here on plutonium when he is alone in repeating himself and trying to respond to the requests received from the medical and nursing community. A statement published by the Medical Council and the Board of Nurses of the Land Hospital, experienced by Arngrímsson and Guðríður K. Þórðardóttir, shows that there is no interference in the maintenance and renewal of the clinic and hospital facilities that have been neglected for years because of lack of financial resources and that the current bill does not guarantee that financial legislation is sufficiently expected for these important joints. So, are these people also Populists? Is everyone asking for more money to support our hospital? I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u339	President. Of course, I say yes to my own motion, i.e. suggest the memory of the part. I think it's incredibly sad, as I said earlier when I talked about other votes, because we're in good times, and it's happened, and the government is very proud to do this, but it's not responding to any emergency, neither with those who have an opportunity, nor with those who care for our sick and sick people. The situation is so bad that the place where the sufferer goes on to make people even weaker and those who are supposed to heal them. I avoid understanding how senators can use their consciences to burn and cremate inside the health system. There's got to be one reason. This government wants to privatize the whole health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u340	Mr. President. Sad to say, there is no more money in the Land Hospital than there is a witness on the part of much of it. This has been thoroughly explained that the director of the hospital offered thought - provoking suggestions that the hospital's government thought would need to be able to keep what was right by law. The payoffs are up to 400 million, and I'm impressed that there's so much between the Ministry's calculations and the Land Hospital. I don't understand it, and I don't know if these people have talked to each other to find out about it, unless the Ministry considers their calculations to be the right thing to do. This does not change the situation. We're losing people out of the country, who don't trust to work in the Agency. This is to be a university hospital that is to be received from medical graduates, works for an infant, and is not to be trusted to work in this hospital because the workplace is not adequate. [[The president calls.]] This is an unsurpassed, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u341	Mr. President. It is only natural that the Landspians are generally a high priority in discussing budgets, ending one of the most important organisations we share in. It is also reasonable to ask, " Why, at the same time that we have never put more crowns in the whole hospital business, should there be so much conflict about whether more money is needed? ' There is some answer in the growing population, and more are in need of nursing. This is also because in recent years, when we have been adding to the Land Hospital, we have highlighted the human resources there. That year, for example, began with the fact that doctors had general strikes, operating rooms being shut down. For the most part, the budget that has developed in 2015 for 2016 is used to improve the interest of the workers, and people are following right away, saying: We also have to get into the business - yes, yes, we'd like to get into the business as well, but we just can't do it all at once. [[The president calls.]] At least we have reached the point where we have come to the conclusion of the matter that everyone must be happy for in the long run, and we have never made better donations for the hospital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u342	A respectable president. It's a matter of priorities. This year, 15.5 billion fall into debt, just this year. There is a total of 3 billion in the national hospital that everyone should have access to, whether they have a financial mortgage or not. There's no money for that. It's the priorities of this government and it's intolerable. Conditions are totally unacceptable at the Hospital. The roof's falling apart in the Grensás department. There's mold in the hospital operating room. What's going on? So to obtain 30 million, because the words of the governor of the Land Hospital are not religious, they need 30 million in an analysis of whether they need money because they do not believe the words of their government official.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u343	It's a truth committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u344	It's a pain in the ass. Please insert these 30 million direct access to this hospital and improve further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u345	A respectable president. In the final budget of 2012, a debt paid by the Land Hospital was cut off because he had stood his own powder and improved his operating position. The hospital has again begun to collect debt. It's not that complicated. V.E.G. A minister either makes the contributions needed by the hospital or cuts down the business. It is not really an option for the business to get ahead of financial resources all the time. We agree on that. We're just adding money, so to speak. Three years from now, a minister doesn't have to get a second strike. We're realistic. I just don't think it's a good idea to keep talking about the fact that there's never been more money there. It may well be that it is just by some testimonials, but it is clearly not enough to do so. At the end of the last few years, your health will have to be restored. The question is, How do we put money first? Do we, then, place ourselves in a debt breakdown or in a health - care system? I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u346	A respectable president. I can't vote against this proposal. I believe that while there is a basis for researching the hospital business and seeing where it can be done better, if possible, it is beyond doubt that we need to add more, whether it is done in a way that puts us here to 2.8, or 3 billion, or something like that. The rest of the budget is 10 billion. There may be even more change when money comes from banks, so I think if we do something by the 3rd. I'll have to take a closer look. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u347	A respectable president. Since my involvement in politics, I have fought to set priorities for basic services, especially health care, and am pleased with what this government has done. It is not only in the hospital but also in the case of health care and nursing, and we are looking at very big projects ahead of us. I'm glad to hear it. During the last term, government opposers have woke up conscious of the importance of health care. But I have to admit that it sounds like a hollow chord when we consider priorities in surgery that had to take place during the last term. Hv. Council members of the United States and the left green Boy Scout, both proportional and in numbers, are most largely submerged in the health system. On the other hand, I'm happy if it's the way it is. When people talk about 30 million. K. to find out what the president of the Land Hospital says is absurd. He and the president of the Land Hospital agreed on the importance of going and examining these matters, for it would be irresponsible not to do so at regular intervals. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u348	A respectable president. There is no need to argue over the fact that the last government had to cut down on health care for very obvious reasons. In October 2008, certain things began to be taken into account in order to be spoken up in a mild way. There is no question about it. In recent years contributions to health care have been increased. Even so, it was after the massive surgery that had to be done. The question we face is: Is it enough to do? And then we have to look at things in the overall context and watch the bigger picture. We spend much less on health and hospital production than on Scandinavian nations. We'll protect investments in the interior from the second most important of all OECD countries. That's why houses are moldy. That's why the roofs are falling, because we don't spend money on it. As a ratio of 22% of the total budgets of the state are spent less than that of 2003, the health system is always more expensive and expensive because of changing ages and long-term cost, and the population is increasing in such a way that it has to be donated. Is that poopulism? No, this is simply the fact that we are face - to - face with the facts, the lack of 3 billion for the next year. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u349	A respectable president. It is only hope. Councilmen of the left green and Conspiracy settle it when it is spoken of populism in motions that appear to us in the discussions here today. That's all there is to hope. However, the venison arrangement provides good reason for the use of poopulism; the history of these classes tells us nothing else. During the cutoff period, the majority of the cases they speak most, the Environment Ministry and Health Ministry, were 7.3% and 8.5%, at the same time and much less cut off in other seminaries. That's the situation. And let's just jump over the fence and go to their home, where they've hired the past few years and hired today. Let's give this word to Björgvin Guðmundsson, their former city representative and deputy. He said that older citizens quit social activities because of the increase in currency; older citizens are drifting away from social activities. Then we can quote a Gallup survey. And what did it show? Reykjavíkurburg, of 19 rural communities where this was being investigated, receives the lowest level of all rural society's performances in the affairs of the elderly and the poor, in school affairs, and in this regard for long periods of time. Is it hope that this is what these same people, in the park where they are in control of everything, are not putting more emphasis on these classes than they really are? I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u350	Mr. President. This suggestion cannot be viewed as different from what is reasonable and normal. It has been supported by hospital presidents, demographics, collective agreements, and, of course, the need for maintenance that is clear to everyone. And it's kind of crazy to hear what you're talking about. The members of the board speak as if the local people were on the move. I haven't heard anyone contradict that argument. I say yes to the suggestion to meet the reasonable demands of the Hospital, to prevent future problems that will arise. Therefore, I support this suggestion, and I support our higher priorities in health matters, as the majority of the people have repeatedly expressed their will. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u351	A respectable president. I thought most politicians were on the verge that there would be more money to go to the Land Hospital. Then a man comes here and hears members of the members of the administrations declare that those who claim to be Populists and that there's plenty to do. A respectable president. This is quite remarkable when we all know that there are a number of people who can take action, that is to say, "How many can get life - saving medicines. ' We all know the reality that the hospital needs extra money, and then people sit here and claim that the people talking about it are the Populists. I'll ask the council members in this room, and I'm going to vote carefully to see if they're not ready to accompany us in the process of disqualifying the number of people who can take important action, cancel the number of people who can receive the necessary medication. [[The president calls.]] That is the reality we enjoy today. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we get out of here instead of standing here with a mistake to those who point out this? I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u352	A respectable president. I say no to this suggestion. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson is asking, is there enough to do? Of course, there is more to be done. There is a lack of money in many Icelandic health - care systems, not only the Land Hospital as mentioned here but also in health care, in aging services, in pharmaceuticals, etc. In recent years, we have set our priorities for health care. Congress has set priorities in this way. Reduction of government expenses was necessary during and after the collapse. I think we all agree on that. I think we would also agree that we were going too far in surgery in the medical system, but we must also realize that it will take time to work through that deck, no matter how humans grin at it, or what it takes. Senator. It takes time. We can't resolve this with one of our hands and priorities, although it was only a reminder of the discussion in the correct year in this room, the most important priorities in health care, it was to secure the system with new collective agreements. [[The president calls.]] It was done. [[Forbidden it.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u353	V.E.G. President. Here, the less part makes a suggestion for further funding to the hospital, including the hospital. 1,400 million. K., as the Landspians say we need, for maintenance and new projects. May I remind the council that at the Land Hospital, a university hospital, the National Hospital of the Icelanders, molds and molds have been identified? May I remind you that the Grensás department doesn't use water? That's 1,040 million. K. to meet the annual increase and demand, that's 400 million. K. to continue building tools, and there are 400 million missing. K. to meet the cost of a new labour contract by doctors at the highest level. A financial minister did on behalf of the state's funds because this amount is illegal to finance, and it is said, in fact, in the majority of the articles on the budget and the proposals of much of it. Our national hospital needs to be treated better, and this proposal is in that direction. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we are to unite in making it right to him. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u354	Mr. President. I say yes. The land hospital has encountered a great lack of understanding on the part of the government, and it is tragic that when it comes to a call from our national hospital and the staff working there, when the hospital director accounts for the serious state of the Land Hospital, it is left in a light bed. That's a serious situation. We've had enough money for maintenance and business, and we've seen it in television news that there's sleek roofs and all places of shame, mushrooms, and gods. And this is our high-tech hospital for Icelanders where we want to be a good, secure service. Iceland and I are lower in the list of health - care contributions and the construction of health care providers. We are second - largest in the OECD countries between Greece and Mexico. [[The president calls.]] Is that where this nation wants to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u355	Mr. President. The nation is getting older, and there is a greater number of older citizens, and this is a joyful experience. In the blues, it's a top priority. Governments to reduce income taxes to those well qualified. A reduction in income taxes during 2016 costs 5.5 billion dollars. To meet the growing number of patients at the Land Hospital costs well over a billion. It is the government's priority to reduce income taxes to those of good standing, but it requires that the Land Hospital cut down a billion because we can't afford it, this rich nation in blues, to expect an increase in the number of older citizens who need to take advantage of the service of the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u356	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of health stands here personally in the speaker's seat, saying no to add more than two billion dollars. Inland Hospital, however, we admit that there is more to be done. It's interesting to hear how much you're doing. The health minister is on the National Hospital, this flagship of the Icelandic Health Organization. Is there money? Yeah. That's 10 billion bucks. leftovers at the state fund. It takes 3 billion to grant the wishes of the Land Hospital for the greatest improvements. But this cannot be done; the hospital cannot be bought with credibles, and it is called people's fields of government. At the same time, hundreds of people are waiting for heart surgery, and these procedures have already taken place. People wait for up to three years to be hurt after replacement surgery, and it is patient abuse of life - saving drugs, such as cancer and blindness. [[The president calls.]] It's not really possible, and of course I'm saying yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u357	A respectable president. There are some of the most important quality of life that can be considered secure by being able to rely on a good and powerful health system, and Iceland and I are happily used to trusting our health and staff there. After the difficult cuts we have had to see after a crash, it is of utmost importance to keep building these institutions up and do so quickly. It's not enough to hold back and wait and hope the mold disappear or we'll find out about it sometime later. This suggestion does not require that the hospital be gold-coated or everything be brought up to some stupid class. We are simply suggesting to meet the minimum proposed proposals made by the hospital managers who set the first step in bringing us up from the bottom that other members of Congress have mentioned about our contribution to health as we are secondmost on the list of OECDs. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u358	A respectable president. It is quite unlikely that the fine senators, my fellow members of a smaller section of the budget who have already set Iceland record to be shocked in the larger part where we met the needs of 42 members who came to visit, but their representatives have called on their basic needs and there we have been helping with a relatively small amount of money - the same people are coming here and expecting us to be sent out at less than 3 billion, so that they are called by the Director of the Country Hospital. Is there anything abnormal about it, even though we want more information, we'd like to look into it further? We just want more information and diagnostics at the hospital. [[Up front.]] As we examine the matter further, are we putting 50 billion people in the hospital? Then we'll take it then. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u359	A respectable president. What's sad about this is that I think everyone realizes that, as we've seen in the case of many government leaders, there's a need for more money in the Land Hospital. You see, the injured and the sick need to be treated as soon as the Landspians need immediate attention. However, it refers to populism when people want to meet them calling the hospital's operators for the money they don't have. I wonder what the situation will be after a year when people in the management team come here with money and make themselves holy in front, in election winter, and then have suddenly come up with an enormous understanding of the need to put money on all kinds of projects. Of course, everyone sees that there's been a good round of campaign halls for the next winter. They're polishing shovels for shovels and sharpening scissors for ribbon cutters. It's obvious, but it's sad that it's done with the Land Hospital. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u360	V.E.G. President. I now express my satisfaction that this team has a total of 1.1 billion people in hospital. There's a suggestion for about 840 million. K. budget for the next three years because of the efforts to shorten the waiting list for cataract surgery, knee-joint surgery, hip prosthetic surgery and coronary artery catheters. In addition, some 280 million people are being suggested. K. temporary financial permission to address the costs of study treatment projects for hepatitis C. The campaign will last three years, and the government has agreed to suggest that 280 million be paid. K. for 2015 and 2016 and 150 million. K. due to the year 2017 to cover the domestic costs caused by blood tests, reporting and other services related to patient management. It's well done, and I'm happy to do it. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u361	V.E.G. President. In the United States, we welcome this addition to stand up to our lists and we will support this proposal. In fact, waiting lists were already extending as the number of relapses in the health system, which lasted for nearly a year in different populations. The government was able to be at war with virtually all health - care classes of the country in the present year and year before, and this is an essential contribution to working in the currently created lists. We hope this is enough to make sure that people receive health care within acceptable limits in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u362	A respectable president. As has been noted so many times, the government has a top priority on health matters. It is a pleasure to have the government voted by these national contracts. These suggestions go beyond the pressures of land hospitals. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir went over. Within this table is also the grand agreement the country made in the fall to eliminate hepatitis C in Iceland, which saves the country enormous amounts of money, not to mention the quality of life that is created by the people who have this disease. It is a pleasure to have agreed on one suggestion and to see that the motion has just turned into health issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u363	A respectable president. I appreciate the support we have on this proposal. This shows that certain good things are compatible. It is clear that there is a first step toward working down a waiting list that gathered up in the strike. The majority of this funds will remain undiminished to the Land Hospital to work on certain items, and to some extent the wishes the National Hospital has placed on the table for the council. I thank the staff of the Land Hospital through the effort to carry out this task, which is designed to attempt to wipe out hepatitis C. I also thank the Congress for its support, for this is a task that would not have been done without these members getting along on that issue. Here's 280 million. K. The budget for the work to be done on a global scale will be a global example. As we discuss the medical system, let us thank Jehovah and remember that there are also many good things to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u364	A respectable president. As mentioned here, we vote for a change in proposal, which is about supporting rural society in the emigrant council and the hosting of refugees. It is a suggestion that we should agree on. It is thus designed to help us fulfill this vital task with dignity to receive more trustrs and refugees who are having trouble in their lands, as well as to cultivate more human beings and greater awareness of the importance of understanding and human kindness in our good society. I would have expected to see more support for this suggestion, I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u365	V.E.G. President. We make it a point to increase contributions to the presence of refugees and support to our rural communities. In the fall of this year, in the smaller part, we proposed three years of Iceland versus 500 refugees. The government brought in a game, and they didn't want to talk about a lot of refugees. Now there are about 55 people coming to the country from New Year's Eve, and we're very happy, but we want to receive a lot more, and we're going to make this additional contribution to the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u366	A respectable president. I come up here especially to celebrate the c-team 86, add up to 64 million. K. ... toa numberofprojections of the Ministry of Health. In that room, the ART is the one that gets 30 million. K. plus other projects and partnerships, 20 million. K. ... toSillhelp,ServiceCat 5 million. Make it five million. K. etc. ART has been operating in the Southland for several years with very good results. Those who have taken that assignment have not had to lie down in Pediatrics. I've heard the figure that the admissions dropped from ten to one. The work has been done in many parts of the world, and it has now begun in many parts of the earth. It's a good example that we're putting money on something that's giving us back a lot of money, so I'm in particular celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u367	V.E.G. President. Here we are voted to remedy the housing issues of mental - health people. Sadly, the situation is that people cannot graduate, e.g. From the mental ward of the Land Hospital because they need a place to live. Of course, this is of utmost importance because the basis for being a member of a community is to have a home, and that's why I support this proposal and I really hope, in fact, it doesn't look too good, that it will have a career. I am confident that this case would not only improve the situation of those who were depressed but would actually be a member of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u368	V.E.G. President. In the fall, the highest took place. Healthcare Ministers implement a health plan, a mental health care programme until four years. Although many people want more, this plan has been very well taken care of by sources who end up in desperate need of money to the jury. There is a budget for this programme at the same time as the Senate arrangement, but there is a need for financial support for one of its members, which is just a population-infested population. So we propose the missing amount of 33.1 billion. K. to support and cooperate with the rural communities in that those who graduate from the National Hospital and who need special support for their home will receive it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u369	A respectable president. I'm up here to celebrate especially the 88s, i.e. 75 million. K. in addition to the management of aging institutions. This is an increase in money for my nursing home in many parts of the country. As we know, there's no room for nurses all over the country. The best units are that I think I have 30 or more spaces. Nevertheless, we do not want people moving hundreds of miles, so it is very important that we care for my nursing business throughout the country. So it's very good to see this number here, this addition. The total altitude today is 436 million. K. which is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u370	Mr. President. This is 70 billion. K. to pay rents at three new clinics in the capital area for eight months. The first suggestions we received on a financial committee were followed by an explanation, a way to run a business at new clinics, and, in fact, to increase the availability of patients to them. I never realized how it would go together, but it's different. When the proposal comes in, the committee's opinion has issued this phrase that it stands to offer out health care in the capital area. Then there's the highest. Economic and economic ministers in an interview in a supernova where he says it's true and he's supporting it. We've been calling in the talk since we got here. A health minister to review this with us and to undergo the change in policy if he or she is to be even more involved in private business in the health system than he has to pay for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u371	V.E.G. President. I wanted to start with something personal. I wanted to offer our best, but I'd like to offer us the most reserved. A health minister welcomes to the council, including discussing this point as a matter of course. þm. Oddný Hardydóttir has been well aware of. [[Thank you so much.]] We asked many times for the highest power. Minister of health for this discussion. The minister appeared on television and whispered that the people were prepared to discuss this matter at the General Assembly, that if the general mind was available, the financial support of a patient. We were thinking, who he was, and we wished for a minister to come to the meeting, but he did not. That seems completely unacceptable to me. You're right. You're right. A minister said that there was too much room for health during the last term, but that is wrong. þm. Gudle Viðr Þór and what. þm. This is what Jón Gunnarsson claimed, that health care had been cut relatively more than for other factors. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to say I'm celebrating one thing, I'm happy with one thing: I'm glad to see you through 3rd. The budget bill is still behind us. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u372	President still wants to ask him why. Congress officials show respect for the members of Congress who recognize their votes that they are allowed to talk and also that at the end of the talk, they are allowed to talk and that their appearances are at least over. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The President's not asking for more for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u373	V.E.G. President. Some 85% of the country's population want health care to be primarily in public business, but the members of this hall are supporting the highest level of government. A health minister in starting to privatize the health care of the capital area without any discussion at the General Assembly. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Take it up, Bull.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u374	No privatization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u375	Those wanting to privatize the Icelandic health system are to have the resources in them to come and discuss it at the council. [[Up front.]] Personalization is taking place. This can be done without bringing the case before the Council and the Supreme Court. The government of Independence Class and Superintendent has no civility to discuss it with us here at the council, knowing that it is in opposition to the common people's will. [[To the point: This is wrong.]] [[Set up the Conspiracy and the Independence Party.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u376	The president now wanted to approach with great modesty in praying. Senators on privacy and only insisted that this be done at first hour. Senators have finished their case. So the president wants to start by saying what to do and what to do. Congress officials are unable to take together about one step at a time in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u377	V.E.G. President. I'm glad we're making a good contribution to the clinics, both in the capital area and on national level. Health clinics and health care programs are being provided as the first stop for patients, including to ease the stress of our important and large national hospital, which the Landsaholic is at a university hospital. These suggestions, for example, indicate that some 100 million is proposed. K. temporary contributions to health care centres that will be divided according to the Minister's decision. At the same time, I have to say that the proposal is about 20 million. K. a donation to increase the number of rests we have at the Western Institute of Health in Hampstanga, where space is increased by three and standards by three which are of utmost importance to that institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u378	A respectable president. I come up here for the number 96 and 97 because this is part of the agreement that has been reached regarding the translocation of disabled people to the rural community. When the group of paints crossed over, they did not conclude on the business of disabled people, but now there is a petition on the business issue. It is thought that a work agency will take over and be responsible for keeping an eye on the business of everyone here in the community, the rapist and the disabled. The proposal goes on to deliver the funds that have so far been made by an insurance agency to the labour agency for financing work contracts. But there will also be suggestions between 2 and 3. ... inthiscontraction. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank you very much for the great cooperation and the much work that has been done about the transfer and we'll probably have a chance, as we've already said, to discuss it further, hopefully to some extent at 3. Um, but that's part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u379	V.E.G. President. First, I'm sorry that the President's conference board cannot be set up, because then I would come and thank the President for his high control and carefulness in this long and difficult vote. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] We in the smaller part put 1.7 billion in the maternity den so that the roof can be raised to 500 of you. K. That's equal to 80% of the average income in the country, but if the greater part rejects our proposal, he's making a decision to leave his birthal profits unchanged in three almanac years. It's completely unpleasant, and Iceland's baby families can't be left on cold ice right now when the economy is making a difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u380	Mr. President. This adjustment in the memory of the part is about investment to the future. The birth - stock system is extremely important for the future to encourage children to have children and to make sure that they can care for their children in the first few months. Like what? A senator mentioned earlier encouraged me. Senators of the Management Board to vote for that proposal. Sadly, it is not happening, and the result is so sad that this money does not change, so this is not the future. This is not investing in the future and the systems we could have been proud of living in Iceland. I'll say yes to the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u381	A respectable president. It's a little strange and actually a mystery why such a bad thing has happened to the birthworm system. I would have thought that it was a completely parapolitic union to build up and to have a good birth Ororal system. Now the situation is that this system is falling apart. The roof is too low, and the payments are too low, so people, especially fathers, hold back from taking birthworm, not having a full birthworm at all, and bridges have to cover the gap between maternity and high school. This was to be done by extending the ore that had been abandoned. It is strange to be unable to take these steps because the birthworm system is funded by a percentage of insurance costs, and it should be very easy to form an agreement between the government and the labour market to have this ratio simply high enough to finance a proper system. But what did the government do? One of her first jobs was to step into it, to cut down the prolongation of the hysteria, and to reduce the percentage of stocks of insurance fees, and to take it and put it into public business. [[The president calls.]] The government actually brought money into this fund, thus weighing it. Of course, you need to unwind this and build a proper fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u382	A respectable president. I know it's somebody's job to recall the last terms, but I remember a lot when we extemporanists repeatedly added funds to the stocks' reserves. We fought that the fund would be set up, and we succeeded. Of course, we will protect this fund, for it is important. It can be added, and it can be done better, of course. That's what we all want to do. Today, though, an increase of 360 million is being made up. K. and that's really good work. [[Up front.]] Then let us try to do better for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u383	V.E.G. President. Mostly, I come up here because of the help we have on rented apartments. I would generally like to see the more than 1.5 billion in the effort today. This is part of the 2,300 apartments that will be built over the next four years, and these are the first steps in several hundred apartments planned to build next year for smaller tenants. This is of utmost importance because of the rent - rent needs. So it's a good job and a good job, and it's a government and a government thing to do. Ministry of well - being for the important steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u384	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter, Elsa, for what she said before me. She joined the same team, No. 100, which I had planned to mention. I would like to mention that there was an excellent proposal from my section, No. 30, regarding facilities and services for mental - health people. The reason why I thought it was right to refuse the suggestion is that the thought of the new social service system is also thought of by mentally dressed individuals in that system, of course. It is part of the agreement we have reached with our rural society that disabled persons enter the same system for support and that a special system will not be created so that we will continue to work to ensure that there is no separate separation when it comes to disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u385	Mr. President. This is where we're talking about child repairs not cutting up until you've reached 270. K. in 2016, but 270 you. K. are, as I said before, the lowest pay since May 1st, 2016 for the VR and the Flea Coalition. The proposal for child development is expected to be limited to 200 of you. K. a month's pay and is severely cruel thereafter, so that those with 500 you have. K. or more will not get children's compensation. Children's status is not tied down by the child's reforms in this form. We're here to correct the problem, raise the decline by 70 of you. K. so that at least those who have the lowest salary in 2016 will get non-successment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u386	For what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u387	A respectable president. It's like the roof of the maternity room that the government doesn't have a merit standard. It's important. Therefore, we hereby recommend that they have general pay development, and in the case of the child reforms, they will not start cutting off until 270 of you. K. It has been amazing to have a discussion here at the council Hall with the executives in the handling of this case. It's like the board doesn't understand the nature of child reform. Child damages are not biographies for low - income professionals. Of course, all Western democracies are used to balance the situation between children and non - children. They should go to people even if they have moderate income or even moderate income. It's not a minimum wage settlement. There is a fundamental mental problem here, and a ideological illuminating on the board of directors to weaken the child reform system, weaken the birthworm, weaken the growth improvements, and transform all these support systems into subsidies. [[The president calls.]] We'll see suggestions on what has been ordered from the International Cash Fund. This is a fundamental change in the Icelandic welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u388	Mr. President. We're talking about a child's record at 270 you're talking about. K. before you are affected, but not 200 you. K. Like what? The last senator said it wasn't a minimum compensation. Children's benefits are designed to support and strengthen their children's families. There are probably a lot of people in here who have small children and who have had small children, knowing that there are considerable costs of having small children. There are preschoolers and other expensive items. Children's compensation is primarily to support people, it's not a minimum wage. It is not acceptable that child damages by 200 yards. K. And I agree with that. A senator said that it is as if the administrative part had not realized what the matter is, and that is what we have been living in the discussion when these matters have been discussed. [[The president calls.]] It is similar with this proposal and other suggestions from my section; although we are going to accept one suggestion from the greater part, he cannot see the power to accept one of our suggestions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u389	A respectable president. Together, the actions of this government are close to the country's children's families becoming quite numerous. The pedophiles are actually reduced, the interest rates are impaired, the maternity is kept low, the food tax is up, and this is how I can continue for a long time. At the same time, the children in the country have the highest financial burden, the highest interest costs, and the high cost for their children's school and school. I would have thought that we could get together on it here to let at least the criteria in these systems apply to prices and pay development. By not doing so, you make a decision to weaken these systems. It has been a wet dream of independence for a long time, and now the candidates are helping to undermine all musculoskeletal systems in the country's children.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u390	Mr. President. That's where the government says it's going to add to this suit, child support. Today it is very difficult for young families to start homes and put roofs over their heads when the government damages child care at 200 yous. Mr. K., there are also reductions at the birth Oralfs Fund, and in fact, the government does nothing in what is yet to improve the potential of young people to get a roof over their heads or to rent a fair price. It is absolutely minimal that child damage will not be impaired until at least according to the minimum wage next year, 270 fars. K. And out on that goes our proposal for government opposition. But support for young people who are establishing homes, children's people, is not great on this government. No wonder many young people are fleeing the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u391	A respectable president. It is said that the government groups do not understand the exchange of benefits and pay. It is quite mistaken that the relief groups, the Conspiracies, and the left greens, who were in charge in the last term, and who emptied more and less all of this savings fund, are now hammering that the government is supposed to put in more money. It's a good way to work, a respectable president, these income-related benefits, such as interest settlements, mortgages, child support... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Fortunately... [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u392	Hv. There's been a senator. The president has repeatedly requested that members of the council account their votes and have it available for one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u393	Happily, the government's spending is reducing rapidly to these budgets because income has increased so much in society and is mainly affected from the top rather than below. [[The president calls.]] That's all the misunderstanding the so - called reformers in the country are talking about being with us. [[Up front.]] It's all income-related. [[Up front.]] Why are some parents who earn a large amount of money getting pedophiles from the State? [[The president calls.]] What's with all this shit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u394	President. I find it amazing to hear that the chairman of a financial committee directly says that the country should not be supported by family members. Not to have child reforms or interest improvements. I just don't think it's amazing to hear that kind of language. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I just have to say, when the chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, looks at those with 270 you. K. a month's earnings are high-payers, perhaps a senator should think only his or her own course. Such pay is considered to be a high income. I think it's very bad to hear that it's the forward party's attitude, because it's clear that there's no difference now between the forward party and the Independence Party. We only have one Independence Party at the council. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u395	A respectable president. I miss this list that there's no school there called the Souths' Fish Technology School. I want to believe that he just forgot that there are similar schools on this list. I expect that and trust that it will be corrected for 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u396	A respectable president. This suggests that funding is added to a climate fund to enable us to meet Iceland's commitments and enable Iceland to contribute to the climate crisis to a normal share. This is an important task, especially in the light of the recent UN Climate Conference. We have heard beautiful words on the part of the government, but we have not been able to accomplish much. It is assumed that funds will be provided for serious activities in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u397	A respectable president. With this adjustment proposal, the smaller item proposes about 200 million. K. in a climate fund, which is available under the legislation on climate control. Climate Fund is aimed at meeting companies and organisations who are interested in working on climate - changing development. This is technology and development projects that support the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This is of utmost importance, and it was the unanimous opinion of those who completed the Paris climate contract that technological advances in reducing greenhouse gas emissions were key in these materials. I'm waiting for the highest. A minister and a respectable body of Congress to reconsider their position on this matter because it is a very important step toward achieving our goals that should, of course, be reducing emissions by 40% just in Iceland, because otherwise it works as the highest level. Government and supreme. Environment Ministers say in foreign lands like the words are empty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is absolutely the key to the fact that Iceland can live up to its name as an environmental nation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u398	Madam President. That's a good suggestion we've got here. What a joy it was to reach a decision in Paris, and those who are pleased with the conclusions and who observe in these matters will observe the objective of the government in these matters because of the lack of considerable importance! There is a great willingness in the public and in the commercial world to do well in these areas, to achieve real goals and actions. So, of course, the majority are to support this proposal and show that there are real ills behind the government's words in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u399	A respectable president. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are here talking about climate change, putting some 400 million more into this team, which has been divided into a number of projects, especially in forestry and agriculture, and because these were talking about climates, these teams are adding together: increasing deforestation and agriculture, this is a business structure, resource, and, of course, it's amazing also about the climate that both land supply and forestry bind the natural carbon. I also call attention to the fact that this is part of a variety of projects, the contribution of the Environment and Resource Ministry, and there's research, and there's something else about climate operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u400	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this overview, but it's natural, so if Iceland is to take real steps in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, it has to happen first: we're going to have to lose all of our plans for further pollution-infested industry in Iceland. We have to cancel all plans to add to that kind of work structure in Iceland. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] All of us must plan for such building projects to develop in Skavetir as high as possible. The prime minister has been photographed. [[The president calls.]] We have to head for Iceland's non-carbon object in 2050. That's what countries around us are doing. It's not just carbon binding. It also means reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and there we need to be much more courageous than we are here, talking about something people trust to talk about as plans, programs that are 16 related to the project list, and no one to monitor the progress of the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is not an ambitious climate policy for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u401	A respectable president. I want to celebrate. I want to agree with the highest. Environment Minister. Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, that Iceland has an ambitious plan for these matters. And not only that, it is a positive change to see from the current environmental minister that it is also a very practitious thought. The work we have here is that they link the job life with the thought of binding the carbon, and that is the prachian we need to see and lack quite significantly during the last term. What a joy it is, and how Sigrún Magnúsdóttir has handled these matters! I would like to congratulate everyone on the conclusion reached in Paris and especially at the highest level. Environment Minister for the suggestions we see in the budget bill, the practitioner's practitioner and the change from the last term in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u402	V.E.G. President. I think there's every reason to start wishing to the highest. The secretary of the Environment and Resources to congratulate you on the agreement that was reached in Paris, and then I must also say that I was particularly pleased when I looked on the page. Thirty-nine and the team that get extra money there. It's all very important projects and I can't describe how important they are to other aspects of our community. These include the appearance of nature, one of the main markets in today's tourism, and there is a splendid addition here to the land's land - healing work that has been done with good projects, such as Farmers'making up the country with more than a thousand acres [1,000 ha] of land transplants each year. I welcome this whole page a tremendous host of environmentally designed pages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u403	A respectable president. First of all, I want to congratulate everyone and the Icelanders on the success that came in Paris. I think we can be proud of Iceland's conduct. There were many noteworthy events and proved that Iceland is the first among nations when it comes to environmental matters. I also welcome the added environmental benefits. It is being added to forestry, land - healing, and, above all, to the plant that is very important in many parts of the country. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we should all be proud of this, and I'm sorry that the government doesn't support us and be on the green button because it's something we should agree on and agree on, like we were on nature protection Act.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u404	Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to this article on the interest rate of the state's budget that they were reduced to the substantial bill of 7.3 billion dollars. Because stability is expected to produce up to 170 billion, including new ones, to pay off the posts of the Secret Bank bonds. This reduces the cost of growth. However, these 140 billion are not shown to be a contribution to the loan, which, of course, needs to be done. We received this information on a financial committee when we were asking about this that since it had not been decided whether it should be made up for financial aid or money or how it would go down, it would not be shown in any other way. Of course, we must show the budget in the books of state funds. It is not enough just to show a lower cost of interest, so I expect that we will be received and that we will need to take up a discussion about all these billions of dollars between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u405	A respectable president. We vote on the government's debt collapses. In the past, I admitted to the highest. Health Ministers that health care is not enough. No, the money is simply used for another. They are used in a debt crisis that we in the short future have always been opposed. We believe this is an unremarkable operation and the money would have been better spent in the building of the welfare community. But that's just the way it is. It is a huge campaign promise by men, which was totally at the expense of taxpayers in the country. [[Step number two, stand by.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] Even if I had more people on the red button, this money has already been spent, so it may be more symbolic, but I will not tire of coming up here and describing the opposition to this mess and springing with public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u406	Mr. President. There are two things I would like to draw attention to with regard to this point in the budget bill. First, we have saved many billions by hastening the successful action of the government. This has saved us interest costs, and we could have put more money directly into the homes' mortgages, the prices we've always intended to deal with. The rest, I'm going to point out here in a vote, what's on page 6. 8 In a follow-up with the budget bill, which says that the debt of the homes that had become quite special and a problem in the middle of a crash has become the largest in history, now a couple living in 2004. The domestic debt has become comparable to that of over ten years ago. [[Up front.]] This illustrates the tremendous success of being reached by debt corrections for the households, which, as a result, have returned to active citizens in the economy. [[The president calls.]] The family and the home are society's building blocks, and it is seen by increasing private consumption and more active in the interests of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u407	Mr. President. There's a crystal clear example, I think, of short-term thinking, aimlessness and snooping style. ... management. It has just adopted a policy for the National Library and publish it online, and it works with the highest power. Minister of Education and Culture where it says the museum should be at 254. Recycling is being reassigned and reassigned. A greater proportion of the legal committees then think it would be a good idea to use this facility for a hotel because it is in such a good place in town. This describes a great lack of understanding of the important collection to be available to the public for the administrations and for the educational community, and it needs to be central to them. It's only supposed to be where it is and to follow the new policy but not to think about it, because now there are so many tourists, that they will only sell the National Archives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u408	A respectable president. I believe it is proper to draw attention to the fact that this is a source, not a planned decision or a duty to sell. In fact, I believe that before looking for a warrant like this, there should have been a cost-and-suspect analysis of these transports. But I believe there is no harm to this article. Of course, it is hardly possible to operate in such an operation unless there is a possibility that the site could be acquired to such an extent that it would be sufficient to build a new national library and to deliver the information currently available in the National Archives library in a new home. This is no complex account, but it needs to be available, and its results need to be beneficial for government funds before taking advantage of the authority given here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u409	President. I've lived around the world. I don't remember living anywhere but in Iceland where things are so round as here. Some hasty decisions are made in order to get immediate increase because of conditions today instead of looking forward to the future. A new program with the National Library is adopted, and then suddenly it is decided that the place is suitable for hotels. I'd like to inform the majority of the council that there's plenty of housing being built as a hotel. At some point it will be, so such a need for such a home will not be so great. I find it extremely important that although the National Archives is not the proper housing, it's in a good place. If plans have not been made and plans have not been made, for example, to put it in a rented house, that is a misbehavior. [[The president calls.]] I certainly hope that if this is what we're going to do, the museum will have its own place, but it will not be put in a rented house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u410	Mr. President. It has been observed in the discussion that the cost analysis behind this idea is not even available. I get it so that this is a major part of bringing in such a variety of ideas, because it's an authority, without any policy being behind it, without the fact that the cost of analysis is behind it. I don't like this kind of work. It is a marvelous project to transport the National Archives of Iceland. I've seen in the past years the ideas of a new building for the National Archives of Iceland. There were no little ideas, Mr. President. I feel that it is irresponsible to present such ideas as these, neglected, unexamined, and excusable by means of a report. I'm surprised to see the highest. Minister and minister. The members of the greater part vote with this despite giving reasons for the opposite here just before. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u411	A respectable president. It is now a misunderstanding that people have never discussed the National Archives and its facilities here. General, this old dairy farm. It's been done in trouble. The Board of Education and Education, and before and again at the Ministry of Education because the house was not suitable and documents were damaged. In the winter, we were putting several hundred million in repairs on the house. I hope it's over, but given the information I have, it's a long way off. The result is that an old dairy farm may not work very well for a public archive. Actually, that's the way it is, because of what it is. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir came here, to the left green, as far as I know, at least the United States, has approved it in Reykjavíkurburg to go looking for this area. I don't know why they only talk about hotels because there's a lot of other stuff to do. Happily, our city is benefiting from the visit of more and more people. Some talk that the affairs of Reykjavík are not addressed here at any time. General. I think some of the talks that were here gave that signal. But like the highest. Minister said, it's just a warrant. [[The president calls.]] I believe, however, that this should be seriously examined, both seriously by the interests of the great museum there, as well as by our city, the capital city of Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] I think it's all right from time to time that we take only care of her, a respectable president. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u412	V.E.G. President. I want to come in on number 2, that's a new number 6. ... to allow the Earth's Fund to sell unreached land for use in order to get it ready or to use it in a different way. I'm very happy to see that this is finally a place for us to try to get these things into use, thus making money in the state's budget. But I have to propose for the 3rd. will be examined to allow the Earth's funds to sell or rent the land, for if this is to be done to use the earth, there are cases of extreme prices in the earth. I would also suggest a sort of prenupture, if possible, into the organization. It would require that the Department of Economics be assigned to a project with the Ministry of Agriculture and try to develop some kind of plan on how to get these things out into the best use of the earth, since it is very difficult to place land that is intended for agriculture into an excel document.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u413	A respectable president. So to say, here's a proposal, section 2.16, which hasn't been measured yet so clearly, we're thinking of our city. It tells itself that it would be most desirable if we saw some other picture of the work in the town hall, such as shopping, not the activity there today. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I think it should be taken seriously. It's not default... [[The president calls.]] It is not default for a respectable president to have a number of tourists here. [[The point is, are you a filibuster?]] Those of us who have been scattered around like a dog. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's beloved son, who has gone abroad, knows that the most popular cities are the most organized cities, and especially those that have fun centres. That's what we're supposed to do here. The General and that's why we're supposed to give this warrant, and I'm proud to say it. Minister to take a real look at this. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u414	V.E.G. President. I'd like to reiterate earlier opposition to the government's sale at the Lands Bank. In the left movement, we are very strongly accompanied by the fact that the Land Bank is to be in public property and is to be found in one language with both force. The chairman of the Council's Economic and Business Committee, Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, and the pope who has spoken of the withdrawal of part of the banking system into such a channel, as a community property, a community bank. We reroute our opposition to this government plan. For various reasons, they are unwise. Even if they wanted to sell, it's a bad time for that. Then there's the other thing: We're not supposed to sell. We're supposed to have this together in the financial system of the public property.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u415	A respectable president. This was an outstanding explanation because this is an extension of a provision that has been legalized since 2011. Since the time of the former government, was inside last year and is now inside. I reiterate it, as previously stated to the 6th floor. Money is an article. There is no stipulation to go to what is permitted, to buy, to sell, to rent, or to anything. [[The president calls.]] It's an article. I encourage members of Congress to accept this, even though members of the government's stand are trying to stir up a little dust.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u416	A respectable president. We in the United States have long assumed that an article of this nature is under financial control. But this time we oppose it for the simple reason that there is no confidence that this government can sell property on banks. [[For example, the bank is not given to the demanding crew.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] A recent poll illustrates this very well. It is only one fifth of the nation's trust in the board of directors to take a bank sale. There has been a great deal of relief by this means of the government, vague channels, and we were now dealing with the highest. Our secretary of finance for a long time in his determined attempt to destroy the state's Bankiscation. What a blessing he has seen in it! There is good reason to stay now, to take the position, as both administration groups have said to do, and the forward party has specifically opposed it, in the final council, that the Lands Bank is sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u417	A respectable president. This is serious. If political power violates its own suggestion because there is a new poll, it says all that has to be said about that political power. If, as I hope, we all want to make sure that this is a trust behind this sale, we'll work together to do it. V.E.G. A minister has often considered the things we need to consider, the dangerous things we need to strike. This is fundamental if we are going to cancel the government's interest fee that we need to pay off debt. The best way to do that is to sell possessions that we would like to compare with ourselves. They are talking about how they want things the way they are in the North countries, and that is not to say that these countries are in big business. [[The president calls.]] I hope so. Senators take the matter seriously, but we've seen them here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u418	A respectable president. It is only hope. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is in a hard race from this case, speaking as if only allowed. The financial bill itself assumes that income from this selling property.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u419	It was in you too...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-16-56.u420	Thus, the forwarding party is selling the Lands Bank against its own approval. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The winner of Davíð Gunnlaugsson is selling the bank of the community. Frosti Sigurjónsson has shown that we Icelanders will lose 46.5 billion on this decision each year. Iceland's masquerade began with a personal friendship of the forward-and independent party on the banks. Now that expedition's begun a second time. Not even the High Priests and the Independence Party trust them in this work and so do we.
