ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u1	Borist has a letter from 8th. Witchest. "Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, "that she will not be able to stand for Congress in the near future. Yesterday, then, at the General Assembly, as reported on the Generals' website, Abullier 1 of the left movement's list of green offers in the district of Lárus Ástmar Hannesson. The letter of Lárus Ástmar Hannesson's son has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly, so he is bound to sign his pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u2	Lárus Ástmar Hannesson has signed his pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u3	The President has received a letter on the revocation of an oral query. Svandís Svavarsdóttir calls for an oral response on the roof again. 213, Case 207, on animal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u4	There have been 11 letters from the Ministry of Education and Culture requiring deadlines to provide written answers to the following queries: That's what I'm asking for. 118, for study and study of deaf children, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir; for the icicle. 168, about a number of high school students, from Odds Harðardóttir Oddný G.; a petition for a spell. 181, for high school, age, etc., from the Árni Páll the son of Árnason; for a spell. 214, the provision of a provision to further the learning and other adult study opportunities, from the Sagasi Svavarsdóttir; a petition to the icicle. 228, on the connection between education and cultural minister to Energy Energy Energy, from Birgitta Jónsdóttir; request for cover. 261, about the Social Security Fund, from the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir; for the icicle. 265 on a trip to China, from the Squeakísvísdóttir; a petition on a spell. 300, about the rent cost of high school, from Gunnarsdóttir Dögg Gunsdotsdóttir; the icicle. 311, the cost of specialised, counseling and covering work, from Katrín Jakobsdóttir; the request for covering. 322, on the future of Iceland's University activities on Lake Lava, from Björgvin G. Sigurðsson; and on the idea. 326, on a teacher's education and academic achievement, from Vigdís Hauksdóttir. Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 263, investigating a case at the Contestant Control, from Guðlaugur's pool of Þór Þórðarson. Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 301, on contracts with University Keil, from Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Health asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 247, in the business of a prisoner's house, from Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir. Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 331, seal on the implementation of the election, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u5	A respectable president. I would like to criticize the lack of Congress from counsellors. As a result, many have said little about it, and this upsets Congress. In fact, it is not new that the Senate works are upset at the Icelandic Council, but there must be something we want to change. I hear the Ministry has obviously enough to work on the deadline that was calling for answers to written inquiries, but this is not how it works. In the short future, we will not accept variations on events that come in after the month, because the Ministers and the Ministry will have to do better. That's not good enough at all. I call for ministers to rush into the council so that we can do them decently here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u6	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's mild temper, and this is an amazing lack of the government's work that is evident in the lack of Congress. It is also indistinguishable, and I had, for example, a special comment, that the deferral for inquiry on the part of the Ministry of Education is requested the second time to answer my inquiry on the basis of the academic minister's decision that has long ceased paying for people over 25 years of age in high school. I'm asking for logical support for a decision that has long been made. I'm asking for the existing physical diagnosis and I must have been there if the decision was made on enlightened grounds. It is amazing that a second request is made to answer the same obvious inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u7	A respectable president. I agree with a verbal vendetta. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's granddaughter's bramble. I feel this strange situation, and I don't think anyone feels comfortable that the weeks and days go by without the council discussing some real thing. There's been some very special cases from the government classes that the council has been given. This does not come from a place that is bad, disappointed, or boring. I'm just saying, there's a lot of people here who are willing to work, and I'm sorry they're going to be in the council in two or three weeks, and then they're done with some dog stuff. This is something we have to take seriously and change. I wondered, " Is it my duty to make this date that the Ministry has anything else? ' Have we been saving up to speed? What's happening? I don't understand it myself. I'd like to use this as an encouragement to all of us to think about how we work here and how we can work even better because it's not worth anyone having so many senators doing nothing, I have to say, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u8	V.E.G. President. I come here to say something. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's Struggle The welfare committee, for the two months that the council has been working, has established two counts of Congress from the government, and they have just arrived to the Committee. We are awaiting a number of cases in the facilities the committee would need to get to work. This is a very serious facility situation. These bills have been offered. It's been two and a half years of the season, and there's nothing in the committee. The important thing is that we get a case in advance so that we can do good work with it so that the laws we put here at the Council are the best. I encourage the president to move on to the Ministers that they speed up the bills they intend to receive by Christmas so that we can get them into this council and have some time to work on them so that the result will be no less than law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u9	Mr. President. I have to agree with the people here who have spoken, for despite the fact that one or two committees had something to do with them, it is not enough when a large part of the council is sitting here waiting for a case that the government wants to take care of for Christmas. We discussed the last meeting of the Board of Education this morning that at the Constitution there are 50 cases that the Committee is about to work in this council winter, and it is quite unsettled because there are in it as many as there are many other important issues that we do not want to work quickly when we do not need it and are not going to need it. Of course, you wonder what it is that has caused the Ministry to fail to handle what they are doing. These questions need to be asked, for it is obvious that there is something that stops, whether they are worth it or what they are doing. I agree with what. paritaprevir When Páll the Árnason of Aarna complains that a second time from the Ministry of Education is being asked for, he complains that it is a second time. I also have a request inside that has been performed things that have not been answered here, and is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u10	A respectable president. Now it's been two months of this council, and the situation is still so, as I please, there are three ministers who still haven't turned in one Congress to the council. Thus, according to the Work Programme, a new Council case to be scheduled for Christmas break has to arrive at the Generalis office by the end of November, i.e. After 20 days. This is a work programme that we have agreed on here, based on our work. I would like to encourage the minister of the government and of the government to wallow into a book and to keep a lamp. I wondered if it's a global problem or if it's about the lack of a job, because we've often seen a product of lack of job management and each man working in his corner. There's no way the Council is going to suffer because this is not being controlled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u11	President. What a pleasure it would be if the members of the greater part were to put more pressure on their government! I suggest we just strike the committees until we get a case in here because we know exactly what it's like. No matter how timely we try to establish their limits on when to return matters. Variations are abused. I have criticized the conduct of the council by making clear that we handle matters blindly. We're not supposed to let the company turn around and run the law in this country. But there are reasons. Congress officials of the greater part, who have the real power to do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u12	A respectable president. I'm gonna pick up the glove for President. I think senators are describing a situation that is somehow justified because I've talked about it, and I've talked about it in many places that it was a mistake to speed up a Senate hearing. For the past five to ten years, the council has been stirred to such an extent that it is now operating. For example, I have never understood the cause of the fall since the first day of the assembly was October 1 each year. I just don't understand what's going on. There's not enough work for the council. So, as I would like to remind you, Mr. Honorable President, this doesn't mean for members of the council to come up and be ashamed that there's no legal case coming from the councilmen. There are countless members of Congress here, both from government and from government opposition, but they do not make it to the council, despite the fact that it is a matter of delinquency because there has been a program set up on a prime committee that will result in the failure of members of the council to bring their affairs into place. Here I refer to a very important case that I have, the Generals' Law and the definition of natural resources. [[The president calls.]] This shows that the council is inexhaustible, and this is not going to be good with the pleasure of a respectable president, and I agree with the opposition this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u13	V.E.G. President. Now I run a General and Education Committee, which is the committee at least during the last session under enormous work loads. The Minister's Constitution announced that 50 primecasts should enter the committee, and now, as soon as November is about to become halfway, we have a bill of directors, and we of the Committee have, of course, solved it. We have also handled a matter of Congress. On the committee, we took this position very seriously, that we were getting heavy cases into the committee, and early in the winter, we began working and visiting where we wanted to go. So we're done with this section, but because we were urged to complain more, the one I think here has promoted that dissatisfaction. So the punk lives entirely on a universal and educational committee, although, of course, she's very dignified in her work. But I agree with the exhortation to the Minister to start putting in more matters here so that at the council we can take our role seriously in working well. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u14	The president wants to say, of course, that he has listened attentively to what the members of Parliament have given up here for Presidential Conference and will deliver messages to the president of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u15	A respectable president. I just wanted to say for myself that I have taken this encouragement to myself and will continue to try to work on putting things in here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u16	To answer, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Social and Homing Ministers and Fisheries Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u17	A respectable president. A major international conference in Paris, COP 21, has to do with binding criteria for the world's nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions because of the global catastrophe for mankind. On the part of the government, it has been stated that the government has decided to participate, as well as with the European Union and Norway, in commitments to pool emissions by 40%. It's a good thing to hear that initiative, especially in view of the fact that we have here to hear it from the highest level. The prime minister that during climate change and the disaster for the nations of the world there is great opportunity for the Icelanders. To be honest, it was a great joy to hear the president of France François Hollande make a very clear comment on a recent visit to Iceland about the fact that climate change cannot be viewed as an opportunity for a few people or anyone. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because responses have not been easily found, how to meet these ambitious goals, especially in view of the fact that the release log for today is not expected to increase the number of tourists, nor is it expected for three new plants now in preparation or the drawing table. If all of this is realized, we can expect to gather much more than 40% in order to meet our targets by 2030. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister how to prepare a strategy in this regard. Will she bring her into the council and try to create an extensive solidarity? Because it needs to be done if we are going to set ambitious goals that will be achieved in such a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this excellent inquiry. What a joy it is to have an opportunity to clarify matters! I'm here to say that I know no better than that I've been informed at a meeting with the council members that I'd like to have a presentation next week on the plans we have regarding the great meeting in Paris. The nations of the world are naturally preparing to meet certain conditions, but I view the world's nations as coming together to learn from one another and to join one another, since the atmosphere is our whole, united, and what each of us does helps the whole world. We are both making suggestions and preparing for what we live in Iceland can do in special measures as well as on a global scale. I can assure you what. The senator and members of the general body of Congress are under Hugi Ólafsson of the Ministry of Environment, which directs a team of six advisers to examine ideas on what we can do specifically to meet the requirements. We're ambitious about it, and I'm here with a plan that I'm interested in suggesting to be discussed, and it's divided into three ideas. Our primary concern is what assignment we will stress. Then there are international projects and what we do with the global world or the global world, and then there is the strength within the country, how we strengthen our infrastructure to be better equipped to carry out our assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Ministers respond and rejoice that we are coming to see an ambitious plan. I'd like to encourage her to impress her and tell her that she has nothing to fear, for we'll be behind her in ambitious proposals that Iceland can be in the highest order in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We have much to do with it as a nation for all the nations of the world. Iceland can't outrun it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in particular to that. Can we not be sure that in the next week's coming proposals, the problem will be handled as it looks in its entire form and the scope of its emissions on the part of Iceland, as it appears in its entire form, and thus by means of the emissions of the new factories I mentioned earlier and I have not already taken up work, that we are offering no suggestions of 40% decrease from what is going to be today, but 40% from what will occur in the coming years?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u20	A respectable president. Now, I want to wait to introduce here in detail what I'm going to suggest because this is still in progress and I want this week to process those ideas. Although work is directed by the Environment Ministry, I was able to include six members of the Ministry and to work on this document, so it's not normal for me to introduce it now. I also want to know that we've worked together at the National Institute of Economics to help with the calculations on this economic and how this could come out of that perspective. I haven't received that report yet. I hope it won't take long to wait. I agree with Prime Minister, however, that in all threats there may also be opportunities because people start thinking differently, and I feel that people are thinking differently about climate right now than they were two or three years ago. We may find it easier to try to get new technologies or to take better care of the resources or resources we have, etc., so there are opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u21	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. The occasion is news and discussion last week of sexual abuse charges in a summer resort for disabled persons over a year ago. The discussion noted that for 15 years the National Institute of Development has called for increased surveillance on summer resorts, and it reported accusations of inappropriate behavior toward clients. I think I speak for everyone here in this house, and definitely in the community at the time of the discussion, that patience for violence and bad behavior, sexual abuse, or other violence, is extremely limited. It must be in the custody of the European Commission to supervise its institutions, but also the measures that can be said to be linked to public authorities. I'll call in and ask for the highest. Ministers whether it agrees that it is long time to set the rules on summer house and other third - party services to those who are disabled and who are particularly under attack. In this context, of course, I remind you, as we have been doing in the short future, the importance of Iceland validating the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. I realize that contract isn't at the top of the power. Minister, but I'm sure she agrees with me that validation is something that needs to be accelerated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and agree with members of Congress that I believe we as a community have been knocked over the reports of violence. We talked about violence against disabled women whose case was dropped despite the careful investigation and work of the Ministry of Health. Similarly, there has been an article on the possible sexual abuse at an apartment in the gangs reported to the police. I think the feeling of all of us is that violence simply goes through too much in our society. That's why the Minister of State and Education and Culture and I signed a national declaration of action against violence and its consequences. We base that statement on knowing that certain groups in society are less vulnerable. They are in greater danger of being subjected to violence. Therefore, we want cooperation to reach out primarily for violence against children, violence in close relationships, sexual, mental, and physical violence against disabled people and other vulnerable groups. We also talk about hate speech. The first meeting of this provision was held on October 29 of the past. We assume that a meeting will soon be held, and the job will speed up as quickly as possible. That is why I have also signed a new law against harassment, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment at work places that apply throughout the workplace. That is no exception to that principle. We have also been increasing contributions to advisers and treatment of violence through contributions to the Department of the Land Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, the Gangmoths, the Woman's Hospital, Karla's responsibility and expansion of the Children's House. During the next few days, I will meet with the interest groups of disabled people to review the position of their clients and how we are to stand at the order of a staff for disabled persons. We must keep working against violence. We must continue to improve our careers and listen for criticism and guidance on what can be done better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u23	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for his answer and celebrate the Council of the United States of America. It is important that we continue to follow that discussion. Regarding the case of the city of New York, which was related to the charges during the last week, it has been noted that there was good reason to set up a study there. But it is important to declare good thoughts not only but also to be practitioners. According to the law on the affairs of disabled persons, it is a minister who is in charge of the affairs of disabled persons and who should be monitored for the implementation of the law, the service, and the operation of rural society and others. So I encourage a minister to set up a regulation on these homes and this service. Also, I would like to encourage us to be practical in this subject and to put more power in NPA or user-controlled personal assistance, a service that will prevent such problems in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u24	A respectable president. I once again thank a senator for the encouragement and inquiry. In this work, we need to review what we can do within current laws, whether there is something to sharpen about the legal environment. We need to review it as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, how our emphasis is in harmony with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinctive People, of the right to life without separation, of the right to an independent life that is underlying thought there. In the foundation, we always have to think about this and face the fact that violence exists in the community. It is, as I mentioned in my previous reply, certain groups, disabled people who are less vulnerable, and we need to consider how we can act against them and other vulnerable groups in the best way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u25	Mr. President. I'm going to the highest level of my speech. Seafood and agricultural ministers. The purpose of my inquiry is the change that occurred during the last year of a fishing season in a mackerel small boats. The change was made that instead of having one pot to catch from, the catch was divided onto boats and compared to six years of fishing experience. This change meant that many skiffers who had prepared their boats at high expense received little or no distribution and did not support the expenses that had been paid. The conclusion was that many who had planned for the mackerel did not start out, and others who might have wanted to try were not able to do so. Thus, only 3,176 tons of 7,26 tons were caught for distribution. In recent years, the rapid fishing of small boats has had a positive effect on many seaside settlements, creating work and income for sailors and people in the country, except that the raw materials that come from these boats are as good as the raw materials that can be. Of course, it has to be noted that for the past few years, macropaths were in a different way than those of the past, and it certainly had some effect on the less caught, and the price was lower than in recent years. So I want to ask the highest. In view of this experience, a minister does not intend to revise this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u26	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry from what? Senator. I think that the senator made the right comment when he reviewed the reasons why people didn't catch a mackerel on small boats in the last summer. It was primarily because of the macroil's walking pattern which once again shows that although the trunk was here for quite a while now and the truth was the best thing to say was to grow in Icelandic jurisdiction and strengthen its position, measurements showed that 37% of the strain in the North Atlantic proved to be in Icelandic jurisdiction, he did not walk up here to the base of the range he's done in years. So it was a real disappointment for the small boats, and of course the whole country, not being able to use that donated resource. Of course, they play other things into like what? A senator came in. It was also a lower price, and this may have been the main reason why men did not start the fishing while they were more involved in other fishing, in order to make shore fishing, and in recent years the gray patch had been in a better way than they had in recent years. The arrangement was, as was right. A senator, on the one hand, the distribution to the boats for a maximum price, has shown that it is the best way if a person has the vision, when to hunt, and not to go to the Olympic hunt at the worst time when the fish is cheap and poorest, but can provide it when it is most valuable. However, there was also 2 ups. a ton of pots that men could take in and rent their information, but for the price of it, and of course there was no fish, so they avoided it and spent the cost of it. The arrangement is always considered. I can't say if it's going to be different from this arrangement, but the main thing is, if we could make sure that the mackerel was always comparable and we knew where it was, we might be able to steer it better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers' answers, though they were rather thin, I'm no closer to whether the arrangements will be changed. It is very important that we become aware of the need for small boats in many parts of the country to prepare and prepare if they believe that it is proper and practical to go to macrotic fishing. So I'm in a position like what I was standing when I came up here, but thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate that in order to get a maximum supply for the miniboat sailors, the best way is for them to know what they can catch and to schedule it by saying goodbye to the labor departments on boats. It is the best structure, and that's how you get the highest price, both national and personal. However, it is also necessary to meet those who did not have enough experience if the mackerel behaves in any way that it has not been. So I think it was a wise way to have a pot that men could pick up. Sadly, this was not sufficient during the last season primarily because the mackerel did not have a basic approach and also because of the fact that the price of macroil, especially to small boats, was too low, and men simply did not consider operating ground for hunting. Of course, the arrangement will be considered. As we know, no creation could be done here during the council last summer. The Court's judicial hearings are now under way, and the court's orders must be received from the courts on what future arrangements should be made when there is no possibility of finishing the matter here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u29	Mr. President. As perhaps for a long time, the transfer of disabled persons from a country to a rural society is now in a state of confusion and is particularly having problems with the NPA community. The European Union does not attend a meeting on the NPA project management because of a conflict in cost exchange, and it is still waiting for an answer to its mission to minister since August. The law states that NPA is to be legalized as a primary form of service to disabled people. This has been decided by the General Assembly and has appointed the Commission to work on it. Of course, the debate between the state and rural society is about money. While these conflicts exist, people with NPA contracts have to reduce their services, and even there are some people who have had to reduce their jobs as their MPA services are essential to employment activities. In addition, there is much insecurity in NPA contracts, since the service is a prerequisite for them to have the freedom to control their own lives. Nobody wants to lose that freedom. What's your chief plan? Social and housing minister will do to solve this financial dispute with the rurals? Can people with the NPA treats trust that they will remain free to control their own lives?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the Ingadóttir for the inquiry. We were hoping for the overall reassessment of the transfer of disabled persons to conclude that there would be a difference between the state and rural society. However, there is a possibility that I will not, in the days following, receive the report from the Reevaluation Committee, where the frame will be made of the increase in costs that have actually occurred during this period since the group of paintings went over to the countryside. Like what? A senator mentioned in his inquiry when an NPA experiment was given special financial resources. The experiment then started at a slower pace than any expectations, and as a result, the council made a decision to extend the test project. We were hoping that there would be room within the budget to add contracts, but the local community has required to increase the share of the State in the experiment. It has now been so that the government has paid 20% and has required that this cost factor go up to 30%. It has also been said that there is a predetermined amount, the fixed amount of money set aside by rural society, regardless of whether the future raises to employees who perform these tasks. I expect to sit down with the European Union and review these differences over the next few days. I'd also like to remind you that the budget is in the Senate treatment, so there is no conclusion until the General Assembly settles the procedure for the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u31	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. Ministers are about to settle down with their rural communities, and I hope there will be an acceptable solution there. I repeat, the decision has been made at the General Assembly of the Icelanders to make sure that NPA becomes a principal form of service to disabled people so that the decision is established, and we assigned it to the Commission to ensure that it could. While the debates between state and rural society are common, in this case 50 people are free to control their lives, and that matter must be solved. Such insecurity cannot be offered. Therefore, I encourage ministers to make every effort to eliminate uncertainty as soon as possible and to declare that people will continue to be free of their own lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u32	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator on the importance of NPA services. This is one of the highlights of the Council. The test project has been very successful, and I reiterate what I said that we found, at times, you feel, with members of the European Union and the local government. I recently attended a meeting with social managers, where I studied this seminary. We will continue to meet with them on this matter as well as others. I agree with what. A senator's importance that we complete this test project, and this will be part of the legal environment that will then be found in the law on the affairs of disabled people and possibly in the social services as it is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u33	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna be in a place like what I'm supposed to be. paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé in my query to the highest. Secretary of society and housing. I think everyone is shocked by Caste's review last week of violence administered to women with developmental impairment at the summer resort to disabled people. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers for ensuring that measures against violence have been established. I think it's extremely important to bring together the work of these three highest places. Minister; Minister of Education, Minister of Internal Affairs and Social Affairs, on these matters. National research shows that disabled women are more likely to be violent than other women, and new research shows that the same is true in this country. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on the grounds that these matters are being discussed, both in the community and here at the council: Does she believe that there is enough knowledge in institutions of violence that disabled people, especially disabled women, are at risk of becoming treated? How can you increase the knowledge of those who work with disabled persons in these matters? Take care of the highest. For example, a minister uses increased education to identify and identify violence in the case of workers. in institutions and other places where disabled people stay or gather together?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir for the inquiry. The declaration of national agreements on action against violence and its consequences is just given the vital point that we work together against violence in Icelandic society. Research has shown the destructive effect of violence, and it is important for us to expand our educational and prevention work. We feel that it is important to improve the cooperation and cooperation between violence and violent research. I think there's going to be a lot of public awareness about it. The relatively new arrangement of rights was a big step forward. I hear from my people there that they believe that a great spiritual awakening occurred among those working along and caring for disabled people, as well as with disabled people, their caregivers, and their community as a whole. I think I can still say that there is not enough knowledge on these matters at all. For example, I have seen this in foreign studies that I have been studying. It shows that there is absolutely not enough knowledge of violence toward disabled people, so we need more instruction. I'd also like to point out another thing that I think happened to the president of the General Education Committee, i.e. That we need funding, e.g. The police involved in the investigation of these cases and the entire supportive system, in order to acquire this knowledge, and in order to perform a class adequately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think it is, fortunately, that they are becoming conscious of the violence of disabled people and that there is a great danger that disabled people are being treated simply in institutions, including sexual abuse, but at times disabled people have been viewed as semisexual beings, and therefore they have simply not been expected to be sexually abused. So I think the discussion about it is an improvement. I also think it is true that there is not enough knowledge of these matters, i.e. There's a lot of theoretical knowledge, but I don't think it's necessary to get that knowledge to those who work with disabled people. It will cost something to conduct such a course or to take the lead in such training. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does she reason that earmarks will become money for the start of such an educational program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator once again before the speech. This is what I've been talking about, that we in the community are always getting the better sense of each other. Like what? A senator mentioned certain groups, especially disabled people, that are more vulnerable and vulnerable than others. People have been reaching out for this matter, but it is vital that we put that knowledge into our work, i.e. how we're getting closer to research. That is what the court's work has been doing. We now see that there have been changes in the activities of the South police in an investigation. I know there's a lot of interest in the police to take up that project all over the country and learn from it. We have also been considering the issue of violence with disabled children and how we can better ensure that children's homes can care for them and take care of their needs. [[The president calls.]] We must continue to listen for criticism and counsel on what we can do better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u37	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister. I would like to thank the Minister very much for coming to this discussion with me on such short notice as we have seen. I'd like to say that there are many reasons for us to wonder about making stock agreements. Although direct payments from state funds to farmers due to agricultural products have gone very low as a percentage of land production, from 5 to 1% in 20 years, there are still more than 10 billion of the money available to farmers and further cost to the state due to this article. It is therefore the duty of members of Congress to keep track of new preparations and how they will be successful. It is not wise to hide the ministers and stakeholders just to make a deal and then bring him back to the council and begin to speak up. How much better it is to discuss the matter, as it is discussed from all sides, all views torn, all interests on board, and our experience, and our own history, and other nations. Among the countless basic views, such as consumers' idea, is that there is an abundant supply of cheap goods for consumers. Based on the basis of the design of this article, we are endeavoring to promote a structure or distribution in a certain way, or not. If agriculture is not to be involved in urban development, it needs to be discussed elsewhere and relieved. The most economicality, profit - making business, the sound of farmers, is the viewpoint. Newcommunication, that there may be a new onset and renewal in the company of farmers. Food security, food security, and the quality of any kind. Animal protection and concern for animals. The survival and breeding of animal stocks, that Iceland has special animal stocks, and that it needs to be taken into account in making negotiations. And what drugs, what feed, what cost we're going to allow them to be used in agriculture in Iceland. The environment, the protection grounds, the agriculture grounds, all of these are underlying factors. It's cultural and social. It is reported that the agriculture will follow a certain culture, a type of social activity to be maintained and considered. It can be evident, then, that many of these views are incompatible, i.e. They don't fit in very well. If we go very far in the practical requirements, how should we care for all the other requirements? For example, a animal tour requires that it be kept clean. Quality, purity, animal protection, regional ideals, and land protection policy are thus misinvolved by practical requirements. One of the first things in which it may be wise to think carefully about how we have achieved, what goals have been in existing agreements, how to achieve them. That is why I ask my formal question to the minister: Has this been a systematic and scientific recommendation? Do we have a lot of data and reports on how these goals are achieved? You see, I find that when you start talking about this, you always start talking about some really important money transfers that are in force today or that have been in force and that you have been discussing changes, often minor, instead of looking at the overall picture. In current agreements, there are considerable differences in the terms of a milk contract and a sheep contract. In the milk, we are more talking about bisness, practicalness, and a great deal has happened there, from less than 1,500 inhabitants to less than 700 in less than 20 years. That's how it seems to be going. The sheep's agreement has a more sustainable, environmental and regional objectives, and the sheep farms have developed in different ways, with a much higher variety of habitats, with links to other sectors being different and more and more of the workers working outside the home than may be involved in agricultural operations, which have developed in a very rapid manner. I'd like to ask a minister for a stand on new contracts: Will the free sale of payment continue with the people? Already it is estimated that 30% of what is paid has been reviewed. It is now going to farms that are prone to farming and finance. Do we want the payments we make in this regard to the financial institutions? Will be paid for similar factors today or we will see changes, e.g. pay on land culture, farms, cattle, or anything like that? [[The president calls.]] I've heard the Minister order a change. I would like to encourage the Minister to make us at the council aware of the changes he has.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u38	A respectable president. I want to thank you. the advocate of this discussion. First, I'd like to say that the funds that go to the market agreements are to ensure consumers' access to healthy quality products at lower prices. With regard to the purpose, this is three agreements; about milk, sheep, and gardening. The University of Iceland's Economic Institute has reduced the demand for milk production since 2004-2014. In spring, the University of Akureyri Research Centre made a comparable assessment of the status of sheep culture in preparation for a new agreement, and in terms of gardening, a recent report by the National Institute of Economics of the University of Iceland from 2013 was made based on the 2002 ◯2012 Convention. In terms of the milk contract itself, his aim is to start with the general employment conditions in production and processing and support of the State at the branch to promote continued economy, improve competitiveness and lower prices, and also to use support to reduce consumer products' prices and to maintain stability that has been achieved between production and demand within the country, that there is room to prepare for higher international competition, and to develop essential generation growth. Also, the purpose of the contract is to renew production status and to take care of animal success and wholesome products. There is no doubt that if you quote the report from the National Institute of Economics at the University of Iceland, there has been considerable profits in milk production and development during the contract period. During the past year, the number of milk manufacturers from 905 to less than 650 increased from 10,000,000 gallons [ 109 million L] to 145 million. The increase in the average house with a payment target has increased by 80 to 90% or from 120 thousand litres to about 220 thousand. In this regard it is important to remember that during the contract period public donations have dropped significantly or from 65 k. a litre of 51 k. on price of 2013. Farming milk prices have kept up with inflation during the contract period and only beyond that, but because of the less intensive, total amounts of liters of liters have dropped by more than 5%. Entire products of milk have dropped significantly at this time, as is the case with smallly sold dairy products, and have increased less than the level of consumption in the contract. Hence, it can be seen from the above that the aims of increasing efficiency, promoting lower prices, and making the best use of government support for lowering prices have been achieved or at least have set in the right direction. As I could about them, there is a little optimism about cow farming, and a few renewals have taken place. I emphasize the defect as a matter of course. A saying came on, i.e. The possession of the quathane, that, at the return of the dairy contracts, the support plans will be modified so that support payments do not develop in a similar way so that it makes it easier for young men and women to start farming, as is true of sheep farming. The aim of the Sheep Treaty is to promote flocks as a industry and improve farming resources, to promote innovation, and to provide sheep with the environment, agriculture and sustainable land use, to stimulate market awareness of farmers and products, to keep balances between production and demand, and to promote progress. A great deal of goods has long been a problem in sheep fields. On the other hand, a much smaller portion of sheep's prayer builds on sheep's farms, making it relatively simple to do other work with farming if such work can be done at a critical distance. Nevertheless, it is a fact that significant innovation has taken place in the range of sheep farmers during the past few years, even more than in cow farms, which may be surprising to their survival. The newness is also greater as far away as the capital is likely to be explained because the areas are more suitable for far - flung sheep. In fact, the contract may have had some of the money spent in recruitment, and it may have had some effect on them too. In terms of the aim of sustainable agriculture, i.e. quality production, with no doubt in my mind that this witness has been successful, and the awareness of moderate use and healing has grown dramatically in recent times. With regard to the garden agreement, customs were struck down on tomatoes, pickles, and peppers in 2002. In fact, there were more changes, customs, and then descriptions, allowing them to engage in whole - year production. This has led to significant change, and the direct benefits to consumers and taxpayers are considerable in the opinion of Iceland's Economic Institute for Economics. It should be noted, though, that domestic flowering failed during these changes and that the paprika production is much smaller than it used to be. I will come to emphasis in my new contract and in the context of the settlement in my final words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u39	A respectable president. These are agricultural and agricultural contracts. I believe this discussion is needed. I'd like to wonder, then, where would there be any potential for Icelandic agriculture? Will they continue to grow? Or in the possibilities that farmers may have to increase the value of their production? In the left movement, we have a very clear view of the possibilities of agriculture in this country. They lie primarily in the quality, traceability, purity, primancy, and direct contact with farmers; the product produced by sustainable and expensive management. I feel a great deal of interest and interest in the farmers as they follow in that direction. In many places, agricultural projects are being developed that have the right to work and to sell directly. This possibility is further added to the increased tourism industry. A small slaughterhouse in the Segregation Camp of Skaftfells has been authorized to slaughter, but the process required to get that permission is too heavy and needs to find ways to open a slaughterhouse to interested people. If, on the other hand, the population is increasingly purchased by growing and financing, producing large amounts of land, moving toward the well - being that he rightly had with his people, and being very valuable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u40	A respectable president. Thank you for an interesting discussion on this important subject. You see, I've wondered why there wouldn't be a much bigger group in this market deal than the Department of Agriculture on behalf of the government and then the National Research Association. I can ask: Where, for example, are consumers in this discussion and others interested in it? Now that I'm working on a new agricultural contract, I'd like to draw more people to the table. I hope a minister will answer that question later on, if not. The store contracts are also, as it has been established, somewhat monotonous. I would like to see more diversity in Icelandic agriculture and that men would be able to go outside the box in their production. This, of course, is part of a geographic policy where people are actually paid to care for the land, cultivate it, and care for it. That's the way it is in the European Union. I think it's something we should look at. I also feel a little worried, as I have experienced, that agricultural policy somehow means some regional policy. Of course, this hangs together, but based policy in Iceland has been very poor and irrelevant, and random decisions have been made to try to save the rest and this instead of having some overall credit. I wondered, " Is this because people have always viewed agricultural policy as their own geographic policy? ' Of course, being a part of it is not enough. I thank you for this discussion and look forward to continuing to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir Hörður the son of Ríkharðsson for starting this discussion and the highest. Agricultural minister for his answers. Here are the points, in discussions about agricultural practices in Iceland, that we are ready to have very strong opinions on them and load up many parts and tasks like that. paritaprevir Hörður Ríkharðsson's son crossed over. The agriculture is being loaded into various factors that are incompatible with one another. He made it very clear in his question, which I want to make to the subject, to the highest. Ministers, seeking to discuss it from those facts. Have we reached the targets of future farming contracts? I think the report is the highest. A minister, both of the University of Akureyri, who had recently come out, and of the University of Economic Institute, referred to the milk deal, answered: Yes, we have, in principle, done so. We have reached the lower price of dairy consumers by ensuring at the same time the share of farmers in final sales prices. We have reached the main points in a sheep market agreement and the University of Akureyri report on the sheep contract is very interesting in that it presents a theoretical analysis of meat markets and shows the influence of other meats on the survival of sheep farmers or cross -overs between individual flocks. What I miss from the University of Akureyri report is that they reasoned very well that the price at the market for lamb today might be 12.5% higher but, according to their analysis, would not be too rare to bring any pineapples on how to do it. Then it is a foundation, like a dog. A senator, who was next to me, discussed the matter. We can also say that we have made many of the steps we have considered in recent years. If we look back to 1989, where we start up this day's livestock contracts, expenses for agriculture, with simple direct extrapolation, were set out from the state's budget of $2 billion but today are just over 10. [[The president calls.]] And then we ask: " What happened to the money in it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u42	President. I started thinking about what it's like when you buy lamb or some other Icelandic goods. It's subsidies and farmers' support. What's that gonna cost to the taxpayers in the end? Naturally, we must pay with our tax for the agricultural support. What, then, is the combined cost of a single leg of lamb or one body of a sheep? Somehow, we feel that we lack a proper perspective on this party. I have to take my heart to the ground with the rest of my life. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's butterfly, for it's the same with this system as with all the others, that it's always been, somehow, piling into holes and holes, so you can't have a properly flogging system because it's so crowded. Therefore, I would like to challenge those interested in living in a society where the systems serve all, to go to the necessary work where we take and examine all of these our systems, and to examine the costs in a collective way, what is good and useful for society and conventions of the real modern policy of government in the country. That's equal to this party and everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u43	A respectable president. The results of long-term negotiations have recently been reported with the European Union on cutoff of trade through agricultural products. Interestingly, both the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Agrienvironmental ministers have said, however, that treaties are not to be implemented until agricultural contracts are concluded and provided with a draft of changes for the upcoming market agreements. I wondered, in view of the fact that we haven't got to see here at the cards and heard nothing from the highest. Ministers on government contract objectives in these livestock contracts, in what way treaties are being handled in this respect. What interests are being cared for? Is this the interest of farmers? Is it a interest in recent recruitment, or is it a stand for the same situation that counts all things? I doubt that any other case would be so that no contract goals would be discussed publicly in large agreements just ahead of the State. I also pointed out that more than a year ago the nominees of all classes were requested on a committee for a review of agricultural products. I represent the United Nations as a nominee. That committee has never been called together. Of course, I must call for the highest. A minister showed the cards about future agricultural policy and relied on them to discuss it directly. Of course, the big aim now should be to make it easier for farmers to live evenly in security, as well as to increase their employment freedom, the possibility of producing what they want, and to increase their value on the open market. The focus of the nation and State should be that way. Sadly, though, he seems too trapped in his guard position about a few people who seem to be in charge and can maintain this trade in the weekends, totally unscrupulous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u44	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion that has been very good. It is obvious that agriculture in Iceland is a turning point in terms of both the new European Convention, which will take effect over the next few years, and as a result of the renewal of a domestic agreement. How important it is that humans use the opportunities that are open to this milestone and appreciate the impact of both agreements on, for example, urban development in the country! Then I think of the great agricultural region I represent at the General Assembly, i.e. Southwestern politics, but there's a serious danger if you don't figure out there's going to be a local problem over the toll change. I'd also like to say that it's disappointing to say that the high profits that have been achieved in agriculture, especially in the milk industry, have not fully contributed to consumers. You do not realize exactly where these shores are, but the bonds reach the owner of the country's market, for it is evident that the economy that has been handled very well has not been achieved. Happily, however, in Iceland, about every human child can realize that when it goes out into the store how much bone payment is on each given litre or kilometer because, unlike what is in the European Union, agricultural concentrations are very transparent and general and difficult to throw on them, it is very easy in Iceland to realize, for example, how much bone grounds are on each pound of lamb's flesh. Otherwise, we too need to include in these discussions, to set aside the means for prayer, i.e. the cost of energy, the supply of energy, and, of course, we need to make sure that these are the essentials. [[The president calls.]] I'd especially like to mention that we have the potential to produce an application in Iceland through sustainable use of water spills, and that should be a great incentive for us to do so and to contribute to our having real eco-friendly production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to celebrate this discussion, and even longer. Agrienvironment schemes are needed here. In fact, I have a inquiry, which I asked long ago on this matter, which has been quite delayed to answer, but hopefully now I'll find out next week. It is in my opinion that the word is very urgent, and in itself critical, how short the contracts have left. If I remember correctly, then the garden agreement is about to expire. A year remains of the milk deal, and two of the sheep's agreements. In addition, there is considerable uncertainty that has followed the fact that two Manufacturers of the Agency made a deal with the European Union, which alters the work environment in several ways and greatly reduces the support they have had by customs protection, and, of course, has a secondary impact on all EU sectors. It is therefore urgent that sooner and later the work environment of domestic agricultural production will be explained for the next few years. There should be a basis for confidence in this as well as for any adjustment or support that articles will receive them in a new package that is most affected by the customs contract. Secondly, regarding the support arrangements here, I think that it will not be avoided to consider and answer questions as to how much compression or development we would like to see in Icelandic agriculture, e.g. in milk production. Those questions will be no more satisfying than to answer them. And that's exactly what you're talking about. paritaprevir Larus Ástmar Hannesson mentioned, that men should take care to the ground in regard to the favor enjoyed by domestic products among the people, including the U.S.A. because the family has been building a core unit and this has already been supported in rural areas. The well - meaning person may not be present if the production rights with the State's support are swept together into a small factory. So I don't think it'd be much later to try to answer these basic questions in the coming contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u46	A respectable president. I'd especially like to thank you for this discussion, it's important, and I'd like to agree specifically with the members of Congress who have stressed the importance of opening up the discussion and opening up the process, and there are more people, especially consumers. I am myself an amateur for agriculture or agriculture, and Icelandic agriculture is certainly the best agriculture in Iceland, end of the only one, but in a world relationship, it's extremely small. I mean, there's some bullshit opportunities in Icelandic agriculture, not just here on land, but for exporting as much as it takes specialization. The trend in Iceland has been that agriculture is always becoming more monotonous and monotonous. Maybe it's some way because it's so manufacturing. It's certainly the tenet we've seen in most countries, e.g. all countries in the Northern Hemisphere, the number of habitats is reduced, and production tends to become more monotonous. We've seen this here on certain sides of the products, etc. has become extremely strong. We found this at the Council of Hearts in the future when we visited the United States's dairy farm in Bolungarvík the other day that it is nearly a ten million of the Icelandic agricultural product produced in a wide variety of industrial productions, directly from farmers, etc. Even those most active in that production produce small amounts of their production. Besides, I have to mention it as a special amateur for the Icelandic goat that goat products seem to be in many respects outside the Icelandic agricultural system. [[The president calls.]] The hardware contracts are high on top of the major production sectors, and I think that by a greater source of resources, we could see a greater variety of agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u47	A respectable president. I thank the advisor and the highest. Agricultural minister for the introduction to this discussion. I'd like to say in the beginning that if the state guarantees the existence of a specific agricultural in this country regardless of demand or efficiency, and I have my views on the question that does not allow us to discuss here and now, it is right to do so in a direct and transparent manner, such as, for example, that it is appropriate to do so. with the government's contract to transfer money to farmers with taxpayers. The agreements or contracts are such fines for that purpose. However, it is completely unacceptable that mine knows that agriculture support, or any sector, is also indirectly like the access block, i.e. Blocking into the market for competitive foreign products It doesn't matter to me if other countries respect their citizens. And while I believe that Iceland is most successful and natural to be a sovereign and independent country, I welcome the recent European Community agreement on detoxification of agricultural products and agrienvironment schemes. However, the highest severity has been observed. Secretary of State that the contract will not be submitted to the General Assembly until a new market contract is signed and it can be taken into account as long as the new market agreement is not reduced to completion. Work on a new market agreement or negotiation must not interfere with the steps that have been taken toward liberation, towards greater freedom in business, nor can the agreement with the European Union be a failure of the government in the sense that there will be no further act on the matter of freedom of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to thank everyone who's spoken up here. We're all in a bomb, this is no time we have for this. It's clear that we can take a long discussion about the sheep's deal on our own, about the milk alone, and I didn't mention garden farmers. There's no disrespect to them. There's just no time. We'll see that this is no time. Then we need a special time for the community talk, which, of course, is intertwined into the same thing. Now, Steingrímur's out of the hall. I was going to tell him the milk was gone. He doesn't have to think so much about it. She's gone to the bisque, where family size is no longer, and funding has become the main factor. Brynhildur, there is also a local problem, and this is a debate that needs to be taken, especially on the basis of localities. Is agriculture to be responsible on the ground, or are we going to deal with the settlements in particular? Haraldur rolls up there... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u49	Wait a minute. A senator to mention the problem. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u50	I'm sorry. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson referred to an interesting point when he wondered: " If we were to spend 4% of this country's production in the past, 1% now, where is the money? If at that time, for example, those who were considered to be house - to - house surgery have been greatly reduced, without making a conscious decision, or what? We have no idea. So there are a lot of factors to discuss. The Earth Law has not been named here. I supported them back then. We went into very free soil. Maybe we made a mistake there. Perhaps we need to bind our land more to farming and land use. There is one view that we will have absolutely to discuss, and we need to take much time to do. Finally, I want to say that in the recent report from the University of Akureyri, the export of sheep products is being considered. I've been watching the discussion for 20 years, and I think they're a little bold about promoting that one more bright trip there. I can't hear they're contaminating money on the export of sheep products. [[The president calls.]] But in other respects, I want to thank the highest. Minister for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion. I'm going to try to finish my goals, but it's true that time is pretty good. In line with a memo I used for the government of my time, the goals we have set are some. A long term application contract to ten years will be made for at least the working conditions of farmers based on financial support and toll protection and is intended to promote competitiveness, increase diversity, promote innovation and harmony with the environment. The impact of the eating system in milk will be reduced and removed in stages, further reducing the impact of the current sheep paymentmark, the roof will be provided for individual manufacturers to ensure family-friendly agriculture and rural areas, and attention to the varied arrangements for support. There will be two-way agreements on increasedtoll free trade, support for organic production, quality control systems developed, and environmental payments being considered. An effort will be made to improve the size of rural areas, expand new projects, and promote agricultural education and research. We'll have to pay the money to become part of a livestock agreement, we'll also make a part of the deal. The European Union's Foodland project will include campaigns in the commercial marketing of Icelandic food in connection with tourism. In other words, general support forms, regardless of their territory, are being introduced to open up the possibility of new instruments. In this regard, there has been talk of bovine farming, goat herding, breeding vegetables, etc. In other words, looking for what will be long - term benefits to modern farmers rather than the interests of their current farmers without being pulled away from them. With reference to the government's emphasis, it has been designed to promote residences in the more scattered areas of the country. Certain areas of agriculture we know play an important role in ensuring solidity in this country and in this regard it is appropriate to refer to the report on sheep farms. In short, the whole country will grow with the increase of domestic food production. It is premature to answer to the extent to which the basis will influence new livestock treaties, but it is certainly in place. But we will be able to sustain domestic production and thus sustain the country. [[The president calls.]] It is important to look to the point of view that happened. For example, we do not want to sit by importing goods. meat contaminated with antibiotics. [[The president calls.]] The amount of antibiotics used in various parts of Europe in the production of meat in the country compared to the quality products produced here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u52	Mr. President. When that decision was made on Wednesday night at the highest point. The secretary of the economy would measure the case and take the answers and the discussion would continue later, but I did not realize that. A minister wouldn't be on the land. He couldn't be with us today. It was clear, however, to members of the council. I'd like to ask if there's a substitute. A minister will not be sure to be here in the hall to observe the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u53	V.E.G. Secretary of education, standard at the highest. Secretary of finance, has entered the building and is expected to be in the hall in a moment, and the president is making arrangements for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u54	Mr. President. It's a pity to see again and again the role of the budget being ignored. It seems that it is now foreign to go past the financier where the role of the budget is listed. In the role and content of the budget, all predictable budgets are listed in budgets, while financial contributions will be sought to provide information on the resources that cannot be provided in payment. In the introduction to the bill that we discuss, this is made clear in a clear way, followed by suggestions on many matters that were completely anticipated and, in fact, not just foreordained by the cause. Rather, it was clear to all that more was needed, such as to be put in the tourist trade fund, for in the budget and in the budget adopted by tourists would be estimated to make only 45.8 billion. A.J., just under 146 million. K. Mr. President. You can be pretty weak in math to not realize how to deal, and you would have had to take action and start at the beginning of this year, and even though it had been before, because the same game was played on the side of the budget of 2014. This was repeated during discussions, as we expected in our memory that there would be an additional one between the 2nd and the 3rd. from the highest. The government's budget for tourism to deal with the obvious problem, but it wasn't. Suggestions from the smaller parts of that section were dropped by the wind. The members of the board of directors. So it was a conscious decision to set only 45.8 billion. K. in a tourist market fund by 2015 Now the budget is obvious, that we need extra money and that we accept 850 million. K. to deal with the challenges of tourism. Of course, we agree that this will be necessary, but I'll criticize it, Mr. President, that this is a means of using the budget to put under the highest hand. Governments, tops. Secretary of travel. We have been given to participate, not just to do so, but to the budget bill, which has been measured and is now under operation in the wind. The financier, assumed that only 149 billion will be set up in the tourism budget during 2016. K., so we're supposed to play the game over and over again. Who would think that 145 million is enough to be put in? K. in a tourist market fund and raised it by 3.2 billion. K. from the current situation of 850 million people. K.? Mr. President, I'd like to be very critical of this. The same can be said of the Roadmaker. That's exactly the same way. I'd like to quote my 1st section of the 2nd. budget for 2015 It says on transportation, with the permission of a president: The road system is under stress because of the increased travel rate and needs to be maintained by traffic security, and this requires increased funding. We then made a move made by the government's decision. It is clear, and it does not need any more witnesses, everyone was aware that the amount of money that could in no way be approved to cope with the problem there was. The budget expects a budget of 1.1 billion for health insurance agreements with specialists. The budget bill is exactly the same as by means of roads and contributions in a tourist position. A smaller proportion of the council realized that the cost of dealing with specialist physicians would not be realized, enough is the burden of payment for individuals in the medical system anyway. We made a suggestion that this would not be the way it would be. The government proposed, and the administrative body made that suggestion. But now it's the highest. Secretary of the economy with a proposal that the top management sector has already broken down. I'm glad you're here. I rejoice in their repentance at the highest. The government, but I'm critical of a poor plan, and that the budget doesn't have a name and that it needs to be brought in like this into the budget. Another thing I'd like to mention at the short time I have is baby reforms and interest improvements. Now in the budget bill, child reforms and growth reforms are expected to drop, child support is up to 600 million. K. and growth improvements by 200 million. K. That's 800 million. K. .............. Councilmen agreed that they should go to equalize the status of the children and of those in a house - to - house debt. But this does not work out because both of these amounts are income - related, and the criteria are so low. The coin the council agrees to go in order to equalize the status of the children as well as those who pay high interest from the mortgages, for example, to the child settlement that they start to interfere with 200 you. K. month. I'd like to encourage you to consider them for the 2016 fiscal year, we won't be told that it's some total height and people are happy to be over some huge amount when a large part of it goes back to the state's budget because the criteria are so low. We need to look at the criteria and go through thoroughly how the plan is calculated. The budget bill also expects more than 2 billion dollars. reduction in hunting costs. It gives us reason, Mr. President, to recall what has been done with the 2013 budget of fishing. This amount has dropped every year. If we take the 2 billion, 2,020 million. K. which are reduced in these budgets, which are due to changes in the rate of hunting and lay down next year only if we take them away from them by then the cost of hunting has been reduced by 2013 by 6170 million. K. A collection of 14,590 million. K. What couldn't we have done for the money, if we took only 6170 million. K.? We could dig a tunnel, we could fix a road, a huge project that's skimming these days. For example, we could have dropped the insurance fee that would be useful to all other jobs in the country, perhaps even making a share of it available to the rural community. The drop is 46%, which is now a pretty good deal for the production in the country that has rarely been better, and I'm only talking about the amount of each year's price. If we got involved counting in in inflation, the account would be different from all of us at the financial expense. A respectable president. We have called on a financial committee to bring in a visitor to explain what the benefits are to us taxpayers that the State Fund is founded on the Asian Investors Bank. This contribution is appreciated, from what I hear, at 2.3 billion dollars. Even if it does not pay off suddenly, it does not pay off. I think it's important that we carefully consider why we need to share in one more bank. We have a share in the Norwegian investment bank, which not only invests in infrastructures in the North countries but also makes his investments different. The same is true of the European Development Bank. Why do we need to add this, and what additional part is it so important to us that we are founded on this large Asian bank? I'm sure we'll find the answer at the time, but it's not now. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to criticize a plan on the income side. It's the same with the other team I've mentioned here, and not for the first time that it happens, that money is estimated by the Bank Office in a certain way. For them, it is reasoned in a budget board that it is safe to expect more money from financial companies, and since two months later, their main meetings have approved a much higher amount of money, as shown on the bill that is positive now on the income side of 17 billion dollars. and most of it is because of interest from the Lands Bank. The owner of the Land Bank estimates interest on a few billion dollars by the end of December 2015 and within two months of the expected new interest payments. Mr. President. It's very hard for me to figure out this game. It looks like a fake, like a fake. We don't have enough money to dig a tunnel and build a road, but then it's in the budget: However, the discussion of their use is not consistent with what should be in the budget of each year. Now, my time is over, Mr. President, and I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u55	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill for the budget money for the current year. As was traced, a minister recommended the case before a weekend, and a later discussion was agreed, perhaps not a matter to be discussed into the darkness, into the night. So I agreed that this would be done, although it would never be appropriate to allow time to pass and not have an appropriate minister present, who knows things through and through, although I am not going to belittle the role of financial ministers today. I'm going to go through this bill as it happens and reflect on the thoughts it has. Of course, you cannot say otherwise than that this bill does not serve its purpose and role in the introduction, called the role of a budget. There's an unforeseen cost and unforeseen expenses to go in here, but unfortunately, we haven't made it through the years, which is not new to the needle, I'm not going to say it. It's not like we've been able to do things like that. It's often brought in with a subject that we know is not unforeseen. This bill is certainly not divorced, and if something is done, it may well be added. It's a lot of money, to say the least. It appears initially on the basis of this bill that it was decided that it was decided not to accept proposals for the fragments and money and property that move to the State for the bill that was approved for a weekend. It may be understandable, though, that a person may not be put in something that has not been resolved or approved, and you can understand it, especially when it comes to such sums. But it's quite clear that there's something we didn't expect, i.e. Money is very different from what many have expected. I have made comments that the effects of the collective agreement are not evaluated here unless part of it is. It's funny that in a bill that's so late, there's no better way to figure it out. We're talking about plan. That's what's important. And if you want to talk about government budgets, where everything is going to be based on a good plan and it's going to be the first and last to be good planning and to think that it will not be the sign, any more than the budget that we've also discussed. A sentence in the case of BHM and Fih is available in August. That's why I think it should have been possible to take some food from it into this bill. But this is not done, and I suppose it is one of the things that are added to the money available in a financial bill now between discussions. The majority of the improved funds are said to be largely explained by financial contributions. That's one of our strange things. If it is possible to plan a profit plan, why shouldn't they be estimated as close to the real world? I don't think the answers from the Ministry are enough. I believe that if you can estimate 15 billion or 12 or 20, you can figure that out, because two months later, nothing is going to happen so great that it can't be estimated. So, in the minority, we have maintained very strong air because this is happening for at least the second time if not for the third time, so great an aberration. It is worth considering, however, that if the extra payments are separated from the originals, these budgets will get worse about 3 billion. There is something we need to be very aware of. When you look at the database and the business, emissions, and influxs in the state fund, it has been taken out, or a 15% share has been taken out of the bank of the United States. He is no longer expected in the budget; he is expected to be twice as much, i.e. That 30% of the sales will be held in the budget bill we have for the next year's discussion. Other changes are on the income side. One of the things that we left the green and smaller parts have been able to do somewhat to criticize is the loss of income, or the way the government chooses to go, which includes. reduction of the rate of fishing by 2 billion, although we see very good results from year to year. It has not yet changed to them, in my opinion, that the price has to be reduced in this way. The community is not in a position to allow us to give up our income, and the bread gaming economy is not working. It has been shown that it is not something that brings to the community what people of independence prefer. That was not an explanation of 3 billion. less interest from Iceland and other sources. It was only according to some rules, and we'd like to have a better explanation for it. I hope it comes to us between conversations. I'd also like to go to the expense shifts, skimming on a big one. We were critical of it during spring or summer when a single process of building less than 2 billion for road construction, both for construction and for maintenance, was made, not because things were not to be done, but because of the way they were done. It was overlooked by all traditional means and through the government decision. Transporters and others were not asked. Then we have an overexploited transport plan, as it was put forward last spring, without any payment. It is not good to do what has been done, as we have repeatedly traced it. I am absolutely convinced that most members of a budget board are very at odds with the fact that so much predicted expenses come in here. I don't think there's any particular difference between classes. But the will to do better is what we have to do, and we need to try to make it necessary for the councilroom to avoid allowing this kind of planning, or rather, no planning, and doing things this way. That's why I think we're able to make a difference in how things are put in place. There is one interesting point on page 18. 51 of the budgets, which are taxing on goods and services. There, the value tax goes down by 2.4 billion and the income of taxes on goods and services falls to a total of over a billion. Others are about in the expected schedule. What makes you think of is that worth taxing is less paid, as it stands out, to a state fund when companies are in business problems and that changes in behavior are less slow than rolling on the tax stock. You think that it is kind of accepted that a company allows itself to pass this tax. That's not good. One large mail in this is health insurance. That's one of the things we've talked about repeatedly - when I say ◯ us, I mean both in the left greens and in the smaller parts - and I think it's important to make room for in the new public finance of the i.e. that it cannot be estimated too little, and then let it drop down in the New Year's season. It needs health insurance as well as other people to be estimated by some kind of knowledge. This also refers to the Regulation on expert physicians, which we have already identified at least twice with financial discussions. It had been prepared for regulations. They didn't let her take effect, I want to say, luckily, and that's fine. I commend the government for not letting that law take effect because it would have meant an increase in the cost to patients. But it doesn't change that it's been in the past for quite a long time and it should have been done on budgets for 2015, but not the budgets now, they should have been put into it. Other than that, a respectable president, one can pick out something that is not a budget at all. It's a shame after you've done all the talking about it. For example, I have pointed out both a special prosecutor and a district attorney. It was predicted that a case would not be accepted, which made the change a reality that the district attorney would be using the date of July 1. It would have been necessary to estimate. It also discusses the domestic flight, i.e. The flight we have sometimes called the strengthened flights, contracts that have been made, with too short time in my mind, to Bilddal, Gugurs, Hornfjörður, Gírít Islands, Weapons Farms, and Thorves. They're making it possible for them to finish their financial years and to fly to places like that. I sure hope we make up for a long time so that this flight can be built out of sense. Time is quick to go and much to discuss. I think the biggest mail I've ever wanted to come on is that I agree with what they said about both child support and growth. I would have liked to see the criteria moved rather than to assume that these funds would go back to the state fund because that's not what the senators were accepting, I believe. I agree with that criticism. I think that first and last time it's about that the government at one time has a more difficult plan so that it's not brought in a case that doesn't belong here. In fact, it will not be until the next term from the current level of government, since it is extensive and requires time in the system. Then all this should be pressed, and the budget should not be what it is here. I sure hope we can put this outside parentheses and make sure this isn't done this way, year after year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u56	A respectable president. I feel that in many ways I could repeat what I said last year on the topic of financial contributions. We're back on funding, where countless teams don't live because they're not unexpected. When we took up 1st. said the highest. A minister of finance would tell me that the matter had come to the council and then made a decision. I had this experience as if there were some factors in which men tried, but it would be the World Council, the legislature Authority, that made a decision. I hope it's up in my head in this case because I don't feel that I can talk about discipline and responsibility in a single word and then accept, for example, the funds for a tourist position in the other. It's not acceptable practice. There's only one thing to be cut. It is as if governments underestimate all too often. Then I am not just talking about the government, for this has been going through the years, although there has been a significant decrease in the post - collapse period, in part because there was just no money. This raises questions and concerns us because we are working on government financial laws that aim to have a good plan and plan ahead. If we cannot even plan ahead six months, such as the tourist economy, we are not really beyond hope. I want to point out a surrogate at the highest. Secretary of the budget, the highest. Well, Minister of Education, I want you to read the committee's opinion of the part from last year and meet a few people and listen to what we're saying, because we clearly met the nail. What do we see in the 2016 budget? Were not less than 150 million put in the tourism fund? It's like a bad joke. I'm sorry to be offended here, but I don't think it's acceptable. Here are some things that are understandable. It became a volcanic eruption, and something else has happened that could not be predicted. But there are too many people who have no business in money. I'm excited about the vote, since I'm going to see if the more part is on its feet in this case and if he will, for example. Accept the sector involved in the tourism budget. It'll be interesting to see it. There are two teams that attract my attention, which are medical care and clinics in Salatown, Kopavogi, which are being added because of some failure of the service contract criteria, more patients came than had been expected in financial terms. This raises questions about the medical station in Akureyri, which also had a service contract with the State, but Akureyri City paid with the medical department each year and received no compensation. This is something I'm gonna take a closer look at. It's only a 1st. and we'll call in guests. It is also a medical aid that we have criticized that financial contributions have not been made. It was a billion a year, and it is 1.1 billion this year. Qualifications were referred to as regulations. Since then, there has been some political decision not to do so, and there is a billion people missing. Funds for 2016 think I've cut this off, but two years in a row, this is a work programme. I think there's an unusual number of people at the State Department. It is true that many proverbial groups are complex and may not always be able to provide well. I think this is also an indication that we're not planning to do it. Perhaps the idea is always to try to have the budget as low as possible to demonstrate a baseless budget when laid out and then add when you see that it might be better than expected. I think it would be better if you'd rather estimate a little too much than be adding afterwards. We must ask ourselves, " Do I simply not have the tools to make sure that we know well enough or the information we need or what is going on? ' That's not good enough to be said. I'm not going to pick some special guys. I'm guessing 2nd. if we are a little more important, we will have some answers to some questions. I don't think I'm going to extend this discussion. These are old ghosts that I think we are once again. I think it's sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u57	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for budget money by 2015. Hence, it should be noted that the total balance of the total state funds will be 17,1 billion better than in the budgets of the year. The main explanation of this improved recovery consists of 15 billion higher money in the state funds, especially from Iceland's Bank. This is not, in fact, the first time to make money is greatly underestimated by financial contributions and unfortunately not the last. In the bill for 2016, it is obvious that the profit of Lands Bank has again been greatly underestimated. During the first nine months of the year, the economy of the Land Bank had become 24.4 billion and would not seem to reach 30 billion this year. The next year's budget, however, is expected to result in only 7.1 billion profits from the Bank of Lands, but it is now more likely to be at least 20 billion. Also, I'd like to point out that the national bank's financial capital is less than 30%, which is 8 percent higher than the minimum U.S. Marshals' standards. This means, in effect, that next year the Lands Bank could pay a special addition to a government fund that would give up to 8% of 252 billion personal funds. This, in turn, is close to 20 billion more than the additional 20 billion. So we're talking about instead of making a profit from the Lands Bank next year for 7 billion, as the 2016 budget says, it could turn into a total of 40 billion. So the lack of appreciation would be 33 billion, and it is important that we senators be informed about this likely mismanagement of the budget by 2016. It would most likely be that the Ministry would present correction before being reviewed at the council. A respectable president. I'm going back to the budget bill for 2015, which is here for us. I'd like to mention two points, one on the other, to purchase the stock of Asia's Investigation Bank and the other, plans to sell 30% of the state's property at the Bank of the Lands Bank next year. Let's start with the plans for sale of the government at the Lands Bank. In view of circumstances, it seems that if the goal is to obtain the highest possible price for the object, it would seem that it is not at all time for a government fund to sell 30% of the Kingdom's share next year. At this time, the Council of Copenhagen is looking for the buyers for the bank of Arion, and it is headed for the full possession of the state bank of Iceland in the near future. Probably it's more reasonable to sell an Iceland bank before the Lands Bank, but it's clear that the price of Arion's banks and Iceland banks will be worth hundreds of billions. If the government's share is added there, this 30% item, we may be talking about 400 billion that is being sold from banks in a very short time. To put this figure in perspective, I want to mention that the total market balance in the last year, 2014, was about 300 billion, the entire year. The remaining year, the first 10 months of this year, is 321 billion. It seems soon impossible to believe that the stock market can accept all of this from banks just as soon as possible. So if a good price is to be paid for the ownership of a government fund in the Lands Bank, it would likely be wise to wait with a plan to sell 30% in it. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has informed us that the Bank Office is working on a report on potential sales at the National Bank and that this report will be ready early next year. The bank of the land has paid very good money in the bank of the state. While the banking system remains stable and banks are in a position to earn the profits of the country's economy in shelter, there is little to indicate but that they will continue to make very good money. Is it not better, then, for this great profit to run into a government fund, using all the people of the country than in the pockets of a narrow group of private owners? Otherwise, the person standing here and the forwarding party and other groups have declared that it might be wise to change the land bank's policies so that the bank has more goals than it has to maximise the owner's interest. The National Bank may have the goal of promoting the competition in a bank market by offering a better loan and a lower amount of services, but other banks would have to fail by also lowering their expenses and expenditures. While such a mastery might reduce the interest fund of the Lands Bank something, the benefits of the population would be of an increased competition for bank service far higher than the sum of money. According to page 18. Forty-five of the budget bill is expected to sell a 30% holding part of the Lands Bank in 2016, which plans are considered completely untimely, including the year 2016. for the reasons I've been tracking here. A respectable president. The story then points to V. chapter of the bill, where sources are discussed. For example, it is requested by the Council to bind 2.5 billion in a foreign currency in the Asian Investment Bank, as shown on page 20. Sixty-three. There is no argument that justifys using as much as 17.6 million dollars as possible in the bank that will not be involved in the construction of a country. Nor does the State's financial cost be shown by participating in meetings and travel because of the bank's deposit of state funds. On the other hand, Iceland's vote will be less than 0.3% and our impact on the bank will be no, or the near future. Iceland may be a party to the European wood bank, who lost a lot of money last year. After the history of the case, I entered the highest. Secretary of finance on the basis of what would be expected the benefits of a state fund of participation in this Asian investment bank. V.E.G. In effect, the secretary of finance said that this would be an investment that might be expected to increase the value but also that the bank had fallen to the road of the Icelandic company to share in the work of the bank in its territory, which could be said to be in Asia and Oceania. But is it part of a government fund to bet on the increase in shares in foreign banks? Is a government fund supposed to tie money to taxpayers in such a way? Is a trust fund being paid to pay off the streets of Icelandic engineering companies? Can these engineering companies not pay that cost for themselves? Is it not enough to demand an Icelandic wisdom abroad, even though we do not bind the taxpayers in the Asian bank? And would these export companies be willing to pay their own military expenses? It may be that the United States and Japan have decided not to be part of this Asian investment bank and various environmental organizations have expressed concern that the bank will not be enough to care for environmental matters. Hence, it seems that there is an urgent need to secure the currency of the state in a foreign bank that has no business in this country and is very uncertain about the benefits of the investment of the funds but, in the same way, the desire to sell the share of the state into a bank that is doing an important business here and makes very much money in the state fund. A respectable president. I think it's very difficult to justify the investment of state funds in the Asian Investigation Bank, and I propose to the General that the warrant is not granted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u58	A respectable president. I listened to a talk. But he again discussed his idea of the so - called community bank. I have to admit that I think that idea is quite the strangest thing to say, even though my intentions are probably good. It's about the state's supposed to have banks that are supposed to be better than all the other banks and to be competitive. There are some questions that arise because I haven't had a chance to ask why. A senator. First of all, I ask, "Have a reason." A senator will examine whether such a course meets a competitive law? Second, if I recall correctly, this is the idea of an apartment loan fund that has cost us taxpayers, which is equivalent to one new hospital on a direct charge. I hope we can see the end of it, but that's not exactly what it is. That's question number two, then. A senator does not think that they fear. And third, I say for myself that there are many things that I think could be better in Iceland when it comes to professional activity, competition, and other activities that are vital to us. Counts 'em out. A senator that we should take up more business in order to compete more effectively than just banking?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these excellent questions, which are very good. It's good to have a chance to answer them here. Do I believe that a community bank would violate competitive law or perhaps some law on illegal government support, for example? That depends exactly on how this would be done. If this was wrong, it can be seen in some way that it could conflict with the government law, for example, if one intends to pump money from a government fund in order to finance such a bank in competition with other banks, but that is certainly not what we are offering. They are suggesting that rather than being the Lands Bank has the goal of maximizing its profits, it will bring up more and more social goals. Of course, this is not being suggested as a loss - a violation of a state's grant. The idea is to increase the number of goals, to put him in charge of reducing his expenses, to reduce the cost of his customers in the form of a variety of services, and to include other banks. He's not being suggested to be fired with a loss. The apartment loan fund certainly lost money. He was on state rent. Can we conclude, then, that all banks in government will lose money? I'm not convinced of that. There were many private banks here. They lost much more money, but the apartment loans and the damages of society were far more. Should we conclude, then, that all privateized banks lose money? I don't think so. I think it's way too simple. I think it really is, so it doesn't necessarily matter what it is. The third question: Do I see the opinion that countries have bigger businesses than banks? My answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. He said that this must be done properly and that the bank should not be paid for. But that's what the government fund has done, the bank's already paid off. One project in terms of the camp loan fund turns to the conclusion that competition laws are not to be violated. So it is not so good that it can be said that it should be done in the right way. It was the goal of an apartment loan to provide a more favorable mortgage than the banks could. The answer came to be what we know. Then there's the collapse of the bank and the collapse of real estate. We may not be allowed to risk it right there, and we may not be too busy to do so now. But if we are very big at the bank market, we have double risks, one system risk, and then the taxpayers we've put in the banks. It's been tried and tried all over and not just in this field - luckily, you're quick to forget. Here was a Kingdom printery, Gutenberg, to make it possible for the people of the land to get the printing work at a better price than for some reason in Western countries, after a great crisis, to see that government business is not successful. And I don't think it's changed now. What we need to do because of reason. A senator named a private bank, is considering how to minimize the risk of banking on the taxpayer. It may well be that me and him. A senator would agree on various matters, but I think that this market was mostly competitive, not growing, of state. I've never seen him work to achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u61	A respectable president. The government, of course, gave the Bank money, both loan and money, and I don't know any better than on these loans was interest, market interest, and the money paid in cash. So there's no state strength in it. I mean, with an apartment loan fund, the problem is, like, what is it? A senator knows that he accepted advice from a private firm on how to finance himself. They advised him to give out an unrepencable bond, and he accepted that advice. In this way, he could gain even more expensive funding. This is the big problem, this is the camp loan fund's problem, that he can't pay up his financing when his customers choose to pay off the loans they borrowed from him. There's little to say that the apartment loan fund is a government company. Then the question is, What makes the banks different from any other company? Why am I here talking about maybe it's wise to have one big bank? The Iceland banking environment is such that there are three banks that are too large to fall. The country's bank is one of them, and most of them all, and most of them, inevitably the State is responsible for this bank. Our community would not be able to stand for this bank to retire. However, it is tolerated by some printer's leaving the operation; it is only going to the hands of new owners. The same is true of an oil company or such, even if it is a large company, the private market can respond to it. But when a bank goes down or gets into trouble, maybe our money system will stop. We will no longer be able to do business in all the other companies. We cannot buy, sell goods, or even go to the pharmacy to buy drugs. Therefore, the state will always come in and save the banks, whether in private or in state stable. By privatizing a bank, we are privatizing the profits and the areas of the world unless one is able to do so much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator has spoken about community banks and has produced suggestions in his political party in this regard. I think it's interesting, but I'm not sure I understand exactly what's going on. A senator applies exactly when speaking of a community bank. Now it may be a complicated matter to explain, but I'd like to pray. A senator trying to cross it with me what that means. For example, such a community bank should have some social role, as it has been thought of, i.e. borrowing, e.g. to house - to - house shopping in a country where it is clear that the price of the house will never reach the cost of building, for example? The banks have not been impressed with loans to housing, residence buildings in the country just because if the borrower is not paying the loan, the bet is not worth the bank's expenses. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to talk about such a role or mixed up a role or at ease. A senator who was involved in such a bank in cultural activity in his surroundings or in the building of sceptre companies? Watch your step. In short, what does a senator mean by a bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u63	A respectable president. Thank you for the question. I don't think I can fully explain it in a short answer, but in a very short and simple form it can be said that community banks such as those who are excrementing themselves in many parts of the world, consider it their role to support the building of the real economy rather than being in financial circles and investments that have very little connection with real employment or valuables. There's an enormous difference between the two. A great deal of the banking activity that we have seen developed in recent decades does not involve investing in jobs and creating new valuables, but rather the buying and selling of already existing valuables at an ever higher price, or the possibility of bacteria that are betting on how some other product develops. It is a bank operation that is not related to improving our standard of living or that makes up a job or food or anything else that is useful. Rather, these banks have become some sort of money - playing casino. Social bank is not involved in such a money casino. He looks around at his neighboring community in Iceland and says: "How can I reach the construction of this community? We need a bank to do that. We need to borrow from banks to build houses, schools, factories, or to promote all kinds of innovation. There's always need someone around the bank, some depositors giving up money, and maybe I'd like to know what they're investing in. They no longer want to be blind to what money goes on and what kind of investment is involved. Surprisingly, though it may seem, these community banks have yielded more money to the length than the fortune - tellin' banks that are always hatching and falling. It's a research project, because the real economy is a pretty solid investment option. [[The president calls.]] You might think of this longer talk, but I can see that my time is running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I find this very interesting. If Iceland is about to have one bank, we'll start talking about how we want the banking system in Iceland, and then I think there's a very likely idea. The senator will be examined and considered in neighboring lands, e.g. Northern countries where such banks are successfully operated, from what I understand. Hv. A senator here mentioned the number of banks and criticized that we are selling items at the Bank of Lands. If I remember correctly on the budget bill, 35 billion people who should come in to pay off the debt of state funds to sell something -- I don't remember how big it was. Counts 'em out. A senator that there is any chance that the object planned to sell at the Lands Bank will sell on merits, as estimated in financial terms? That's what I'm talking about. A senator knows what things happen in banks? I understand only banks are under the names of the countries around us. Is there any chance that things in Icelandic banks are likely to increase the price or count the cost? A senator that we could possibly throw in some sales profits at banks for some time now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u65	A respectable president. I don't trust myself to evaluate whether things in Iceland's banks sell for or over valuables. I don't trust myself to go out in that discussion, thinking that it's out of my way to discuss it or think about it. I'm aware of the value of abroad. On the other hand, in the end, it is only demand and supply; what do buyers want to buy and what do sellers want to sell? Often, that is what counts. There's not a very active market for banks in Iceland, and maybe not in foreign lands. But because of him. A senator mentioned a discussion about how we want to conduct the banking system in the future. I think now it's an opportunity for us as a nation to reorganize the banking system so that our community will be more and more useful to us forever. Everyone agrees that the banking system is way too big for our community. We have huge banks that are too big to fall and have some kind of blackmail for government funds and taxpayers. It is impossible to cope permanently with such conditions. We need to use this opportunity to divide the banks into basic building blocks, which are then smaller, in business banking units, investment banking units, apartment bonds. Then I think it would be beneficial if banks weren't assigned to operate the money system in the country. We should not have a private crown as we already have, but we should move it to the Federal Bank to care for both the publishing and the publishing of the deeper points we have to use in all our business dealings. By doing so, we could create less unity, a unity that is more competitive than any other, and each one would not be dangerous to the community if it was misdirected. It should be trading banks into business banks, investment banks, and apartment loans and taking the power of money from banks. This would be a very big step toward making a safe and normal environment in banks that served the community but did not create danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u66	A respectable president. The discussion is often something special here. In the discussion about the fundraiser, we actually fell in the discussion about community banks. I must admit that I feel, more dignified President, I hope I don't get much fault, it's a little like Groundhog Day that I don't know the translation. If they read a report of the Allied Committee on the Bank of Camps, they can see a very similar discussion. At that time, I was accused of taking up the matter of an apartment loan repeatedly. That was the charge. I warned of things that were involved in a camp loan fund and fought for it, and was ashamed of bloody shame for daring to discuss myself with an apartment loan because the apartment loan was a community bank, he was not an ordinary bank, and this should only be understood. He was not to be criticized for anything specific. That's why he was, for example, in the past. Except for SEC follow-up. There's a lot of simplicity in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson to have this theory about apartment loans. Because he was a community bank, he was much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u67	It's not a community bank, it's a state bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u68	- Hey, hey. A senator, now it's like, with all due respect, that you're recently in the area, but I've been here for a while. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm just urging you to read this report. I can lead you through the key chapters because all this discussion was taken and all the warnings were ignored. We know the results. I'm gonna let myself take the same warning as before when people are about to start with ideas about a new community bank. It's gone to a higher credit rate. There was a competition with the private banks at an apartment loan market. It was a special goal to keep the market share. Apart from the banks we compare ourselves with in other countries, for example, in other parts of the North. Men can read my Senate talks about it. When I examined it in my day, people tried to take certain factors, such as the cold areas in which we compare ourselves, making sure that the government would intervene for the people who were building houses or buying houses and not borrowing because there was a market failure and banks were not willing to lend. We did so differently here, with consequences we know. I don't think it took an apartment loan to lend off other banks. With regard to the overall risk of the banking system, we should discuss more - these banks face a serious system hazard, such as the dog. A senator came in. We can say that this is a problem in Western lands. The United States has less scope for banking, which is good, but we in Europe have a regular work from the European Union, which actually goes out on two things, on the one hand, an internal insurance system that has become highly expedient in the European Union and is now a state responsibility across the past, and on the other hand, we have a system risk that makes it possible for the bank users, as it has been shown in the European Union, to all were actually saved. Some banks went under, but many were rescued. Americans who did it. If we look at the bigger picture: In order to minimise the temptations of bank owners, for they know that they will be saved, we have a complex monitoring system to prevent banking failure. It hasn't worked out. In fact, after the last bank collapse, 2008, there were some rules that did not change the failure of banks after the new rules arrived. For example, a large Dutch bank, Fortis, broke down a few weeks after he passed his new awesome stress test. This is something we should discuss because these are big issues. It is quite clear that even if you give the State a competitive and banking business, they are not trying to minimize the risk but to increase it even more. Despite everything, bank owners and crew owners, the banks, the largest cost of the bank crash. They lived with the biggest account. I thought it was fair because they took the risk. If we had taken routes like other European nations and the United States, the taxpayers would have been much larger. We're discussing the bonus. The money to be paid is due to unexpected expenses, e.g. Natural disasters and such. There are a number of things here that are in that way. There are also many pleasant things I don't think could have been estimated. How we must rejoice and boast! Government and supreme. Minister for seeing interest rate decrease by 5,700 million. K. What a joy that must be! The big movie's really good. However, there are a number of things, such as those that came e.g. ... pastthewrong. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's granddaughter, which we should have assumed. True, I don't agree with all of that. I mentioned earlier that we could not provide for natural disasters that need not be multiplied. As a result, financial contributions have gone up as far as I'm concerned about the Waterland Park, the EEA, Human Action Agency and the Weather Service. I think it's a pleasure, but it's not a problem that children's compensation and growth improvements are down. It cannot be a goal for people to gain compensation. In a society of dreams, all had a high salary that they were not entitled to child development and growth. That would be an amazing piece of work. We cannot approach it in such a way that there is a need for compensation with all available and impossible options. So I don't understand the criticism. Hv. paritaprevir St. Pétursdóttir's daughter, Brynhilldur, spoke of the Health Care Department in Kópavogi, and put up with the health care department in Akureyri. It differs from one another because there is a model in the Salatown, which was done years ago, and it has been good for taxpayers and those who receive the ministry. Studies have repeatedly shown this. I think we should take that model up on an increasing scale. So a model isn't in Akureyri, as far as I know. Then people can rightly point out that the projection can be better, even though there are only 20 million. The same can be said of health insurance, as we have seen here. There was a deal with expert physicians to clear that up. Prior to consultation with expert physicians, the financial share of the patients was very high. Then it could not be controlled. While expert physicians or other such classes are uncontracted, they can present the prices they want. They're not part of any contracts. They have a specific amount from the state, and the patient pays the difference. There were contracts to severely reduce the patient's expense share. However, the government increased the cost share of the patients and did not change the regulation as agreed. Of course, if humans were to do so, they should have seen it now and do so. If people criticize the agreement with expert physicians, they are talking about us changing significantly from the system we now have and having the double health system, much like the one of dentists not long ago until the last government, under the lead of former Ministers, the Guðbjartur - fearing son of Hannesson, made a contract with dentists. There were very expensive contracts, but I think most of us are very happy that dentists made that deal. If you don't want to deal with experts, whether dentists or others, they're talking about a major system change, so that you're completely aware of that. Then there is a one - side bill of government, and that they pay the difference, no matter who it is. On the other hand, treaties make it necessary for an expert to have the cost of not more than a certain amount, and as a result, the expense department of the patient is established. A respectable president. There's some old ghosts in here, too. It is completely incomprehensible to us Icelanders, who are part of the human race who first went to the moon in 1968, have not yet been able to create a swing fund when it comes to a snowstorm in Iceland. I don't think that's a project that's too big to figure out. I hope we'll never see this in any of the budgets again. I'm sure it'll snow in Iceland, sometimes a lot and sometimes a little. It should not be difficult to estimate over a period of time so that when snow is low, it can be transferred from year to year, but when large snow can use snow. The Ministry of State has 250 million for humanitarian purposes, which I think is unpredictable. I don't think they could have seen the tide of refugees coming. There are more old ghosts here, for example. We're going to the sailors. There's something we're going to do, and The Kingdom Radio's gonna take care of it. The government radio gets 45 million on the budget, and it's better than that. Similarly, according to Unit 7.11, it is permitted to negotiate with the city of Reykjavík for an organization and to sell on land rights at the top of Reykjavík, at the end of the list, the value of the RUV ohf. This is a new one to reduce society's debt. This is where we're talking about a lot of money. It has to be said to the top right now. Indeed, the government has set priorities for the State Radio, as shown by the report on the Government Radio. It will not yet be seen to meet the conditions set in the last budget on an additional supply of 181.9 million. K. to the State Radio, which was required to agree at the end of March 2015. I don't know that it was done, but I do know that the information we received on the budget board from the head of the state radio, as I've mentioned before, was not correct. There will be no change to that, more dignified president. It is important, however, that we take together now what is involved in the Kingdom News and work together in both the budget and the budget. It will only be seen that selling property rights and using to pay off the State Radio debt will significantly improve the interests of the Kingdom News. Of course, it belongs to taxpayers, and its property is not to be sold lightly. It is up to the council to decide on their behalf. We're talking about a substantial amount of money, which, of course, will make the government much easier. Away from what humans think about individual organizations, whatever they are, it is important that we arrange matters so that the business will be self-sustained and stable. The same must be true for all institutions. It's been discussed here that we should be disciplined in terms of government matters and make plans for a long time, but then we have to leave it in force over every institution. The same rules must apply to all of them. True, I can see things in the budget that might be lost, but everything is done with good intentions. I think we think that most of the things money is put into it are necessary and good. This does not change the fact that if we are going to get to the place where the standard of living is best in the world, we will not do so without disciplining the money. This is essential to stability. [[The president calls.]] We need to talk things out of respect, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There are a number of things to do to ask him about. Hv. At the beginning of his speech, a senator said it was like a Groundhog Day. I have to say that my feelings are exactly the same when I read the budget bill, because there's just old ghosts, and the budget is still being used to start new projects, projects that everyone realized would need to put money in. I want to ask you why. A senator's feelings about such planning, so I'll take just a direct example, a plan in the tourism fund, which is being dealt with by 850 million people. K. a donation. What do you think? A senator of such a plan and that it repeats itself over and over again? Counts 'em out. A senator said that there is something more likely to happen. Since a government cannot abide by these laws on income, does the law apply to public financial matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u70	A respectable president. Of course, when I mentioned Groundhog Day, I was discussing the apartment loans and the community banking talk because I feel like I'm taking the exact same discussion right now about the ideas of a community bank that we took over the apartment loans during the last terms. So it didn't change my speech then went on to criticize that there were some things that weren't unexpected and should have been estimated, and I'm not going to add anything to it. I reviewed a lot of factors that were involved because it doesn't matter what government is in power, we are to be critical of what it is. The big picture is very good, and much has been done very good, so we are without doubt on the right path. The short answer to the second question, whether I consider it to be more likely to improve further, is:
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u71	Mr. President. I'm not as carefree as a dog. Senator. I'm worried that if you can't follow these fiscal laws, they won't do any more of this. Hv. A senator here spoke of child reform and how happy it is for them to be reduced. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes it is justified - as the situation in this country has shown, for example, the surveys have shown. with information on the poverty of children and the status of some children's families in this country - that children's benefits start to be cut off by 200 you. K. a month's pay for an individual and at 400 yous. K. a month's pay for married couples. Got it. In diagnostic situations, do many children's families show that we have this standard? I ask him if he agrees with me in that we need to pick them up and change them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u72	A respectable president. So men have the prince's terms for the improvement: The reason they're down is because salary is higher than expected. How we must rejoice in it! If the power of money is growing among family members and others, we must rejoice in it. If everyone had increased pay so that no one had the lowest current salary - the nature of the case as far as it is concerned - there are always some with the lowest salary, but the aim is to increase - so the improvement will be substantially reduced. That's a very important thing. That's what matters. I don't understand the importance of trying to make things right. Wouldn't anyone rather get people's commercial powers up and up? That's your goal, isn't it? At least that's the goal I wanted to see. This financial bill also puts on a number of things that help a child's family. Customs have been canceled, and customs and such things are now being replaced, and we should continue on this course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u73	Madam President. I'd like to make comments on why. A senator about an apartment loan fund. To me, he has nothing to do with the idea of community banking as a matter of course. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson and others have talked about it. The apartment loan fund is an official mortgage that has obligations to all the people of the country, regardless of where they live. In the past, largely because of failures in the past, the government's financial loans were paid unworked, but the funding was fixed. This was done during the reigns of an independent party and a forwarding party, and about 90% of the loans, to the extent that they have affected the financial resources of the apartment, the same was done in the administrative community. Finally, I think it's unfair to discuss a camp loan fund, so that people do not consider to themselves that it could possibly happen but that after the collapse, he would get hit by something like other financial institutions. I think it's a little cheap not only to pay off an apartment loan fund but also the idea of a community bank because the experience of a camp loan fund is so bad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u74	A respectable president. It may well be. A senator feels the other thing, and it doesn't matter that this is exactly the same thing that humans are talking about, I know it very well, because I took that conversation at the time. I also have a fine attitude. At the time of the forwarding party and the Independence Party, there were changes. A senator rightly mentioned. And it would have been better for critical thinking to have been in the camp loan operation back then, for the exact same ideas are involved, that is exactly the same good goals that humans had. When the change was going on at a time not many people warned, it certainly was not a reason. controlling the situation at the time of the warning. Actually, it was why. government opposition to the one standing here repeatedly for daring to discuss an apartment loan fund in a critical way. The reason this loss is all in the state is because it was a federal bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u75	Madam President. I'm not gonna take care of it. A senator like him took care of it. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejosson, who had been so brief in the Generals that he needed to take a closer look at these matters. Of course, I could say what. Senator: I've been to Congress longer than what I've been doing. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, who knows this even further, even sat in the administration of the State's Househies at one time. [[Up front.]] I therefore care that this work is not being traced down for the sole reason that it is under the State's responsibility or under its cover. I'd probably like to review it on the subject. Of course, it is heavy what has happened to be running up a base with an apartment loan fund, but some personal trauma would have always been somewhere in the community because of the mortgage, if not in a private banking system somewhere else. The camp loan fund played a very important role when others were not available for distribution and are, in fact, still doing so. Hv. In fact, a senator mentioned it that in some areas there are market failures and banks that are not in line to lend. It is true that we have made a political decision to take some of the risks of the state of which we have borrowed money in areas where the real estate market is weak. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u76	A respectable president. It's totally undisputed. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has been in the area much longer than I. It should be readily acknowledged. I think it was a black and white TV when it happened. A senator was first elected, at least I remember. Back in the days of the sport, a black/white TV senator. In any case, the controversy that was taken for an apartment loan fund was this. Sadly, the camp loan fund was to be everywhere, not just where there were market failures. In the northern part of the world, people focused on dealing specifically with the issue of marketing failure. Unfortunately, we did not go that way. They wanted to keep for some reason a market share of state funds with the same logic as here for better terms, etc. It's the same talk, but they were just going to do it differently. Therefore, the SEC was not allowed to monitor the activities of apartment loans. I know this discussion very well, because I took it back then. [[The president calls.]] That is why when the shock came, it all landed in the state because we taxpayers owned the bank and were responsible for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u77	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the team we're likely to agree not to be unexpected and should not be on this bill if things were the way we would like them to be; with more responsibility and planning ahead and so forth. But when it comes to voting, the senators will always agree with their stewards, except perhaps in one case that I remember. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that it is right for the council to lower its foot here, e.g. About the tourist market fund, the screaming example that was supposed to provide? Only six months have passed since the approval of the budget and until the budget has been established. That's what I'm talking about. Of course, a senator agreed that this is a part of the councilroom that we should not accept as entering a budget and that he would vote against this team? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's brawn for a good spot, though I feel nothing comfortable getting it. That's exactly what we're talking about. What's the point? The General? We've tried a lot of things. For example, we have put warnings on certain organizations because they have not been on sustainable business, for example. We've taken a few things out of the interest of little popularity and a lot of fighting. Much of the legal committee has been able to do so and to receive little thanks, but it is not a goal to have someone thank you. But this, of course, is a question, for all of us agree on our goals, and then we are short of standing by when it comes to it. All I have to do is set this thing down because we're going to review these matters, and that's what we're going to do, for this is the Committee work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u79	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. That's right, we'll call for more information. Of course, we are in the position that this money has been spent, and in most cases it has been destroyed without the approval of the General, so we are set against a wall. On the other hand, I feel that the council must send a clear message, and that doesn't make any difference from saying, "Hey, no, we said that last year, meeting, and now. If you have not read the committee opinion or listened to our talks, it is only your problem. But this kind of work doesn't work. I would feel that way in the spirit of a legal committee, since I feel that we have been working on increasing the discipline and speaking to each other. We have worked well together in regard to our public finances, and we agree on their importance. We're supposed to break down our feet and say, "No, I'm sorry, this isn't how it works. But I feel like the Ministers are laughing at us here on the other side of the deck. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u80	A respectable president. I don't completely agree with the last words, to the top. Ministers are laughing back there. I think we aim in the right direction, I don't think there's any doubt of that. I still feel that the message from most members of the Parliament is not completely clear when it comes to government discipline. I think it's something so that when it rains. Government opposers, I'm not gonna mention any names, I hope I'm sorry - that when it's popular to speak in certain institutions or parties, it's done. Thus, I feel that there is a lack of solidarity to the goals that arise. A senator mentioned here. But we will only change it with a very broad political solidarity, as we saw, me and the other. A senator, when we went to Sweden and studied these matters regarding public financial matters. There is a transnational agreement on legal discipline in terms of government. This isn't the case. It's in words, not on a table. Hv. Government opposers also need to take a look at themselves, for this is not just about our share. [[The president calls.]] Let's hope we get better results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. I have one question that is technical because in my speech earlier today, I pointed to an error of 15 billion that could be obvious, i.e. lack of appreciation for interest in the Bank of America at 15 billion in budgets for 2015 which we are now correcting in 2015 budgets. Now it is predictable that in the 2016 budget it is even bigger, perhaps 20 or even 30 billion. It's predictable before we discuss the budget. What does it want? The vice president of the legal committee? What do they usually do about these matters here at the council? I just want to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u82	A respectable president. I'll always be so honest when I talk to you. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, as you may have noticed earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u83	It's so good for you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u84	Yeah, yeah. A senator has a good influence on me. I'm very honest with you when I say my favorite fuck-ups are when we get a lot more money than we planned. If I understand the methodology correctly, my chief. A minister has reviewed it here, so the Bank Office will bring her food before making a decision and it will be put into the budget. Of course, it's a lot of error, but I think it's better when people are cautious about this than the other. I'll admit, of all the joints that are aggravated, unfortunately, this doesn't bother me at all. I don't know if we should change this methodology. Since we're with Bank County, I don't know who else to bring in the plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u85	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I'm not quite comfortable with this plan. I think we should try to keep this as good as possible. If the Bank Office has failed to arrive at a more reasonable conclusion year after year, then of course the Ministry needs to do something about it, review it, or get another opinion. It is obvious that this is all wrong and has been a long time. I think we should correct this before we accept the law. Then there is the matter of the Asian Investigation Bank. I understood the senator's speech so that he was very opposed to any government on banks and that he didn't think it any sense to have a bank. Does he not, then, object to the fact that the State is meddling with some inner investment bank in Asia? He is truly a state bank, it's only government funds that have in him. The only difference between the two is that a community bank here at home would be of great benefit to the entire public in Iceland, but this investment bank in Asia will only be useful to some plant in vents, not to the public in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] How can he justify supporting this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u86	A respectable president. Given the occasion, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there was a why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson to criticize the Bank County, and I'm defending it so that it's totally put in the Senate news that it came to pass. Since we're with Bank County, I think we'll have to trust her to make these plans. Regarding the Asian bank, however, it has come because it is supposed to be an antidote to the Bretton Woods institutions set up at the end of the last war. It was the World Bank Fund and the Development Fund and GATT that became the International Business Office. I think all the European states are inside this. However, the United States and Japan have refused to do so and have suggested that we should not participate in this bank. If I get this straight, we're with the European Union in this matter, and we can totally have opinions about it. [[The president calls.]] I can't go over it all at this minute, but maybe I'll have a chance to do that later, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u87	A respectable president. Investors and how they have been used have often been criticized. With law No. 88/1997, on government income, and in a report by that bill, the Allied Council set out a clear policy on the role and content of budgets. This includes assuming that all predictable budgets are provided in financial terms but that financial contributions within the budget will be sought for sources of resources that could not be provided under budget management. According to the budget of the budget, such budgets are primarily designed to address the inevitable issues, particularly the unscheduled incidents, the effects of new labour agreements or new legislation in the year, but not for plans for new projects, increased scope of activities, or, for example, the management of the individual institutions over the set budget, as it is recommended in the law to refer such guidelines on the changes in budgets for the next year's budget. Sad to say, people have often been tempted to go beyond the frameworks that have been developed for financial contributions and added all kinds of subjects that have more to do with money and not money. It is urgent to change this and to place needed discipline on all legal arrangements. The 2015 budget set the second year for bringing in the total balance of the budget or the equivalent of 3.5 billion dollars. This year's budget has been revised by Iceland's Work Office on Economic Opposites in June and in view of new information on the development of commercial institutions and spending major problems in the early part of the year. It is not easy to see that the contribution of the State Fund will be considerably better than that set aside in current financial laws. The bill thus assumes that total income will increase by 26.4 billion. from the budget and to the total budgets for spending up to 9.4 billion dollars. It is thus estimated that the total amount of waste will be 20.6 billion. in 2015 or in 17.1 billion k. It's better at the base of business than under the budget. The majority of the improved resources from funds are explained by about 15 billion dollars. more money from financial institutions than had been expected on the basis of budgets, especially from Iceland's Bank. There are about three sources in Article 4. The bill for financial support, often called 6. The path to the program "smb4k_umount" The source is divided, so one is available to buy or rent property, and two are subject to various sources. This is a request for permission to purchase or rent a suitable home for the office of the district attorney and the district attorney. Since the U.S. attorney general's office has established its residence at 6 Hfflókt, the Agency is therefore obliged to find another suitable home during the year. The regional district attorney's office has been established following legal changes in the order of the cases involving the district attorney's office in the country. It is vital that we prepare for the inspection of the new office, and I do not comment on it. Then there is a request for a warrant linked with a source for Iceland's involvement in the Asian Investigation Bank, which was discussed earlier at a meeting of the bank found in Beijing on June 30. The bank is an investment bank, which, in many respects, is comparable to the European Development Bank and operates on a commercial foundation. The Financial and Economic Ministry handles international financial companies of this kind under the President's section on the switch between administrations at Iceland's Management Board. Iceland's share is expected to be 17.6 million dollars or 0.01% of stock money equivalent to about 2.3 billion dollars. Iceland's vote will be 0.2778%, which is more than 15-fold compared to Iceland's stock market. The 5th of the stock money will be deposited, but the 4/5 part of the stock stock is an endogenous stock. The subsidies of the deposit system is paid by five equally. The first takes place 30 days after the bank starts working, the next year of payment, and the rest will be paid annually thereafter. Funds for 2016 therefore apply for access to $100 billion. K. and is expected to pay the same amount annually for the next four years. Now it may be possible that this Asian investment bank could be a good tool for us, including Icelandic exports. In itself, I haven't done anything about it. It should be noted, then, that our power, or influence, within this bank will not be at all or anywhere, as well as that activity seems to be primarily aimed at strengthening the interior of countries of Asia. When we share funds, we always have to ask ourselves questions. Where is the government's best - paying money? Maybe it's in that bank. I just have no idea, and I don't think most of us here have any idea if this contribution of ours will give us anything. The funds request a warrant related to the sale of VOLV ohf. on construction rights on society property. The benefits of the entire sale for RUS Ohf. estimates are about 1.5 billion. but he is determined by the final confirmation of the network of the region. The warrant is suggested to the value of parts of VOLV Ohf. because of the deal going on to reduce the society's debt to benefit the Society and the state as its owner and carer. Certainly it is urgent to reduce the debt of the State Radio and reorganize the business. Unfortunately, the debate has become a fan of society's unique divisions, and it's a shame. There is no waiting to discuss the future of SpVV, a discussion of the nation's activities. It matters what the people want in this regard. The request is 60 billion. K. supplementary development due to the accumulated problems of several music schools in Reykjavík. This is attributable to the year 2009 when the city of Reykjavík announced a major cutdown on music scholarships and to meet the local community's wishes for musical support, the State and the rural communities made an agreement to promote musical education in May 2011. According to that, 4,80 million were granted by the State. K. every year, as an adjunct to high school training costs for high grade and high-level singing. On the contrary, the rural communities committed themselves to taking over a new government assignment of equal to 230 billion. K. every year. The 480 million each year's pay is not enough, including the fact that more students were enrolled in the study of music. Soon after the agreement, it was found that the educational cost of several music schools had grown beyond the anticipated date and was responded by adding 40 million to the budgets in 2013. Among other things, increased cost was the fact that more students had been enrolled in the music school, longer hours, and more payoffs than expected. If the state agreed to contribute, the state has added additional donations each year, making a contribution to this school now totals some 520 million. K. every year. The meeting song on growing music was originally made for two years, but it has been extended twice with an Annex and has covered the last extension at the end of 2014. A new agreement has not been made, and it has to be concluded that the funding of music study is entirely responsible for the community. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson's son's godship is suggested to provide 45 million. K. a contribution to the services of the Norwegian communications company Telenor in 2015 and, in part, for 2014, due to the digital radio and TV broadcasts on satellite. The users of this service are seafarers in the regions of Iceland, homes in rural areas outside the standard distribution system of RUS and Iceland in the North countries. Now they have a contract with Telenor for the last few years. Remunerations were to be performed on the basis of services now, but once again it is included in budgets and it is desirable to get clear how this service will be performed in the future. There are indications that the State Department's budget will be increased by 247 billion. K. and a major contribution to development and international support. These are contributions to support international institutions and relief organizations working with refugees abroad, such as refugee institutions, Children's Help, Emergency Fund, and United Nations Food Support. Among other things, money will be used to buy food, medicine, and tools, as well as to support the work at the wheel of the Red Cross of Iceland. There are positive steps, and there is reason to commend the government for how well she has dealt with this issue. It's suggested that 850 million be caught. K. additional contributions to the development and protection of tourist attractions, owned or supervised by the State. The construction of these places focuses primarily on the making of footpaths, view windows, parking lots, and toilet facilities. As the number of tourists increases, the need for construction and maintenance of infrastructure at tourist locations has become urgent. In view of the delay in working on transport funding projects, the need to respond to this need in the current year by means of public donations from the state funds has been delayed. But it doesn't work like this anymore, like we're doing it. How long should we wait for the future order of these matters to take place? We, members of Parliament and the General Assembly of the whole Icelanders are disappointed that the financing of tourist attraction cannot be reached. The number of tourists is multiplying, and we don't do anything exactly. There's no future, just short-term signs. I'm just going to mention the cost of public affairs. A total of 705 million. K. increased in these joints. The second is 407 billion. K. increase in input, according to the year's results and, on the other hand, almost 300 million. K. increase due to the decision of the Court of Justice on a significant increase in the defenses. The financial cost of public affairs is all the expense paid by police officials, district courts and district attorneys other than the officials of the government on the basis of research and public affairs. The financial cost is the part of the legal fee made by the defendant to pay according to the police attorney's fines and on the other hand, to pay on the court's judgment or to the court's decision. The expenditures for these joints were substantially higher than budgets between 2012 and 2014. Legal expenses are the largest cost and weigh about 50% of the total cost, but legal costs have gone up substantially in recent years, among other things, because of financial failures. Between 2011 and 2014, these costs have increased by 126% or from 260 billion. K. of 590 million. K. Finally, I'd like to mention a little bit about Vega and health insurance. Some 1,139 million is suggested. K. additional efforts to maintain the well - being of congregations tilting the vengeful service team of Roadmakers. Over the past few years, there has been a severe limp that is mainly explained by winter service, which was about 1,139 million. K. at the beginning of 2015 In recent years significant spending has been needed to meet the costs of road construction winter services beyond financial resources. The 2013 budget contained 700 million. K. Documents given to this team, as well as 500 million. K. a total of 1,200 million projects. K. Nevertheless, the conclusion was that by the end of the year 900 billion remained. K. beyond expenses. Then, in 2012 allowances, there were 420 million. K. contribution due to a decline in winter service in that year. The 2014 budget then contained a total of 1,150 million. K. For winter services, additional contributions are made. The bill for budget 2016 also accounts for 800 million. K. increase in contributions due to this service. A review of snowcapped arrangements and the scope of the service level is being made so that 800 million are being made. K. In addition to the financial support it provides, it is enough to keep the road to the service force within the budget. Now it is so difficult to evaluate needed funds for snow or snowstorm and other such, but constant evaporation requires that these cases be reviewed and that the laws themselves become closer to reality. The experiences of the past few years teach us that we have underestimated the necessary contributions to that seminary. Finally, I'd like to say that there is a total increase of 2,137 million on health insurance budget. K. and will be explained by two things. At the one hand, expenses are expected to be 1,172 billion. K. beyond financial resources due to a contract with expert physicians, however, the total expenses are expected to increase by 965 billion. K. due to a reassessment of the estimated expenses of the joint in 2015. [[The president calls.]] Costs for health insurance have gone under the budget as long as I remember. Here are just two suggestions, reevaluating the role of Medical Security, or planning the right thing to do. [[The president calls.]] The money box must never become a garbage chest to provide what one is reluctant to take into the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u88	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a bill for budget money by 2015. V.E.G. The minister of finance did well to oversee its purpose. A lot of what? At the same time, members of the Parliament have covered key teams that will not only influence the budget but also on the financial matters of this year and the counts of opinion that will certainly always exist when unexpected teams need to be taken into account. The budget must always be looked at under the merits of it, i.e. that there is unexpected assistance, or as it is said in the government budget, that in terms of financial contributions, financial contributions will be sought for the resources that could not be provided, that such measures certainly bring about inevitable causes, unseen events, as are truly examples - the impact of agreements in this regard - but also that such measures do not cover new plans or new projects, or that they may be added to the business halls of the individual organisations. It is important that such matters be brought into the budget for the next 2016 year. I'm sure there's a few things that could have been estimated and provided in this bill, including tax paid teams that have been shown during the discussion. I'm not going to do this talk here. I'm going to do a little detail on a team. I'm counting on that in the wake of publicity, sir. The budget for the 2nd Environment. the more and better explanations can be made and the reasons given for the variation to the plan. It is very important that we make it clear. These have been listed as factors such as the income capital of the National Bank, which explains half of the revenues presented on the bill, and it has also been said of the travel fund. There are two evils that are more careful on the income side and, realistically, on the pay side. The more realistic the plan is, the better it is, the more discipline and realistic it becomes. That there is a prerequisite where there is a basis for a revised income management programme and for proposals to change the legal rights of various financiers, which is in full agreement with what is mentioned in the bill. This must take into account the expected reevaluation of national forecasts in November that it may need to make appropriate adjustments to the income side of the bill. As we study the bill here, it is based on the values of the Hague Lab that was performed last June. At the same time, it is important to keep in mind when checking the criteria of the bill and the changes made on the income and paying side that the financial impact on the state's budget on emissions is not taken into account. Without the fact that I'm going to do anything about it here and now, I'm going to expect, considering what is already happening and where is about to happen, that there will be considerable financial impact on the state's holding of these arrangements and will be shown, if everything goes to order, for 2016. The work is not begun in these words, so I will not, as I say, to multiply it. It is clear that the effect, although it is unlikely that such a thing will occur to some extent this year, is significant. It also says that increases in the pay costs of the citizens funded from state funds have to be re-evaluated in terms of the Fih and BHM cases since August, as well as in the collective agreements that we can say have fallen into the late part of this year. The nature of a case should be taken into account by those who will then come to terms with expenses from what is presented in this bill. I'm just gonna look at the numbers that appear on the side of income and the total context of sizes and stick to the first thing that puts into the eyes when you cover the index and the main sizes. It's very positive to see in the A-part income sheet that income increases by 26.4 billion from what has been added to current budgets. The highest rate of taxes on income and profit is an increase of 15.8 billion from the current budget. That figure is positive to the extent that it reverses the favorable economic developments that are more successful in the commercial world, which is shown by both legal and individual paying more than expected. Then I'm not just talking about the profits that made a lot more of the banks, mostly the Bank of the Lands. There is certainly evidence here that the government's tax policy is entering a healthy business life and a high level of employment. It must be the goal of every government to maintain full - time employment, that everyone has the potential for employment and can provide for himself and his family. Among other things, you can read from these numbers, which are positive when considering economic and tax goals. This economic development explains much of these numbers, but it is primarily of the overall size that increases the interest paid by banks, mainly by the Bank of America. There has been, however, some discussion of community banks. I'm not going to discuss it any more in this speech. However, I find that discussion often without a full definition. Yet, earlier today, there was an excellent talk that came close to the definition of social responsibility in such a business. In view of this, I can mention that, of course, the savings were a community bank in view of a special fund that had the objective of working with the community and for social projects. To date, I have mainly discussed the income side and the job situation, which obviously is more successful in increasing income, but it is interesting to see that this trend does not appear in the merit tax. Of course, there is concern and, of course, reason to examine further. This point is discussed in more detail on page 18. 51 dealing with taxes on goods and services. In part, it shows that the income of a valuable tax is down by 2.4 billion and is obviously not making any progress in increasing activity while other taxes are in line with what was supposed to be expected. This has been reported, and most of all, it is a trend known to many countries and countries. Interestingly, this variation with the worthy tax has no explanation for economic and other economic abnormalities and is therefore an example for reimbursement of the remuneration tax. They are fully in harmony with the schedule, so the explanation is not found there. The explanation given, as well as the experience of other countries and research, is that the energy tax has a high level of sensitivity to the economy, as well as as as as asymmetrical, greater fluctuations than fluctuations, resulting in rapid declines of income and greater fluctuations, that the behavioral pattern is inflexible from the contracture and contracture. Of course, we can ask ourselves: " What really causes? Of course, everyone should obey the law and return taxes. I believe that there is a reason for the committee to call on whether there will be no further explanation for this trend. Based on the current budget, there are proposals for changes to be made from what was expected in order to meet the changing criteria and unforeseen expenses. The bill has an increase in budgets of 9.4 billion net, corresponding to a 1.4% increase from the total budget of the current budget. The dissociation of these expenditures for increases and reductions is provided in the table on page 5. 55 and more weight gains, especially medical costs, for reassessments of health insurance. There is an increase of 2.1 billion. It spreads into several teams. However, I would like to call attention to a table on page 5. 46 showing remarkable results indeed since 2009, since there are variations - which are important when discussing funds and reports, that discipline in government matters is important and accurate and practical in planning. It is interesting to see this picture because, in fact, there has been an excellent result here since 2009, in most cases it is difficult to deal with the variations we see are due to changes in prices and possible pensional commitments. Until 2009, the 2008 reference year is often discussed, the variation is more pronounced in a high - flung, more positive manner. This is in a practical way interesting and worthy of further discussion. Actually, it's not out of a high saddle falling over that period, and I don't think we want to go back. This has been the subject of a bill for government financial legislation. I agree that many things on that bill are for improvement, and I agree that much of that bill could help the future with discipline and a more realistic plan. There's been some changes in the literature here. I will make use of the short time I have left from my talk to introduce these sources. First, there is what is indicated by a change of 6. a budget where there is an additional authority on the government's pay for stocks in the Asian Investigation Bank. I'll admit, more dignified President, that I don't know the entire operation of this bank. This is a large sum of money, and explain on page 11. Sixty-three on the bill, but I miss more logic. So I simply state a request for further support for this warrant on the subject. It's a legal committee. What I'm positive about, though, is if this makes it possible to assist a company in increasing foreign projects, where we can use our knowledge, both for business and for employment. Of course, it is very important to consider. Then I can't figure out how important it is that this thing is sellable or how sellable it is. [[The president calls.]] I'm excited to have another argument for the 2nd. this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u89	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I think I just noticed. A senator said that it was shown in those testimonials in the budget bill that the government's tax policy was successful. Wait a minute. A senator to correct me if I did not notice correctly. In time, the talk took place. A senator presented to him what seems to be the problem of collecting a valuable tax, since he did not collect as well as expected. The changes to the highest. The government did in taxes during 2015 mainly on the merit tax system and on taking down the product charges. In 2014, the highest concentration was increased. On the other hand, a government has a substantial budget for those in need of tools and health care. So I ask. A member of Parliament: What exactly changed the tax environment during 2015, allowing us to conclude that it is the highest tax policy. Thanks to the government, we're doing well. Is that not just a sign of contrast, considering how the value tax was collected where the lower level was raised to 11% in 2015, which dropped to 24%? Apparently, something went wrong with the ratings of the remuneration system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u90	Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for a question that turns on the merit of the tax system and the context of what I once claimed, that the government's tax policy was due. When I talk about it, I'm talking about the main objective that all the government really has, the goal of full - time employment. The labour demand is a secondary demand, i.e. it is dependent on demand for goods and services in general. Here, we certainly have come to the point where we are making full use of the workforce. Unemployed employment accounts for about 3% of what the economists would think is natural unemployment. So, at the same time, it is interesting to look at the lack of income tax worth. The bill shows that it seems to be a practical reaction. I took this up in my speech because it seems that during a recession and in a recession, the merit tax returns less than if it is unchanging, there is a pattern of behavior on tax returns if we can call it that way. Although this is true among the nations, it is spoken of in the bill, I believe fully research why it does not depend on the changes we have made on the system, and I believe that it should have been an improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u91	Madam President. I agree with that. Senator, that's certainly an investigation. It may be difficult to draw conclusions about what happens after a recession in a foreign country if the countries have not all changed the valuable tax system in the meantime. This may be a special situation. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is possible to be involved in a workforce problem. As economists have noted, we have a problem with production, which is not enough in this country to support the negotiations that have been negotiated. The new jobs that are coming into existence in this country are the majority of people in travel services and remunerations of jobs and funding in this article. The production of new jobs does not help with the production problem that the nation faces. I'm asking why. A senator may be lacking in employment policies at the highest level. Governments. Is it not time to examine the employment policy specifically and discuss it here at the council when such changes occur in this environment and one industry grows at such a rapid pace as the case with tourism? Of course, for the economy, unemployment stations, and the currency situation, do we not have to try to look ahead and make sure that it doesn't grow over our heads? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný HarddoerHarðardóttir later answer. It's about employment, tourism, efficiency of the cost tax system and the concept of production. I agree with what. A senator with the main entry of the question, the point of which leads to travel. That is correct, it has long been known that the production of tourism is low. What, though, is the production of tourism? It can be pretty tricky to calculate the production of tourism. It focuses on the usefulness because, as the word suggests, we are primarily talking about service. It will often be a highly extended measure, what we produce many units on the products we use in tourism. Travel services are built up by a wide range of occupations. That is why there are a large number of products. The main one is performance. All the management of the main tourism companies we are considering, the more efficient it is, whether it is in the form of aviators or in beds, the more effective measures are being made. However, they have always been accompanied by travel services, even if it is a workforce and in part a positive one, that wages are low. It's known worldwide. Therefore, we need to consider all these factors. The positive thing about tourism in the trouble we were working out is that it's a workforce, and it's helped us in two ways, i.e. To earn money and create a full-time job here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u93	Madam President. In this area, members of the council have traveled many fields and have killed on many things, and observing the discussion has been very helpful and effective. I want to make a subject and put it out of the top words. The secretary of finance from when he recommended funding, which included the Minister, with the permission of a president: There I refer to winter services, such as those in the founded system, that the level of service that has been adjusted cannot be excluded from the reality of human funds. This is the cold reality of so many institutions in the national system and must be relevant in the road. - There's a financing minister in the winter service and on the Roadmaker. Arrangements have come to mention that this has been too long so that the winter service has not been planned, that it is a balance fund, or that it is necessary to take on other legal requirements that this very important group is in the right direction. I think for that reason there is reason to kill on some of the material issues involved. What is this winter service about? Has its nature changed? Is it true that we and the government agencies are not entirely involved in the importance of that service? You see, many things have changed, and they call for increased traffic during wintertime. One is a fish transport. The spread of fresh fish has increased dramatically, and there are hours and days that are critical of everything by dispensing and making it possible for humans to reach their destination. A number of economics and recessions have led to our reaching out for work, education, health care, and all sorts of things that we did not do a few years ago. Once you've taken the day off to work, start a meeting with some server, doctor, dentist, or other dentist, it has to stand, and the roads aren't closed. High school with high school students. For ten years students spend an amazing amount of the day in a car. The roads are safe and pay traffic so that they can take place, morning and evening, and at and out of school. It is said that this has become the largest currency. It's the biggest way to work. This is what's supposed to save the country. This is our new regional policy. It's travel service. How can she manage if the roads are not good? You have to watch this. When all roads were hollow and subterranean, they needed a different kind of service, but we need the roads that are bound to break. No one went that rough, hollow road but out of necessity. And it shall come to pass, when the roads are made more straight, as they have bound up, that the traffic is broken. Hence, the need for winter service increases when roads are built apart, and that is a reality that needs to be watched. Moreover, its speed increases, making it more intense than the old roads. Now that we've extended the road system, we have to perform the new roads without dying of the old roads. An example is the Road of Turbulence, which is at least 40 miles [40 km]. In addition, 50 miles [80 km] drive back and forth, since the water cycle was not closed, although this parallel road was opened. This will increase the need for winter service. A sailing tunnel. We didn't close the road on the other side to Rock Ground. Thus, the need for winter service increases. The staff of the Road Building and those who work in the winter service, the contractors at the Road Building, are under tremendous pressure from the public and businesses to keep the roads open. As soon as one person goes off or something goes wrong, I'm not talking about being completely unable to do it, but a shark that prevents one from driving at what they call normal speed or between places, the phone starts and it's a huge pressure, and often a feeling of intolerance and rudeness, which these people are exposed to in the demands of companies and public that roads are opened or made expedient. These people need support and money to do their job. Modern society requires that the roads be open, and we should not be building and improving transport if the concept is not open and human payable when necessary. It has been discussed with members of community banks and Asian banks and has been called savings, and people wondered if the savings had a social role. If they had that question, did they go out of their way? Is there anything to learn from if a person is going to take up a discussion about a community bank, establish a community bank, allowing community banks to drive him on the grounds here damp, as a dog. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson called in the real economy? Were our savings there? Did they leave because of that? Did they begin to participate in the so - called financial situation, as it was called earlier? When they learned that in their fields there was money without a shepherd, did they get out of line? I gave this up because people have pondered the community bank talk. If they were social banks in some form that I don't want to say, they need to learn from whether and where and how they went out of that process and begin to participate in activities that are more important in investments and ventures, which is the supposed idea that they are not. During the past eight weeks that I have participated in the council and in the work of committees, you have either visited or been visited by committees from different parts of the state where money really is missing. You meet or are visited by government employees and all kinds of work where there is a bad situation because people feel that they cannot fulfill legal requirements as to how to operate these activities. I'm going to give three examples because I've studied them and we've had effective visits from sides in it, and you've been looking into them better. This is definitely true in more cases. Prisons. Men who have served there for decades say that conditions have never been the same as they do today. Prisons cannot maintain minimal confidence and meet their legal obligations. I would just like to see more money there in the fundraiser. Medical insurance for auxiliary equipment. For example, parents who are long - suffering from disabled children may wait for weeks and months for relief devices that remain undisputed and legally clear. The staff in that area is distressed by their failure to care for the rights of these individuals. There's got to be a little bit more. And the police. The police haven't gotten the funds they need to get to their former position yet. Similarly, the police have not received recognition of all the new activities that have been added to her field and are the result of changes to society, international treaties, and unforeseen social development. I'd like to mention these three cases, so when the management are happy to have dropped their taxes, because that's what they wanted to do, cancel customs, pay taxes, I don't think they'll accept the responsibility of society's business. Icelandic society is both good and expensive. It's just that. They must then earn money, and they must show the responsibility to run the lawsuits and activities that they have established by law and institutions. I'm not going to have any more of those words for you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I thought why. A senator carefully reviews the importance of snow mist and mentioned some factors that need to be taken into consideration but that have not been done before, e.g. Fish transport, as well as tourism. This means that if we are going to carry out a travel service, and that is our goal, and it must be that, the number of travel services in many parts of the country must be distributed. That is why they are opening up more roads into the country, such as the Bulgarians and Akureyris, with a straight flight there. I hope that's a good test. Even if we do not, we still need to carry out travel services to make it possible to make it always possible to get there all year long. As we have been criticizing this, we have noted that this is the basis and the plan needs to be difficult. Then, of course, that's how it is, like what happened. A senator living north of the country knows better than many in this country, that there are very different degrees of snow everywhere each year. However, this is not so that plans cannot be made for an extended period of time and that they are balanced. Investments should be unnecessary only when something special happens like a natural disaster or something like that. Then mentioned why. A senator's example of the savings fund in connection with the bank. It is good, however, to remember, when we're about to be ashamed of the managers of the savings, that when the bank crash was the best in financial operations, people did not end up in the traditional savings business. It's as weird as it was now. These were too small for profit. That is why they may have gone into other activities that were risky, and eventually it went bad. At the end I thought why. It is important to set priorities in the financial matters for the service we agree to perform.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u95	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He drew out and further sharpened all the things I wanted to emphasize in my language. If the road has an overall budget and cannot master its plans, a part of the explanation may be that the road is under enormous pressure to do all kinds of things. There's excessive pressure on the road model all over the place. It doesn't matter what kind of enterprise it starts, then the locals and contractors are here, who want to do it like that and gay and go further and do more. When two, three good years come in a row, they may be tempted to take the swing fund out of the winter service and take it to such projects, absolutely necessary. They're always ashamed that they don't tie up in summer, that they don't get through the dirt road, but they try to do good. Two, three good years, and they are tempted to take this money and then two, three difficult winters. We must, in some way, help them and take more political responsibility and say all over the country and everywhere that we are not going to do more in transportation than we are doing, and somehow take back them, and keep this treasure if we are not going to put more money on the case. I'm curious to hear what you're talking about. A senator had arranged to shift the savings and their position in a standard operation before a crash and may have been tempted into a so - called financial biscuit to try to correct the routine. It's fascinating to hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u96	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator continues to agree on at least these factors. There is no doubt much pressure on the road, and there is a great demand. But that is true in a number of areas, and it challenges us and the individuals taking these matters to set some rules that will be successful. In some cases, you may have to say no. Or the other thing, we put more money into the lawsuit party. But I'm sure that'll never be enough. I don't think we'll ever get to that place where it's gonna be enough. No more than in health care. There'll never be enough there. Never in law enforcement, and not in education, either. That is true of most people. We're trying to get to a better place, and then we're comparing ourselves to the countries where it works best. The plan's better there. This is two types of follow-up and then the plan. Although we are making progress in the right direction, obviously we are not in the right place, since we have old ghosts, like those we were referring to in the budget. Of course, a person has to face reality and reason. A senator mentioned some examples of transport improvements, which are not just transportation improvements. It must also call for snowstorm at such times. If you open a new route to Siglusund, for example, that means you have to have more snow puffs than you used to have. Fish transport is another fine example. I think the big thing must be, and we have to take into account in our plans, that if we're going to build a tourist service across the country, which I think is a top priority, we'll have to take it into account. Also, we need to ask how we are going to get the money to finance it all. I can't go over it in the last six seconds I have here, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u97	Thank you. A senator once again for the counter-reguage. I've already said that for my part, I'm willing to go to more taxes and to go through more taxes more slowly, especially in the situation we've been in after a crash. They shouldn't have gone so steep in reducing the income of the state. Because of what? A senator is very reasonable and perfunctory, so I'm going to be, too, and I'm going to beat off what I've been saying. But because he's the vice president of the budget board, and why. The chairman of a legal committee is also there, looking at the prisons and aid tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u98	Madam President. This has been an excellent discussion and a number of interesting events, related to the government's finances and its policy, even though not all may be the subject of this budget bill. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson gave an interesting talk. I'm sorry, he's not in the gym, but maybe he's not far away. Among other things, he pointed out that money from financial institutions has been greatly underestimated in the last two budgets and aims to become that third year in line with the budget bill, e.g. if you look at the survival of the Land Bank. It is worth considering that, like the Lands Bank, they do not try to bring the money of the year closer to what is really available in the well-being of an enterprise owned by the State. Another is interesting about the high economic interest that has been significant, more than 20 billion in a row from the Lands Bank and some from the Federal Bank and elsewhere, and it is finally proved by now in 2015 that the investment programme of the previous government proved to be a trust. Those in charge who talked it down and cut it down in late 2013 and the authors of the budget that year should now think. There has been no basis for the claim that income would not work in harmony with what an investment plan expected. Ergo: It would have been possible to keep a full drop in the investments set up in 2012 and 2013. Sadly, the present government cut down. This is a fact, although the government has severely reduced the government's income from hunting costs. This has been shown to be a significant drop in data from Fish Room today or yesterday, with a fine summary of the final fishing fees of 2012/2013 when they were 12.8 billion, 2013/2014 when income dropped to 9.2 billion and last fish fishing year, 2014/2015, which ended September 1, the last year, earns to 7.7 billion. This is 8.7 billion that are going out there compared to the current fishing rate of 2012/2013. Has the survival of the fishing road got worse? Is there reason to believe that such a reduction in fishing costs was necessary to save, for example, larger fish companies? No, not really. The great well - being has continued in this article by making big investments, building ups, making big increases in personal money, and making huge profits for corporate owners. Although the current government had renounced these incomes, the investment plan would still have been financed because of financial contributions obtained from financial institutions. So it was that money and/or sale of a part owned by the State in financial institutions would be at the expense of investment schemes and, on the other hand, increase in revenues from hunting costs through special fishing costs. For example, I am sorry that during a three - year period, there have been a much smaller improvement in road projects that would have followed the uninvolved investment plan of the former government. Today, they will start to argue against adding to the danger of expansion in the economy. We know this vicious circle. Is it ever possible to promote investments in the interiors of society, in telecommunications, in roads, airports, ports, education systems, health systems, etc.? The reality is that the only significant projects currently being carried out that are normally funded by a road program are the major projects set out on the basis of an investment plan of the previous government, such as the Norwegian tunnel, building on ports, and several roads. Second, the sale of the Land Bank, which is what it is. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson also came on, and I kind of asked for the word to come up and join him when he warned of something disturbing about it. It is of interest, of course, that despite the failure of the Lands Bank sales plans this year, and estimated income of 35.5 billion for sales of 15% shares in the National Bank, the budget bill remains to be expected to sell 30% at the bank and then at once in 2016. As we move ahead, the government is likely to get Iceland banking into its own hands. Is that a good idea? In the market, people are competing for groups to buy some of Arion's banks, hoping to get him for little. Is it wise, then, that the State maintains stress plans for selling the Lands Bank? In addition, the interesting debate has developed, and it seems that there is some transverse support for the state to have such a bank and to emphasize its activities, whether we call it a bank, a national bank, or something else. I think that's all there is to it, except to do a proper dating thing about it here at the council, though. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson thinks it's something he calls in foreign, but I would just say in English, "Repeated material." It may well be repeated on the subject of discussing whether the State can pass through its ownership of important services, which I view as supposed to be banks, given special emphasis in behalf of the whole community. So what? Of course you can. The question is not necessarily that these institutions are worse or different than others, and this leads to something competitive. Suppose, for example, that in a national bank, which has now swallowed most of the rest of the savings and is, as a result, the only financial agency in large areas of the country, will be assigned social, socially based duties so as to render adequate service in places that are not at all possible for banking services. [[Up front.]] Why would a bank at 100% own the state or the nearest thing close to the ATM in Piglet and judge men there to have no banking services, not even ATMs? For example, suppose government policy would say: No, thank you, you are in the process of being the only financial agency in large territories, and we expect you to be the owners of an adequate service. This may require something, but through it is social service, community political service, and the equally expressive question of the people of the land. Besides, as already noted, such phenomena are well - known, that people put them in line with the business of such companies or institutions that play a social role in seeing until the general need for the real economy, not mixing in more risky areas of management, such as investment banking, and identifying themselves in the foundation as services, as the savings did. How sad it was, but their business plans were not to be blamed. The reality is that savings were fired in this country for decades. They performed a fine service, close - ups, supported the job, and the communities in their areas, and gave annual considerable demand for strength to all kinds of cultural and social activities in the areas. In the history of the savings funds, although powerful and fragile, and badly ended up, there are also decades of successful arrangements in which the aim was not to be made to any owner but to socializing and a lack of activity was allowed to flow to the community. I don't really want to agree with what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonson, so I will continue to base my speech on a response to his speech, that it would be a clear mistake if Iceland became the founder of the Asian Investigation Bank. I would have just asked: Why wouldn't Iceland follow the example of most other European countries and be involved with a rising Asian bank taking a very important regional role and will no doubt benefit from developing countries in that area? America's complexities and efforts to corrupt this, there's no reason for me not to be there. Of course, everyone who has studied some of the international politics involved is aware of what causes America's dissatisfaction. They are inconceived to accept the rising role of Asia in the world's economic affairs and to weep over gradually losing the sovereignty of the international institutions, including the World Bank and the World Bank Pension Fund. They can see it moving now, see the range of weight in the economy moving. Isn't Iceland just the same as being involved in developing countries like other countries? I think so. Of course, in other matters, when it comes to the bill, it is possible to do as the executives have done, to rejoice that the rest will be more on the budget of this year than in last year. It's always good, but let's look into how he came into existence. I'm afraid he's in a state of disproportionateity because of the lack of plans for interest from the Bank of Lands, i.e. 17.1 billion of the recovery. If that lasts 15 billion more income to profit from the Lands Bank, that remains 2.1 billion. That, then, is what the basic products of the government are getting better. It is an interesting phrase that may have overlooked someone on the page. In 44 C.E., if we overlook these added interest payments, we will increase the original equation by over 3 billion from the budget. I've seen something of the original equation these past few years. It wasn't popular here during my last term when I, as minister of finance, sometimes talked about the primacy. They even assumed that I had invented this concept to mislead them. But the reality is that the original equation is the most practical measure of the underlying government. It is either using the prime equation or setting aside irregular groups, and then we will see how the recovery is on the ground. Of course, it is not good to see that the prime equation has not improved as if it had to. The reality is that the government has released at the rate of taxes at a rate of 3,35,440 billion. The cost has increased somewhat, so the underlying contribution of the state is not better than this, and it may improve by about 2 billion from the budget. Then you may ask, as was a fine point in the previous talk: " If we weren't the economy that will bring in some of the revenues into a large part of the general income market, where would we be? It is on which the present government flows with the positive product of a government fund, because it has released a huge amount of money in return and nothing else. In other words, Madam President, if we were to set the pace-corrected standard for this, the underlying members of the state are getting worse. Of course, that is what needs to be done. You need to look through the paces as well as to visualize how the underlying processes develop. He is getting sick because people have released much more money than they have reduced their expenses. It's a simple example. People don't live forever on panels. It can dry up like dew before the sun, leaving the state's weaker income base based on the sound of income. This is happening. It's better for the current government not to beat backtrace in the economics before elections so that they can boast about world record and all of that. Then came the mantra that the benefits of the government's tax policy were beginning to turn in. We heard her from what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, all due to the fact that the government had reduced taxes, and his income was likely increased because of that. Hear the endem! Of course, what's happening here is good as far as it goes, that continuing recovery in the economy from the late 2010 is continuing to lighten our level. That's good, and we're happy every day about it as long as it's going well. But let us look at the underlying facts, not succumb to the temptation to discuss this in political phrases, as if they were now falling from the trees because of the intellectual tax policy of the government. She's not smart. She's not very responsible. We've seen this before. We have seen humans previously claim that there is a way to cure everything with taxes. What happened when the economy went into hard space and relapsed? [[The president calls.]] Then it wasn't the situation. That's when it wasn't a good thing. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, demands must be made to look through the paces only for a longer period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u99	A respectable president. It would be enough to take into account if you were going to make comments with everything that happened to you. Senator. I'm just gonna hang out with a few things. First, by the Asia Fund that I heard at the time. A senator is very interested. Thus, it is not just Asia but the leading countries of the Chinese and Russian funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u100	Our guys.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u101	- Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Osse calls our men, they're your men.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u102	You're gonna have a... but I'm not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u103	I think it's interesting. A senator should not mention that in his speech, but let it be in between. What caught my attention was at the moment. A senator, who was a little light in the way of the government, spoke of the finance of infrastructure and investments, including the possibility of having been financed. ... witha saleofthe administrationofthefinancial administration. Hv. A senator then spoke against selling financial items. I'm not right when it happened. A member of the government was put into the budget to sell the shares of the State in financial institutions? Just so we're in the same place as that. Then he spoke up. A senator very much about the savings fund and what they did. Hv. A senator knows that prior to the collapse of the bank was the survival of the savings funds, i.e. Standard business, not good, they didn't make ends meet. Because of what? A senator spoke very closely as if it had gone very well then, he could take a little further into it, because what kept up the savings was something that went badly, and it was the investment business. [[The president calls.]] I can't quite figure out what it's like. A senator then plans to see those things work out now. It would be fine if he informed us about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u104	Madam President. This may also make sense to us that I was watching over the history of the savings decades back in time. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór, Þórðarson told him that the survival of most of them was not a groundbreaking business for the past few years. They had difficulty competing with the large swollen banks, which, in fact, could leave the rest of their domestic activities to rest. And, unfortunately, they built too much on the rise of letters and possessions related to the savings, and it went bad, that's right. But the country was retrospected for decades with adequate living, fine service, and important institutions in its community and communities. I know that very well of my own experience, and I can cross it at times. A senator, perhaps. What I said about the investment plan of the first government was that it is now available and that it is fact in the premieres and reports of the Constitution itself that everything they said about the unsaturable investment plan of the previous government. She has proved to be a full - grown man, more than the three years she was set up at first. It was said to be money from financial institutions and/or possible sales profits from any component. At that time, most people looked to the situation where the government's property at Arazon Bank or Iceland Bank would automatically be sold because the majority of the banks would sell them and the government would get that share. True, it was also taken into the law to sell up to 30% in the Lands Bank, but the previous government had not decided to use that authority. It was, in fact, so that it is enlightened, not necessarily undisputed in our order whether above heads should interfere with the property of the Bank of Lands. Regarding Asia's investment banks, I'm not saying that I'm some special interested person that we're in it, but I'm not convinced that we shouldn't be. [[The president calls.]] I just said here that American resistance to that bank is no reason for me not to be in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for clear answers. He confirmed that there was a legal warrant for selling 30% of the Lands Bank as well as selling it at Arion Bank and Bank of Iceland. Thank you. This is very clear. It was in the budget of the last government, and I remembered it, so I felt something special. A senator would speak to me as if it were absolutely irresponsible to continue, for this was indeed done in the time of his government. However, I don't know that there's any dispute that when it comes to selling these things, it's important to schedule them well and not go in fast. I hope there's still some agreement on that. I feel a little bit, though. A senator did not do so in this counterargument, he did not speak harshly against the policy he actually marketed when it came to selling these things. With the savings fund and decades of looking back in time, it's not very good to do that. I was a customer of the savings funds, and I started my first banking business there, and I was there a long time. I don't think we can, even if we fall into the fun of Notstalia, go back to that time. I remember the Successful Saving of Akureyri when there was one cashier, and a man was waiting in a simple row to take out his money. Those days are over. The problem with the savings was that when it came to larger projects, it was difficult to care for them. I think it's very important that we lay down the risk of the banking business and that it's a complete goal, but we have to watch things real. Sadly, it is not enough to look back some decades to determine how the banking system is today. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't even an Internet at the time when the savings may have had quite some good fruit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u106	Madam President. Of course, I do not have to be thanked for accepting the facts, including the fact that there were laws given here on how, in case of coming, the sale of government property in financial institutions, whether in savings, the minority of Arion Bank or Bank of Iceland, or any of the holdings of the Lands Bank. The first government, however, never entered the foundation of its budget-employed bills, and most of the stock markets were looked to for interest, for it had the greatest success in the coming years when the investment plan was established. Since then, the discussion has developed. Now, the interesting discussion that I had me involved only in some sort of community bank, which, of course, we welcome a group of fellow workers. Government senator, advance team, at least Part of him, should be interested in discussing and developing those ideas. We're more than ready to do that. Hv. A senator must expand the horizon. It is not wise to say that there is no point in looking back to the successful history of the savings. Who says that such institutions cannot again have a foundation and right to exist, which define themselves properly and are not trying to be anything but what they were? The reserves that survived the collapse were those who were just reserves and did not get confused. A treasure of savings, like the Testimony Fund, the Safari Fund of the Stranders, of Hólmavík, and of the Cape. Sadly, others were eager to follow the others into nonsense and crash. In the countries around us, there are powerful savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u107	There are giants...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u108	Norway, powerful savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u109	Germany...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u110	In Germany, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u111	It's a giant...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u112	We can also take the green banks, public banks that are based on other foundations, and we can do well. [[Much larger...]] Small loan banks, particularly driven to assist the monotonous and less business partners and to foster development, pioneers and innovation. [[The president calls.]] All the fleas exist in the countries around us. Why don't we leave it to Iceland to wonder that we could have something other than new versions of the old banks that went upside down? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u113	V.E.G. President. I've watched this discussion quite a bit today, partly from a distance. I'm not quite from the fact that there's been a chapter divorce in the history of the council and then why. paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson has struck a certain record, a record of insolence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u114	Tell him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u115	What's the record? Yes, it was in this discussion about a community bank. Hv. A senator wanted to know two things, either way. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson would not have thought that a community bank won't pass competitive laws - in other words, that a bank serving its clients rather than the owners who would take advantage of his money would not run out of international competitive laws. The other factor, perhaps the sort of record as well. A senator struck, was asking about a possible community bank and the senator's failure to consider whether the steps were not afraid, and was evidently thinking of the Bank of Lands and the Bank of Farms, which were owned and in the custody of the State at its time, but then were part-friended and privateised, i.e. Selling, and the fun began. They went to the ground and took the Icelandic race with them in the fall. Hv. A senator does not ask that question. He asks whether the steps of earlier times, soon since the 1980's and '90's, are they a threat to society? But the reality is that... A senator. [[Up front.]] The reality is that these banks never had any government support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u116	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u117	For a time, the land bank did so, and every cent was paid back. These banks were not a burden on an Icelandic population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u118	We're discussing budget 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u119	- We're talking extra money, yeah, we're definitely doing it. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir encourages us to stick to the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u120	Don't stop...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u121	If so, I would point them on page 18. Forty-five that discuss the Bank of Lands and the government's proposal that 30% of the U.S. Bank will be sold next year. It had stood to sell 15% this year and 15% in the coming year, but it says that it is the government's intention to sell 30% now. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Against this has been convincing economic evidence. [[Up front.]] At the same time, other banks are being sold. It is now at Copenhagen's disposal to sell Arion's bank and it is headed for the full possession of Iceland Bank and it is also likely to be sold before the Bank of Lands, i.e. That 30% in there. [[Up front.]] There will be a huge amount of money and many items on the market, and therefore it is not wise to take action on this trade by economic reasoning. Otherwise, I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir The Mayor's son, Sigurjónsson, to encourage the government and the administrative part to abandon these plans, is that we are more concerned with making the Bank of America's own, and that we agree to a bill available to separate business banks and investment funds. That bill has been introduced at the council. Then we try to make the Lands Bank a community bank. What does that mean? That means the bank will be fired in behalf of its customers rather than his owners. What's the difference? The same differences were made in the case of former directors of mail and telephones as did those who had the custody after they became part - time and then placed in the market. Both of them were asked that once each of their goals was, what they saw as their prime objective. The first said: It is to render good, cheap, and efficient service to the people. We did it. The cell phone was running a telephone service that was the cheapest building in the entire world. At the same time, this institution produced a total of 253 billion dollars each year. - Here we go. Sea to the sky. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] No wonder! - It's just reality, and these are numbers from the early '90s. [[The point is, Shouldn't we stay in this century?]] Then came the second president, who was asked the same question: What do you see as your main objective in your work? He answered: "It is to create interest for the owners of Shiman and take care of the interests and interests of the owners. It is a different approach that is important, and people are looking to many different parts of the world. In the United States, many rural communities have attacked or considered setting up a community bank in the community. They're getting tired of gaming investors and fluctuations in the interest. [[Up front.]] That's where the idea is to go. She's also clearing up the country. I'm glad that the head of the Allied Economic and Business Committee has taken the lead in the discussion we've agreed to, for example, in this matter many of the individuals and perhaps most of the government opposition. When we look at these matters collectively, I feel that no matter how close we are to the matter, it is important to keep the Lands Bank on community property. First of all, I refer to this economic argument, and indiscriminately attack this sale in the coming year. In the light of circumstances, I think it's a misbehavior. On the one hand, I ask if people want to benefit from this institution. During the first nine months of the year, the profit was 24.4 billion of the Bank of Lands, and it could not be amazingly 30 billion in its entire year. However, I agree with those who speak for community banks that the benefits of running such a bank should not be in this profit. It is to lie in cheap, efficient service. That's where the profits are. It has the social benefits of running community banks. In the years before collapse, everyone looked up and tried to find ways to increase profits, raise interest, etc. Now we're supposed to think differently, in a more original way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u122	...the bank manager.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u123	- That's right. I'm very opposed to what's going on at the Secret Bank on Control and I think it's a very bad option there, one more trip. Just one more thing. paritaprevir The Gullful Þórðarson referred to was an apartment loan fund. It was the community bank that he met primarily. I can't say that he was the kind of monster a lot of people want to paint him in this councilroom and that he's probably done. He became one of the victims of the crash too. I do not agree with those who believe that it was a myth at the time to take a loan to 90%. In fact, I find it quite amusing to talk that even those who admire what they call Europe's low - interest interest interest interest rates, wanting everything to cost the growth as the lowest possible, would be embarrassed by those who wanted to make the apartment loans invite us to a low level of growth. [[Up front.]] It was then the biggest and worst crime to bring about Europe's growth, or low interest. Isn't that what we're always going to do? Why, then, did people begin to wish for it when a camp loan fund did so, and then they had a huge war with the banking system that wanted to put him on the side of a cat's nose? I know this very well as the director of the country's largest pension fund when we got close-ups from the banks to put together an apartment loan fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u125	It's just reality. Next, the camp loan fund is suddenly the scapegoat. Of course, he suffered setbacks, such as the entire financial system, the pensions, the sweat funds, the state funds, the whole system that the banks here put on. Of course it did. Then I feel that one thing is contradictory, and I want an explanation for it. It would be interesting if it were. paritaprevir The God - pleased Þórðarson, who has been very involved in this discussion and is well - versed, that is, good, could give at least his explanation for it. It would be fascinating to hear his attitude. It's that Asian bank. Those who are not allowed to see the government's ownership share in banks in Iceland want to place 2.3 billion in the Asian infrastructure. True, this should come, not in a single dose, but in 100 million. K. ritonavir and then inaccessible funds. The government is to participate because it has so much structure. Isn't there some contradiction around here? [[Up front.]] I'm just asking. These people don't want any access to a national financial system that desperately needs our small economic systems, that there's a clinching in the financial world that would then be through banks, banks of society, the Bank of Lands, but on the other hand, they want us to take on billions of investments in wood banks of Asia. Does it seem that these investments in the states will pay the particular street of the countries involved, that the biness life follows that law, according to that process? I wouldn't have thought so. This is something I'll admit I don't know about things, I don't do it at all, but I think it's contradictory to want to disseminate the state from all financial activity in Iceland -- why. paritaprevir Gulsome Þórðarson doesn't want to stop selling the Lands Bank, he also wants an apartment loan out of the map unless he becomes just a narrow support fund to the poorest Americans, that's how I understand it - but wanting to make an investment in Asia. That's something I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u126	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The jealous son of Jónasson went great, as at other times before, and said that I had put the record in shamelessness. Since we're in that place, there's no reason. paritaprevir I assume that Jónasson's jealous attitude led him to a failure because he simply did not listen to my speech. He suggests that I was talking about the Bank of Lands and the Bank of the 1980s; not one word, I didn't say one word about it. Hv. A senator comes up here crazy and shames me for a speech I did not hold. What the fuck is this, Mr. Honorable President? When we are dealing with a community bank, is it unnatural to ask how people will make it meet competitive conditions? Is that unnatural? Is it unnatural to view an apartment loan fund that was supposed to be a community bank of that time? Me and what. A senator took this discussion back in his day on an apartment loan fund. The problem with an apartment loan fund, which went upside down like the savings, and like the personal banks and other things, was that we sat down with all our losses. Why? Because they were going to achieve the objective of a community bank. He was all over the place. paritaprevir What a goal it was that Ögmundur the son of Jónasson wanted him to keep his market share! That meant, because it came down to the top, the taxpayers lost more than they needed. I'm gonna ask you what. A member of Congress: Did he really mean that he wanted the State to own the Lands phone? That's what I'm talking about. A member of the U.S. government who still owns the Lands phone, does he really claim that we would be in a better position?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u127	V.E.G. President. It is a kind and obligated question to answer. Yeah, I think we'd be better off if we still had our Land Phone and if things had never been broken by the Lands phone. I remember it in the first or second year after the cell phone was sold - I think he lost half a billion in venture investments in the United States. At whose expense? At the expense of those who enjoy the services of this institution. Then we're seeing a crack in the land phone, these last days. Yes, I do not hesitate to say that I believe that we were better off living up to the land phone owned by the people. In fact, it was a fine arrangement, a close addition to the Land Phone and the Mail, that benefited the inhabitants of the country. Let us not forget that our cell phone gave us the cheapest system in the world, and it also brought us considerable money into the government budget every year. This is weird. This doesn't work out with crisis. Senator. I mean, about the fact that I've misunderstood him completely. I am ready to - I listened to the talk, I listened to it. A senator, and I listened to himhv. þm. Frosta Sigurionsson. [[Did you listen to the talk?]] [[No.]] I heard him talk about fear, when the debate was about whether the Lands Bank was going to become a community bank. I also heard him talk about what he has so many times now, that it was considered a matter of opinion whether a community bank would pass a competitive law. I could understand that sentence by asking if he really felt that a bank thought to serve his clients would be there, that the emphasis would rest, rather than U.S. owners, would be a competitive law in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I listen to the senator and accept his words credible. [[No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u128	A respectable president. When it comes to an apartment loan fund that's supposed to be a community bank, there's been a lot of trouble over competitive legislation. For example, we also have a problem with the Government Radio. This knows why. A senator and he did not listen to my speech, otherwise he wouldn't have laid out because I had been talking about the Bank of Lands and the Bank of Stoogies in the 1980s. I was never talking about an apartment loan fund. That's an incredibly good rule, huh? paritaprevir Ögmundur's Jónasson, listening to a talk, and then taking an counter but not walking in the hall, making an answer, thinking that someone has said some things he has never said. I'll talk to you about what. A senator for bank cases at any time, but he asks him not to return to a speech I have not held. And if someone's a record holder in a failure of speech, that's what it is. paritaprevir For the simple reason that Jónasson's attitude does not bother him to listen to the talks of those to whom he wants to communicate. I drew attention to the fact that he thought it would be great if we had the Land Phone. We're in the middle of a phone market bullshit competition. That nobody like him. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's masks are held - they were so great the savings a few decades ago, we're supposed to go back there. My dear friends, my dear. Senators, you can't play on a time machine, it's just not like that, we're in the modern world. It is not enough to keep a talk about how great everything was when the Land Phone was with the mail and that we should be heading back there. That's not possible. We are in modern times, and the future will come sooner than later. Now, it's quite normal to discuss it, and I'll go over it, how we can minimize the responsibility of the taxpayers and how we can improve the interest of the households, but it's not enough to be in Notsia, and it's not enough to come here in a speech chair and answer the supposed talks of those here giving talks, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u129	V.E.G. President. I do not deny that my heart rejoiced. A senator would disown himself in this counterargument and in the case he handled today, but all of us are witnesses to what was said here, and of course we can also find it in the news. They were dealing with property plans on banks, financial institutions. That's what it said. Senator up for fear. I then took a form of property, social property, financial projects. I talked about an apartment loan fund, and I talked about the bank at the time. In view of this, I examined these comments about the fear of the steps. [[Up front.]] This is just how it is, and all those who have followed this discussion are clear and clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u130	Absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u131	Now we're discussing whether to permit the government to sell 30% of the Lands Bank, and that's a serious discussion. Hv. A senator here refers to me. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and we have a lot of experience in this discussion. When the banks were made part-mates and when the phone was made part-mate, we were always mistaken, it was just being adjusted. [[Up front.]] It never stood to sell. [[Up front.]] Nothing to sell, nothing to do. But, of course, all of that was done. Of course, our goals were perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u132	Swívía...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u133	They were perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u134	You were in a government that wanted to sell the banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u135	[[Up front.]] I'm talking about us bringing together the Lands Bank, and I'm agreeing with the head of the Allied Economic and Business Committee that the Council reviewed their position, and especially the government and the government, and the administrative sector, and turning away from its plans and that we are running together at the Bank of America, the Lands Bank. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u136	The president asks the senators to give a sound to the speakers. He is tolerant of successful careers, but not when many call out at once, it loses its mark.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u137	President. It's very interesting to be present at this discussion today, but I'm getting new into my new job. I especially want to pick out some points that I have found more interesting than others. First of all, it is the rule that seems to be to underestimate income into budgets because of financial expenditures made by financial institutions. It's a little special not to say it when everybody knows it's gonna happen. I wondered if this was the way we were doing in our communities, we'd probably get a letter from a local patrol on the financial matters. This needs to be changed and, of course, must be added to the strategy if it is clearly known that the income will come. I don't care if they make extra profits, but they cheer up the heart. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son when they come, it's just that, of course, this is to be inside. It has also been a bit fun watching how people have spoken in different directions, although they are part of the government, on the other hand. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson and the other. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson. They're totally speaking in different directions as to a community bank, and there's something special for me so recently come in here to listen to it. I don't know what the conclusion is, but it's certainly confusing. I'd like to take another point, i.e. The money they seem to be paying to the owner, to the State, and the hurry to sell. Why is selling quickly? I'd also like to take out another point that was in the discussion about the apartment loan fund. It was a term called marketing failure. I learned this concept when I was in the administration of Bus/National Travel by a Western Union community. At that time, it was a market failure to have patents that may have yielded profits. In this context, it was said that marketing failures regarding the camp loans. He should have just loaned money in places where real estate prices are much less than market prices. These are, in effect, a definition of personal profit and the financial cost. That's why when I hear that word, I tend to think a little bit of it, and I don't really like it very much. I'd like to get a word out of here too. paritaprevir I'm Karl Garðarsson's son. The budget bill speaks of 850 million in the construction of tourist facilities. He likes the highest. It's been arranged by the Minister of Industrial Affairs to reroute it all, and the council. I wholeheartedly agree with him, and I find it amazing how long it has taken me to get these things going. Meanwhile, the tourist attractions, like the Stykishole, are from where I come, and the Shinfellses are all and the West, and other places are in trouble by building up for the joyful increase in tourists. Because we are an island, this in itself is not complicated. All you have to do is make a decision. It was not long for humans to decide to lower hunting costs. Nor was the decision to reduce a sugar tax or to increase a tax of food. But it's quite amazing for the Reich, especially the highest. Secretary of the trade. I also enjoyed hearing the talk about the Land Phone. We who live in the country know this story, and the local councils know this story. It was said that the distribution system could not be removed from the Land Phone and was sold with it. Still, it was sold out of the Land Phone within a year. These are the rest of the scattered settlements that go on today. I know this very well, for the Shykisholm community, the Helgafells Squad, paid tens of millions of dollars to use fiber - optics, since no one could politically demand the same service. That is a considerable amount of money for a community of 53 or 56 people. They talked about it just before about the Lands phone that it had been an unfortunate system to sync the Landsphone with the mail. You see, I think it was quite clever. For example, in Stykisholmi, I watch that a bus comes in the south of Reykjavík by mail. Another bus comes in the morning with passengers. In the meantime, a car has brought the Mogga. Now it's not that I'm going to worry that Moggis made it to Stykisholm. [["Yes, he must come..."]] Maybe that's how the Mogg has its own sponsors in it and will continue to do so. However, my son may carry him into the neighborhood and the neighborhood, a well - working boy. It all came with the same car not years ago. Because there's always a business model being talked about and making a move, that's just the other way around. It's called cutting out the PCI, that three cars replace one. It was something special for me to feel that this has been negative.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He spoke some of my language, so it's probably normal to go over it a bit. The payments - the plan is being prepared for this institution that handles its property, its proposal is taken. If someone is criticizing that institution, it's probably, all things can be criticized. But that's the way it is. What is being done quickly to sell? It was in the last government that was decided to enter the budget to sell the Lands Bank, 30% and property, and it has not yet been done. Clearly, there is no tremendous speed. A market failure in terms of the apartment loan fund; it is said that private profits and regional resources are cost. In this way, the poor areas, the cold areas, were not taking particularly to them but to go through everything, and the cost has been huge for taxpayers. The way that had gone was not to take it out where there was a market failure but to be in all of it, and the conclusion is that the taxpayers could not have lost more. There's not one way. Unfortunately it took too long to fix the sink, but speaking of travel services, I think we all agree that we should harmonize it even more. The cost of fishing was specifically taken by smaller and medium-sized enterprises. A senator knows well from his own district. Perhaps we should have gone forward to make even greater fusion in that area, but I think it's something people don't think is very good. For example, regarding the guides, it was put here in Reykjavík, the official company that broke down, Line. A network that was supposed to be photo-irradiated. So it is not just a economic hope in this case, and it is a long way from doing so. Then I want to ask you what. There is no objection now to the fact that the morning newspaper and bus with passengers and to the bus of the mail are getting together if they want to: Count anyway. A senator that politicians are to organize these things? Does he think that the situation would be better if we were to try to plan this thing from the Council or from the Commission?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u139	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðlaugur has given Þór Þórðarson to come here and ask him a question. To be sure, selling a share in a bank was adopted in the last government. This does not necessarily mean that it is the right thing to do. There's nothing to hang on to. If it's not right today, you just have to discuss it. Hv. paritaprevir The Gudgle of Þórðarson often said here: We are in the present. And let's just stay there, too, about this matter. Regarding whether politicians are supposed to be getting involved in affairs is about that, if I understand that correctly, e - mail and communications, I'm totally suggesting that we should clearly do so. If it serves the interests of the scattered, we should do so and have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u140	A respectable president. Only for banks. Hv. A senator claimed that selling was in a hurry. I was pointing my tail. A senator has been authorized to sell these assets for a long time. So that claim does not hold back at a special speed. Here people speak and put things in such a way that we have the scattered settlements: Service is not as good as we wanted it to be, it would be great to go back. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, the count of Jónasson's son spoke seriously about our being better off if the state owned the Landsphone and the Mailman - we're supposed to be the postman - and would put it into one company, then the service was much better. I couldn't understand it any other way, and then what. A senator corrected me if I have interpreted his word wrong, but that he was pleased with the arrangement, that he would have wanted to see the Landsphone; mail and telephone as it was. What I'm pointing out is that at this time - I remember this time quite well. Good thing if the mail and phone didn't have at some point every telephone in the country. I think we rented them, but it can be wrong. They had a cord phone, not a cell phone. There was no Internet, and this incredible speed of evolution and diversity and competition on this market. We received enormous sums of money from the Land Phone when he was left for his own time. The loss that resulted from the investments of the Land Phone went to the owners of the Land Phone and to those who lent the Land Phone - or rather, Símanum, it's probably not even the Land Phone anymore. If they believe that in this environment, it's absolutely amazing that we have a government firm inside this market, this tremendous competition, the situation would be better, then it's just a question. Senators, and it's good to have her come out here. I just want to say, as it is, that I completely disagree with her, and I had no idea that there were such left-handed people in Iceland. It's good to be very clear in this discussion and confirmed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u141	President. Hv. A senator deals a lot about right-wing politicians, and I'm clearly in that group, and I'm proud of that, especially when it comes to a discussion like this on the Shiman public network. In this room, members of the country are familiar with the discussion taken at every meeting where local politicians meet with local government officials. It is the distinction that takes place regarding services. Hv. A senator here spoke of a fast network and such. Not everyone lives with it, that's the whole thing. That's what this is about. I'm not going to go further on this, but I just want to reiterate that I think we'd be much better off if we weren't the only distribution system of Shimans so we could make the claim that this country's residents are seated at the same level.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u142	A respectable president. It's been a nice talk. It's been going to a different place than we had planned. I would have felt that the basic questions in this case were about what should be in the budget because there is a specific definition of them. Some are unpredictable that humans cannot know about and therefore need to react in this way. It's an emergency. I have felt that many would agree to change that type of work, and it was determined. Government opposers to discuss this, but it seems to me that we have a lack of political solidarity on the real discipline of the money. Even at the highest. A government has, without doubt, taken a huge step in the direction and was delighted to see the improved wealth and subsidies that are extremely large, still lacking in a precipice of national discipline. There have been discussions, perhaps more than you would expect, but that is essential and that surprised me. I'd like to say the last thing I said. A senator about the distribution system - I can't blame him. A senator for that, it's not about it, it's coming in new, and with nice touch, material, and good talks - mention that this has been one of the main objectives of more part of the legal committee and the highest level. Governments to strengthen the distribution system throughout the country and have been given special financial support for the reasons involved. A senator specifically referred to the matter. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson and what. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson has set up a plan that I think is very good in cooperation with the highest level. Minister of the Interior state, and I hope that parapolitic communities will be able to conform to it. However, I did not expect to give a final talk to warn of ideas about a marvelous state of affairs in a highly competitive business, but I think there is a full reason to do so. People started talking about things that have been tried before, i.e. We've been paying and taking the cost directly from the taxpayers' pockets. I think we need to think that thing over. But it was added that they wanted the State to come with full force into a communication competition, and that is now just as dangerous as it is. Then there's the big thing I've often called attention to, and I think it should be our lesson of the global bank collapse, i.e. that we should act in such a way as to minimize the risk of finance to taxpayers. It's a global problem. Fortunately, we come out relatively well despite being in a more difficult position than many and perhaps most countries, because we did not use the money of taxpayers to a small extent compared to other countries in saving the banking system. But I'm absolutely convinced of it, unfortunately, and I know it, though I don't know when and hopefully it'll be in the farest future, that it will happen again that banks will fail. We'll see again the collapse of the bank. The key is that we have arranged the way for taxpayers to lose as little as possible. I don't think that we Icelanders or the nations that we compare with us have come to this place to minimise that risk. In fact, it is something of enormous importance, and as with many big issues, they are far too little to discuss. A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. I've thought she was very nice. If she wasn't directly on the subject, which was about the budget, at least she was very entertaining. I'll bet you I had a lot of fun with her, and a lot of things surprised me, especially the attitude of the left-minded politicians in this room, and you can at least tell you that there are some ideas that you thought were completely gone off the table, that are very much alive at the council's sales.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u143	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the Happreciation of Iceland's High School Act, No. 13/1973 lottery law for Icelandic tuberculosis and chest cancer patients, No. 18/1959, Code on the Death House of Elderly sailors, No. 16/1973, and a code on numerations, No. 26/1986, all with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that the extension of these lottery jobs by 15 years, to January 1, 2034, but the license to which they have been granted special contracts for each lottery runs all over at 2018/2019. With the above laws, Iceland's University and certain member organizations are authorized to operate lotterys and statistics to strengthen important issues. Iceland's University's lottery, which has been cleared since 1934, has been prepared for all construction projects and equipment purchases for Iceland's University, thereby being an invaluable source and also saving financial expenses. The profit of the Bibliographical Fundaments of the United States, which has been authorized to run a lottery since 1949, should be devoted to paying the basic cost of smoking gaming, a rehabilitation center, to a laboratory for micro-organism and to the other social activities of the European Union of TB and thoracic patients. The Christmas Day organization in Reykjavík and Hafnarfjörður has been in charge of Happy DAS since the start of the year 1954. The wealth of the lottery goes to construction projects for the elderly on the behalf of the organization. Iceland's team of sports, ISI, and Iceland's Young People Association, as well as Iceland's Institute of Environment, have had permission to work together both numbers and letters since 1986 and are fired in the name of the Icelandic prognostics. Benefits of the work shall be spent on the advancement of the country's sports and youth activities and to pay stock costs for the housing of micro-terrestrial areas or to be subject to other activities of the Micro-Lowing Community in the case of micropair. The business has had a lot of financial significance for the owners. V.E.G. President. As a result of planning and operating security, it may be necessary to extend permission to lottery failure on time. It makes it easier for the players to watch for a long time and to be practical, such as business and business plans. Among other things, Icelandic prognostications have pointed out the importance of improving the company's work permit in time because of investments in re-making sales and information systems. Since the work permit of all these lotteries and Icelandic forecasts is completed at the same time, it is considered that their license will be extended at the same time. A respectable president. I'd like to state that this bill is only a warning to these factors. There are no regulations to make changes in the country's environment. On the other hand, I would like to find that the discussion becomes louder than ever to be viewed as an online lottery, for example. For example, the members I've mentioned here have had the opinion of the Ministry that they need to be viewed by the members of this seminar class. I agree, it has to be done. This bill does not prevent it from being done, it is a matter of personal business. When that job is finished, which I expect we'll soon return to the Ministry, there's a small number of cases waiting to come to the council and put pressure on staff because of that. So it has not been possible to start basic work on this matter, but I think it is inevitable that it will be done. That's what I'm willing to do. I just want to reiterate that with this bill, there's no way you're pressing on to that point. I think it is important that this view be expressed on my part to members of the General and Education Committee that will now discuss this matter. I know the committee's gonna cover it thoroughly, but I'm going to emphasize this aspect of the matter. Therefore, at the end of this history, I would like to ask for the bill to be followed by this discussion to be referred to. General and educational committees for the proper treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u144	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 4/1995 of the income populations. This is a suggestion for provisional regulations with the law on a special contribution from the County Fund. The bill is employed in collaboration with the European Union and is its contents in line with the approved administration of the Union from 27 June 2014. According to the Treaty on rural income, a contribution from a government fund of 2.12% of the taxpayers is made to a branch office. There is an increase in the income of the state funds due to the pressures of a special tax on a financial enterprise under the law of No. 155/2010, therefore, yields an increase in income in the SEC, which is a proportion of the income for the tax. It is estimated that in the first part of the above period, from the middle of 2014 to the year 1015, the increase in income will be less than $1.1 billion; however, there is some uncertainty as to the extent of the increase in income over the next two years. It is unchanged that the extra revenues of rural income are set aside according to the general rules of the income-separated institutions of the fund. However, the bill means that from the middle of 2014 onward, these revenues will be divided directly to their share in national total response. Is the purpose of meeting the temporary subsidies of the law on special savings and its provision for the payment of mortgages and housing supplies, No. 40/2014, but as indicated by their bill of law, they lead to a temporary reduction in rural income due to more saving in the form of special property and tax pay. It should be noted in particular that the bill does not affect the overall contribution of an equation fund to the rural community but only the exchange of these revenues between local institutions. V.E.G. President. A similar law was given in the Internal Minister's bill on a change in the law on the income populations in the autumn of 2014, but it was canceled at the proposal of the Council's Environment and Transport Committee. The committee talked about the need for further consideration in the light of comments she had received and the short notice she had in handling the matter. Afterward, the Commission's directive was to cooperate with the European Union. The conclusion of the review was that nothing was made that called for a change in the provision, but to ensure an even more reasonable exchange of this special contribution between rural society was decided that we were to be viewed as sharers in the total response to their share in total black populations. Thus, the decision made by the individual member of the rural population on the response rate was relevant to the decision made by the member of the Member State in this special contribution. Farmers who do not fully use authority to get an answer load are thus receiving a donation in accordance with this use, but in previous implementation they would have been assigned as if they were fully reassigned to respond. This is, therefore, a more reasonable way to go now. Since the distribution of the special contribution of the equation due to the period from the middle of 2014 to 2014 /2015 is now not carried out until this year, the bill is also a law-enforcement measure of how it should be distributed. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggest that after this discussion, it be referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u145	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her history in this matter. This matter was addressed to us on the Environment and Transport Committee at the last Parliament, and as she could rightly so, there was little time for it to be won. It was supposed to run out in a few days. I've asked the communities, especially the smaller ones in the country, how they feel about the bill, and they didn't seem to have heard of it. So I'd like to ask the Minister - I'm sorry to go to the top. Mr President, do I have an answer or a speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u146	Talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u147	I'm in a speech. All right. I thought I was opposed. Then the minister may have an opportunity to answer this later. It seemed to me that many of the smaller communities were not aware of this. Perhaps the Minister can establish whether this has been introduced by other rural communities or whether they are aware that a so-called bank tax from a special means is being passed by an equation fund, from smaller rural areas to the larger. The larger rural areas have more populations that use their special savings and thus become earnable. I also wondered, " Is this in opposition to my law on the balance fund, to meet the less income-infested societies, and to have less than the amount of farm society, such as Reykjavíkurburg? ' I'm going to throw in one number, which may be irresponsible of me, but the whole London answer, U.S.A., was 36%. I read it somewhere, which means that Reykjavíkurburg gets 36% of this bank tax at my company's expense. I wondered if it's what the council wants to do. I also wondered, " Which way has this come into the council? ' I remember this case coming through Reykjavíkurburg, from there to the Union of Iceland and from there into the Ministry. In part, this may explain why smaller communities do not seem aware of this matter. At any rate, I feel that way now until other comments are made. I hope that my community especially - not just Reykjavíkurburg and Hafnarfjörður, who gave the report last time - will give some comments on this matter. This is about a very large amount of money that goes past the equation fund and the sharing and the rules we have set for ourselves. Here, too, it was discussed that the operation would have an effect on rural society, but as I read the bill, bank tax is an addition to the income stock that now enters the equation. That's why these are additional revenues that go to the balance fund that I like to distribute to larger rural groups. I wondered if it's a fair split. I haven't quite figured out the change in this bill, that the landing rate depends on the response, but not on the overall share of the local community that the Minister said was a more reasonable way. I take it as a good thing, but I wonder if it is generally fair to locals who are fighting in backs and who really need that money. We know of rurals who are in financial trouble. This may also be useful for the communities who are thinking of being united or otherwise in that way. Otherwise, I'm just looking forward to dealing with this bill on the environment and transport committee. We'll see what happens there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u148	Mr. President. It's always complicated to talk when you go over what's fair to do every time. In this regard, it is important that the general contribution is not being taken off the terms of rural society. That law stands for its own, and it is clear, and its rules are very clear. This refers to isolated cases due to special reasons for the stress of a bank tax, as well as to the status of each member of the country that falls from earnings due to its special property. These rural communities are being met because the impact on them was greater. Is that fair? You can ask yourself that question and have a different view. This loss of income may have resulted in larger rural areas. How important it is in this regard to realize that this is a matter of compromising a principle! A new principle is not being developed; a principle is being set aside in specific cases. It is true that the European Union was interested in the local community and pointed to the problem of the equation because it is responsible for having contact with rural areas in the country. Hv. A senator knows from his work on the Environment and Transport Committee that in the fall of 2014, smaller communities became disgruntled, many of them, especially the smallest, by giving them more share than this. It's just a view that people have to weigh and weigh. It is now the responsibility of the committee to do so. You have to do this with the overall interest, the interests of all rural society in the country, and also look to the special position that is playing when talking about the pressures of special taxes and how it affects individual communities. It's important for us to look at the whole thing, as I said, and to appreciate what people want to do in this regard. It is clear that in this matter, as in many other matters, there are two sides, especially when it comes to compromising matters slightly. I reiterate it, and I strongly emphasize that the basic work of a community is not being adjusted by this law but is only facing this particular matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u149	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to agree with almost every word the Minister said. We need to consider these matters carefully and look at both views. I was not going to speak in a way that would allow for the disintegration of my team members. I hope it didn't get that way. What we ministers have to contend with is that I do not view larger rural areas as a loss of income, even though people make use of their special savings. They are not affected because they are making money for the future. Let's say a young man like me took advantage of his special savings, my country club would be losing income that I might take out in 50 years. That's why I don't consider this to be some kind of loss of income for my rural society today and not a blow, but it's a future income stock that we've decided people are going to take advantage of right now. We may be inclined to make it up to local communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u150	A respectable president. I didn't want to extend this more than I need, but I thought it was a reason to come up here and agree with it at the highest. Minister that it is not to interfere with the role of rural funds, as I understand the matter, to balance the facilities and income as well as other less rural communities have towards the larger ones, but to a special and special situation, since larger rural areas have actually been derived from this tax-incomement gain. I think it's very important to be looked into so that we don't go into some age-old grave about the difference between larger and smaller communities, because I just don't think it applies in this particular case. I think there's been a fair solution in a complex matter here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u151	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Heiða the daughter of Kristín Helgadóttir before her brief, clear speech. She spoke of special situations, and that is certainly true. This is a suggestion that this value should be applied in 20147/2017, while the special delivery route is in force. I'd like to ask her if her attitude on this matter and these unique circumstances would change if we were to make the special way permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u152	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the question. I don't know that well enough to be able to express myself about it. I feel that it would then be a discussion that would have to be carried out within the Union of Iceland and elsewhere if this way were to provide lasting benefits for people. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u153	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 52/2006, Iceland National Reservation, with subsequent changes. The bill recommends that the National Relations Guard be permitted to include a minister's approval in foreign cooperation projects, as such a project will not be very important that the Agency is not allowed to perform its legal function under the law. The National Guard informs the secretary of the project and its scope as well as its high - risk assessment. Thus, in the law of the National Relation Guard of Iceland, it will be clear to accept cooperation assignments abroad to accept the approval of Ministers to meet the specified criteria. The current legislation is, of course, laid down on the Agency's authority to negotiate a service agreement with a specific subject in its field, but it is not specifically mentioned in foreign projects, and it is intended to make clear that this law is available. The bill complies with the National Accounting Commission's suggestion that such legislation needs to be clearly stated and that more intensive monitoring of the Home Ministry is needed to ensure that foreign projects of the Agency are not important to the Agency that the Agency cannot perform its role here on land in an acceptable manner. From 2010 onward, the National Guard has carried out assignments from abroad with the intention of earning money to keep patrol ships, helicopters, and business airplanes in the holding hours of government spending. The Agency has been able to train staff, develop knowledge and raise funds for the maintenance of aircraft, helicopters, and patrols. The European Union (Frontex) and the European Union Fishing Agency (EFCA) have done an important work in the Mediterranean Sea and on the coasts of West Africa. It shall then be stated that it is now being cooperated with Iceland's National Reservation Guard that a longer-term programme for the QA will establish which level of service to be maintained here, defined as the key objectives and effectiveness parameters. The bill aims to facilitate the systematic monitoring of Iceland's National Relations. It can be expected that this quality will continue to take place in foreign assignments, making it a clear ground for law. The Agency has emphasized that these projects do not affect the basic services it should provide for law enforcement and security in Iceland. Similarly, they have been required to support this basic service when the goose has had to adjust its operations. V.E.G. President. I've explained the main points of the bill and suggested that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u154	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. It was shown in a case of the highest order. A minister to stress the fact that foreign projects will not be so extensive that they will affect national projects as well as show that the objective of the bill was to clarify our participation, to improve into the law on our participation in foreign assignments. To me, this law is pretty open. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in view of the fact that Iceland is an armed nation but is very often in cooperation with an army abroad on missions, whether or not it is quite certain that this is not an element for participation in military action or the participation of the Marine Railroad in military training in foreign countries, whether it is quite clear that it is not part of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u155	V.E.G. President. There is nothing like that in the bill. Here, mainly under foreign assignments, we have seen the development of the past few years, and I mentioned the work that the goose has been doing. I think it's only right that we should be careful that our legal foundation is clear. There's nothing else involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u156	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. I'm so happy to hear that no military exercises hang on that one, because I completely agree with other aspects of the work that it's important to have improved for the work we're already doing. I've read the State Review report, and I agree with the highest. The minister to address the points made are legitimate, and it is a good thing to deal with them. But it's not quite in the air that I raised these questions, since already it is, for example, that the Marine Corps is important when it comes to air space protection in this country. That's why it was important for me to get it up in my discussion that with the bill, which is as if I say a little open in word, it wasn't the meaning of opening up our military involvement in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u157	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize a third-generation cell phone, No. 8/2005. The bill suggests that the law about a third generation of cell phones fail. However, it is stated in a provisional directive that the frequencies produced on the grounds of the law maintain their values to the end of the source so that no doubt about the rights of the current rights are guaranteed. By dismissing law No. 8/2005 declines the frequency range to be used for 3G cell service only and the frequency range can be used for new technologies. This arrangement no longer has the standard limit of frequency for the 3G cell phone service but will involve the technical frequency range. This means that the range of frequencies in question will not be confined to certain technologies or standards. These changes mean that once the law has fallen out of force, there will be general frequency rules for this frequency area, which are found in the communication law. 81/2003. These changes work to follow the same technology development as well as international development in the utilisation of technological rates and, at the same time, create as the most practical environment for the period of employment use. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environmental and transport committees for the proper treatment of the environment and the management of the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u158	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the European Convention on Human Rights, No. 62/1994, with subsequent changes. The bill is suggested to XV. In addition to the Convention of Human Rights, it will be legalized, while the Council of Ministers adopted the Council's Committee for Ministers on May 16, 2013. Because of the great number of cases in the European Court of Human Rights, a review of the fundamental role of the Court's surveillance work has been under way for several years. This problem has been taken to solve both the member countries and the European Council but also within the court. New legal procedures have been adopted, changes have been made to the European Convention and Member States have tried to increase the knowledge and education of the Treaty and the monitoring system of the European Council. It has then been emphasized that Member States are seeking to prevent situations that lead to individuals'having to plead a case under the court. In recent years, conferences for the future of the European Court of Human Rights have been held, including Interlaken 2010, Izmir in 2011 and Brighton in 2012 During the last session, the so - called Brighton Declaration was published, which suggests, among other things, some improvements in the European Convention of Human Rights. In accordance with the Brighton Declaration, the addition of XV increases the responsibility of Member States to protect and ensure human rights and the best way to reduce the number of lawsuits in the court is to ensure that protection from human rights is at home without having to consult the court. XV extensions primarily include certain interpretation rules as outlined in its prologue. Sentences at the age of judges are changed, and deadlines are shortened. Then there are certain changes to the conditions for leaving a higher law order as well as the court's authorization to dismiss a case that has not caused a significant disturbance. The aim of a judge's age sentence is to allow qualified judges to function throughout the ideal period, i.e. 9 years, thus strengthening stability within the court. Then, from six months to four months, changes are made, in accordance with a lawsuit in the Member States. Moreover, because of the trend in communication technology, including increasing speed in communication, this change will have little effect on the individual's ability to bring charges to the court. Changes in the handling of the court are required to ensure compliance and to shorten the procedure. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u159	Madam President. I recommend a greater part of the employment committee. As the president has presented in one of the committee's panels, there will be two primes I will then introduce to you. The goal of the bill is to unite the Habitat Research Institute and Fishing Institute into one institution known as ocean and water research. On one hand, there is a bill for a new study in a consulting agency that provides advice on the Directorates' Committee, the role of the Agency, cooperation with university, etc. and on the other hand, a bill for a law to change the various laws because of the unity of the institutions. More than a part of the employment committee proposed changes to the bills at the last Parliament, and they are now reassigned to the greater part. They're on it. 328 and 329. On one hand, there are several corrections on the bill to legalize various laws because of the unity of the Marine Research Institute and the Fishing Agency. However, it is suggested that at the Mediterranean and Water Research bill, employees maintain collective rights requiring re-education and extended post-launch notices in the same institution. A provision for temporary implementation of the bill for a law on marine and water research is that it is possible to appoint directors to the new office in the implementation of the law if the bill is under law. In terms of the implementation of the law on January 1, 2016, the director of the new institution will have time to prepare the organization and its activities. Comments were made on the decomposition of the institutions. A greater part of it feels that it is important that the director of the new agency have room to plan its activities and to hope that it will succeed. In this way, the more part attaches hopes that, in the least of the disorders, there will be a breakdown in the number of workers and that they will be consulted as possible. The majority also feel that the interpolation costs of the Agency's cohesion are not related to their activities but, rather, to their costs by special means. Under this heading, write why. Chairman of the Professional Road Committee, Jón Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Indriðadóttir Injuriadóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u160	Madam President. I'd like to get involved in this conversation a little bit. You might conclude that there was a small matter here that did not deserve discussion. The answers are discussed here, which is unusual at 2 Peter 3: 1. Umm., perhaps not entirely without precedent, but it has not been customary to agree that a prime alarm is recommended for 1st. A shortcut to their detriment was made by uniting a 2nd entrail. and probably 3rd. If so. But they can't be elected in one piece, Mr. President. It's restricted by law. There are two aspects of this case that I'd like to make only a subject. The first is to address the method to use to unite two federal institutions. They are not entirely new, but the present government seems to be developing the kind of work of laying down jobs and reassigning them to a new institution instead of being transferred to their jobs. Even if all are required to be offered as temporary jobs, that does not change, for it has the right effect of breaking up or ending their jobs by law and reenacting them. It seems to me that the committee applied itself, in line with the changes it makes here, to ensure that certain rights associated with the recruitment relationship of employees with its former or existing organisation are not lost in the transfer. In this regard, the workers'organization pointed out that this is dangerous in this process because humans may be overlooked in the possibility that some rights might be lost if a person breaks the employment relationship and writes men. This is specifically sewed in holes, which I assume has been discovered in the treatment of the case, i.e. that employees who will be hired will maintain rights which they have earned for study permit and for a prolonged notice under the collective agreement of the Icelandic naturalists and financial secretary, which is based on continuous employment in the same institution. Now I really hope that people have calmed down in this regard and are convinced that there may be no other rights to which something can make a difference and then go in this way. Although I'm not in a position to say anything about it, I know at least so much that many rights are involved in working hours and length of work. Apart from other views related to progress in the workplace, things such as vacation rights, retirement rights, even the rights of illness, and many other factors may be involved. Then, too, even though the new agency cannot immediately assume the nature of the case, the director of the new agency's appointment is then taken into custody. I readily admit that these things may not have been fully fixed and sufficiently fixed in the process of making changes. We certainly ran into the last term when the government's structure and operations were widely reorganized. There was a variety of culture, so to speak, within different methods of counsel, so that microchips that came prepared from different plots were not necessarily comparable. I remember that the management company drew our attention at one time during the middle of the last term that things had to be harmonized so that these things weren't being done in different ways in each case. Of course, it would naturally be the most reasonable thing to do in the general way. Perhaps the present government has entered this direction, which is now called and may have seen before, in the institution of the Institute of Education, I think. Then, of course, it's her political responsibility, but I don't think it will change the duty of the rest of us to wonder if this is necessarily the right and the most reasonable way to do it. If that's all you can do in order to achieve a synergistic effect with the strains, and it's certainly not intended to be one or any way at the expense of the workers' rights, and it's also not in the cards to reduce the number of employees to the expected end of the work, it's in my opinion that there is no particular recommendation for this mechanism. The most natural way for the recruitment relationship to remain unopened to the new agency would be to be found. Of course, it can be arranged in a simple way in a temporary arrangement if it is necessary to simply carry out their work, counting from time to time to time for employees of the new institutions. We've been aware of this aspect of the matter, and I think that it has been discovered that there was a reason to consider this part of the staff. Our agent on the pro board, huh? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, gave a special party on this at the General Parliament in spring as a result of drawing attention to the main business involved and that the staff and their unions had not been adequately consulted to ensure that the ideal workers were not affected. It can also be said that although there has been no strictly professional assessment of the benefits of such unity, it is expected in the way the State has tried to shape them. Now, from 2008, I quote the 2008 financial Ministry report that the plan is to build an institution of human resources that will become united and that it needs to be thought carefully at all levels of the process how the integration affects employees and what they carry from them. It is not enough to examine simply and narrowly what changes should be made to an appropriate agency, a trust fund, or a user, even if all of this is important. Then just the second thing that I wanted to make a subject, professional evidence for this union. Perhaps the head of the committee can tell us more about this if he wanted to respond to the data that the committee had on how to reach that conclusion at the highest level. A government uniting up a hunting agency and a Marine Research Institute, apart from the fact that I'm not the source of this name that's supposed to try to put it on, ocean and water research. I can rather imagine that we Icelanders, the seaside nations, the families of the Marine Research Institute continued, the Merro, that as a much larger part of these projects and institutions would have deserved to keep the name without me minimizing the role of a hunting agency in any way that is the greatest organization and has done a good job in the research of the environment and ecosystems of the country. Here's some background that I find a reason to review, and it has to do with the review of the Board of Directorates during the last term when they were building up on the job and innovations, uniting the issues of every industry in hopefully one acronym of the Ministry and moving the issues of innovation under which I believe was a great step of progress and should not be backed up, though it may be said that part of the process has already been done by taking part of the Ministry in half-pricelation and putting it under two Ministers. There were issues of opinion that had to be well considered, and one of them was where a hunting agency should be saved in this new landscape in the presence of the Ministry of Employment and Development and the Ministry of Environment and Resources. The two Ministry and Ministers who worked for this cooperation needed to consider a number of opinions on this subject, and that was what we did. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, then environmental minister. One of the institutions that may not have been clear where to be saved was a hunting agency. Various people were sorry that she ran away from the commercial hat and felt that it should continue to exist with the new Department of Employment and Development. To be honest, the Agency's ideas were not mixed up with much else in this matter. The result was in a good agreement with the council to put an independent professional paper on where it would be most appropriate for the Council's new landscape to save a Veterans Institute. It was done, conducted by the participants to make an assessment of the function, the nature of the work being done there, and tried to read it into the new context. The conclusion was that the evidence recommended by the Environment and Resource Ministry was in place for basic research work, certainly a particular service as well as hunting companies, but the nature of the operation and purpose should be far more related to the thought of basic resource applications than simply the use of innovations, or the management of innovations, such as of course the Marine Research Institute, works in the hands of a Minister on the decision to raise and otherwise. In fact, the new landscape, and hopefully for some other part, was thought on the basis that we had two departments who, of course, worked very closely together, where the resource approach would be, research, map and care for the resource and set up standards for sustainable use, and, on the other hand, a government agency that controlled the efficiency, the decision to gain and control the efficiency, gave them individual bodies permission for innovation, etc. Now it seems to me that the present government is about to disappear to some extent and rewind. I haven't heard any new arguments or, in fact, any particular evidence is involved, except for them, perhaps, that it should just go back to the Department of Professional and Organism. I don't know that even though I've had an understanding of both views, it's in any way dependent on the Agency to be saved at the Environment and Resource Ministry. I was convinced that before I, as a marine eco-efficiency and agricultural minister and trade minister, and a professional industrial minister at the time, I agreed to the results of a professional approach, that the hunting agency was more part of, and was more related to the thought laid up in the institutions of the Environment and Resource Ministry. I'm sorry. I'm going to have to keep this all on notice. I have no firm conviction that it is right to go back there, and it is generally not a good option for institutions to live on the fact that they are moved back and forth within the board in this way. In an institution such as a hunting agency, which is not very large, with less than 20 employees I guess, in fact, some of the jobs that are spread around the country that are good because of the projects being there, surely can be an additive effect in uniting it with larger unity. But then there comes the question of where she was best, living with what work to do. Is it necessarily a Merition Institute? From a point of view, people may think that this is a lot of work together, but better still, when they're doing some separate work, they're working in both places. In effect, much of the same is recommended by the cohesion of the Agency with the EEA or the National Institute of Natural Health, such as the National Research Centre. This, I would've liked to see that men had been through quite well again if they were going to take a trip again with this institution. Besides, I have not personally heard that there was any particular problem with operating it simply as an independent institution. It has also proved to be an independent unit, not a large booth, and has been flexible in its activities. I think that, in general, there was an excellent atmosphere in her cohesion and relations with parties such as hunting and farmers and others whose nature in life has had to do or relate to her activities, using the results of her research and work. My position is the same as our representative on the job committee had during the last term, that there was not enough evidence to support this change, that this case had been better handled as to the rights and interests of employees, and although the committee apparently tried to correct some of the changes, I have no place to dictate it or to have strong opinions about whether it is done sufficiently. These were the views, Madam President, which I would like to have shown up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-10-30.u161	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change to the General and Education Committee on bill to correct the change of various laws to prepare the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinctors. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Þorsteinn Gunnarsson and Bryndís Helgadóttir from Internal Affairs. The bill was submitted to the 144th legislation of legislatures at the time of 466, but it could not be settled. The bill is submitted in the same form and supported the Commission with reviews from the previous council in order to handle the case. The objective of the bill is to modify the concept use in various laws, in line with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people on the land. It is also suggested that law No. 25/1962, for assistance to the disabled, and for Article 3. Orders on the authority of the bishops to give an exception to the European Commission order. The Commission points out that the bill is part of the legal process that must take place in order for Iceland to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, as the General has already decided. The committee takes the importance of working on needed improvements as much as possible. A review of the Institute of Disability Research points out that there were defects in the current significance of the agreement. The committee discussed the matter and feels strongly that the Ministry of Internal Affairs examines the whole contract in view of the indications that have been presented regarding translation or use of words. The committee suggests one adjustment in legal aspects. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 17th par. put it this way: Instead of the word 'flirty-knits 1st, par. The words of the law come to you: the disabled. Under the opinion of a member of the committee, Chairman Konráðsdóttir Konásdótttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Hörður Ríkharðsson Helgi of Arnnson, Hen Gunnarsson, Steingrímsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
