ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u1	As announced at a meeting yesterday, the President of Generalis has received a program proposal, as follows: We sign a proposal, with the reference at 1.mg. 77st. Conventional contracts, that the first item at the next meeting will be the following: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. Special discussion, please. Twelve o'clock, the insurance policy and the government's policy declaration. A verbal vendetta will be Sigríður Ingadóttir and will be answered as Prime Minister. 3. International Development Teams of Iceland (increase in efficiency, organization, development community in Iceland), etc. (Etanrrah.; 91st case, J. 91, needle. 285 and 299. - Frah. 2nd. 4. Visitors' cashiers, special discussion at the end of the week. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. Adolescent Agmagnifice of Jónasson, to answer to industrial and commercial ministers. 5. An analysis of the joint benefits of a Western holiday contract and a Western business council, a soup. How Would You Answer? 75. - Previous round. 6th Long-term transport and infrastructure policy in Western America, so-called. How Would You Answer? 76. - Previous round. 7. Grouping with Greenland and Faeroe Islands on fishing, soll. How Would You Answer? 77. - Previous round.How's it going? This is what you're gonna sign. Councilmen Inst. Hjörvar, Shoggis Svavarsdóttir, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson son of Gjön, and Páll Valur Björnsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u2	A respectable president. Prime Minister refuses to take a special discussion on the decommissionment of insurance and points the responsibility to the secretary of finance. But it wasn't Bjarni son of Benediktsson who promised abduction insurance policy, it was Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and that's why he's here at the council. If the advance team had given Bjarni Benediktsson, a declared opponent forbidding insurance, responsibility for the case, the decision of the party not to fulfill the election promise, and even more reason to answer the forwardeer's leader. The exception of prime minister has been that the matter is on the table of other ministers. However, the prime minister here has taken a special discussion about the European Union and the affairs of immigrants, obviously at the table of other ministers. Therefore, it is evaporation and flight to refuse to discuss the largest campaign of its own elections and the policy of its own governments when the council is searched, and this proposal is moved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u3	A respectable president. It is embarrassing, of course, that a program is needed by the General to create normal relations with the Supreme Court. Prime Minister to whom he should have shown his worth in dealing with, i.e. Requesting a natural discussion about one of the greatest campaign campaigns before the last election, if not the greatest campaign promises of all time. It is noteworthy that in the case of this group, a respected president of the oracle would direct his spears to the group. I must say, I find the most interesting situation in Icelandic politics. The prime minister has begun his resigning now in the first category, which focuses on the insurance and its deduction. V.E.G. The prime minister cannot discuss this matter, and I ask: What question is next?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u4	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister leads the government, leads a group that emphasized the importance of the removal of the insurance policy, and that makes it very strange. The prime minister should not want to represent his case in a special discussion. I think there's good reason to support this program proposal and put it forward, and I myself had a lot of trouble in the season of vote in getting the highest. Prime Minister to come to the Assembly Hall and participate in a special discussion. Two of my requests have failed in this regard. One was about to be decommissioned, and I simply decided to have this conversation with another minister, and it went smoothly. However, I wanted to give the cause of a special discussion about the state of the sovereign government and the EEA contract, but it did not, and that request ran out. So I have full understanding that humans are trying to use unusual methods and programs in an effort to get the highest power. Prime Minister to come to the Assembly Hall and have special discussions with members of the council. However, it seems somehow that all requests for special discussions at the highest level. Prime Minister ends up as a very special discussion of him and his attitude toward the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u5	A respectable president. It will be interesting to see how the vote will go, whether or not the greater part of the council made up of government groups, including others who promised to take out bail, will vote for a proposal to take up bail. It's more than halfway through the year. Reports say the world's highest. The secretary of the budget does not intend to eliminate insurance. Rather, he intends to change the times and the odds. Then you have to wonder what happened to the political barriers mentioned earlier in connection with the European Union and its application. Trust the highest. Prime Minister. Secretary of finance to cancel insurance, i.e. Contradict it? Don't you think it's best if we talk about it? Is it not best for us to include in the program a discussion on this subject? I look forward to seeing how the advance party prefers to vote on this matter, or rather, I worry about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u6	A respectable president. It would be possible to have some understanding of this position at the highest level. If he was consistent with himself in this regard, prime minister, but as here is the case. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, he himself has repeatedly agreed to a special discussion of matters that are authentic in the topic fields of other ministers. Then, too, he does not want to have a word with the council on matters that prove to be true in his responsibilities. He thus denies a discussion here with us each fall for the provision of the provision of the legislation and the memory protection that he will hear under his own decision. As a result, this is the case with the highest degree. A minister is not responsible for what he is not responsible for or for what he is responsible for. All he seems to trust to talk about with the council under the Ministry of Premiers is the flag, the tail, and the national anthem. This shows pretty much what happens to the state of the highest. Prime Minister. And it may not be surprising that the group of fellow workers has already tried their chairman on the throne of prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u7	Mr. President. I support this program proposal. I listened to the highest. Instead, the prime minister or read his notice that he was ready to discuss the insurance policy with anyone, including the action directors of the Waves and even the Union as it was said, I don't know if it was right. I just don't understand why it can't happen at the council. V.E.G. During the day, I had a pleasant discussion with the prime minister about refugees'affairs, even though they are at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, on the other hand, the highest. Minister of state. I think the highest. The prime minister must find a solution so that he can discuss his major campaign here at the council, both as prime minister, the head of the government, and the head of the forward party. I suggest the highest. The prime minister informs us how he will follow his firm will to discuss this matter at the council and even with the United States so that we can get some relief from this matter rather than from being in some position to discuss what may be and what may not be the subject of a special discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u8	V.E.G. President. I must now say that I feel that these program proposals and discussions here are unprecedented, if not unprecedented acting. Of course, if members of Congress want to file a case, there is a special discussion to do so, but there are many other ways to address a matter. If there is no agreement between the local minister and the senator on how to conduct a specific discussion, there are many other ways to handle this case, depending on the costs or other matters, on the program at the council. Forewords, oral, written, unprepared, many other means, the transfer of Congress and the like. I don't see what the problem is, and I have to say that I'm wondering if this kind of proposal now serves some purpose in the case of delays in another subject scheduled today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u9	A respectable president. Of course, some things they're not going to do nothing about. Of course, it's all right to make this program proposal, and I'm going to support it. It is understandable that one candidate after another is now writing in the magazines and getting up in the platform and wondering if these matters cannot be saved. I'm just wondering how to get to the top. The secretary of finance is about to be in the role of Albania in this case because, of course, the senators are not ashamed of financial ministers in this matter. They're ashamed of it in China, the highest. Prime Minister, in this regard. It's no problem to support this program. I don't think she's unprecedented. paritaprevir He's got a Birgir's Ármannsson on the line. I think she'd have been self-centered, though she'd have been before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u10	President. I think it must be world record, because it's the highest. Prime Ministers are large for being in the best category or at all times in the highest level. I think it's a high level of nonsense that Prime Minister won't agree to have a discussion about the main vote of his party. [[The point is, isn't he...?]] He has denied it since February. It seems to me then eight or nine months, and this must be set as a program so that the prime minister will come and discuss his campaign with the General. A respectable president. This is a world record.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to ask that question to the highest level. President if they have not met on Monday on the Committee to Presidency and with the heads of Congress. - Silence is agreed, so the meeting seems to have been conducted. It is quite remarkable, therefore, that the presidents of the General Assembly of the Community are making a new program for today's meeting program because the meetings of members of the board and the presiding committee are organized for the week's session. How can you cooperate with such people who constantly put their words behind you? The week's schedule was held with the approval of these parties, but of course these people did not have any agreement. This illustrates this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u12	A respectable president. The subject of insurance is at the table of prime minister at his convenience. But once he sees the face of failure to fulfill his promises, he throws the hot potato in his arms at the secretary of finance. V.E.G. The prime minister has already had a subject of insurance insurance in his arms from elections. He had a report made. The Ministry of Presidency released it. Since he has taken this matter into his own hands, he is to put in the discussion of coming here and discussing the insurance policy with members of the council. That's not acceptable. paritaprevir Asks the Birgir of an Ármannsson, that ministers decline for nearly a year to discuss certain matters they would like to discuss with them. This alone is very serious, and other stewards may be commended that they do not act that way. There is only one minister who does, and that is the prime minister of Iceland. A respectable president. This government closed the way that the former government put into which the euro was recorded and so out of insurance. [[The president calls.]] There has been no alternative, so we must call for a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u13	A respectable president. I've been watching this case pretty excited about it. ... anti-enemies. I think we've got a board off our backs. Government opposers up here trying to explain why they make this suggestion that most contemporaneous men tell me to be unprecedented. [[Up front.]] It's like everybody's driving. I know that there are many ways to discuss these matters at the highest level. While prime minister and general discussion of these matters, of course, are of great importance, people still choose to take the time for the council to do so. You must ask yourself, " Why? ' Could explain that this is a new form of filibration on the basis of no. 2 on the program? Could it be, and would it not be closer that men try to explain their point in this strange matter instead of going into this act, like a dog. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson called earlier? This is not helping Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u14	A respectable president. I don't fully understand what's going on here. I've got an anxiety bump in my stomach and everybody laughs at some nervous laugh around here. I understand this meeting and this hall, so we're supposed to be discussing the issues that are important to our community and I have to say that it is a tremendous disappointment to feel like a top person. Prime Minister does not want to talk to the council. He may well feel that we are all impatient and boring, but his role is to have a conversation with us. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson said that there were many ways for members of Congress to deal with ministers and other members of Congress, and there could be some advice here if treaties were not available. I have a question in my mind about a very important matter, I feel personally, to the highest degree. Prime Minister, for whom I have not received an answer. [[The president calls.]] I haven't had any doubt that it's coming or that it's been postponed or anything. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have to admit that it's like being in some surreal marriage counsel to be in here with people who hate each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u15	Mr. President. It's all getting really embarrassing, at least. Prime Minister. Of course, the government's situation must use all the necessary measures, including this program proposal to try to get to the highest level. Prime Minister to discuss one of the greatest campaign campaigns of the forward party. I'm starting to think it's the highest. The prime minister is calling for attention, that everything is about him, where he is, and why he is not in the council. Is this some sort of attention - disorder as a high prime minister? Why does he not care for his responsibilities and make needed discussions? Being thrown between this matter, decommissioning insurance, between prime minister and finance minister like a hot potato is no longer funny, no more than being thrown away from the end of the election season. Minister of Social Affairs and the Supreme Minister. Financial and economic ministers. [[The president calls.]] It's all become some show we're playing at the front of the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u16	V.E.G. President. This morning was shown in the case of the highest. On the radio, the prime minister said there were more ways than talk to discuss matters at the council. The same has been observed in the case of the day. The senators of Ármannsson, the son of Aargian, and the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son. I believe it is right to inform Mr. President that in this terms I have submitted queries for written answer, unprepared queries, and prepared queries to the highest degree. Prime Minister, secretary of finance, Minister of Education and Department of Social Affairs and Homings on bail and related materials. Since I have not received satisfying answers, last February I decided to make a request for a special discussion. V.E.G. The prime minister has not seen fit to approach it, but at the same time we demand a discussion on this matter, he chooses to go to the Bydlian radio station and discuss the subject. Mr. President. I can't accept that our surveillance role is ignored in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u17	A respectable president. I wanted to say that in the light of a word. 2.m. Smoke. For example, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, reports on the conference meetings that this discussion does not take place. I also have to wonder, " Why in the world? ' The prime minister is not excited to talk about this. If I were asked out in the U.S. or increased transparency, something like that, I'd be excited. I would prefer to represent that discussion or to have as full a share as possible in it rather than to share that debate with a fellow minister who spoke nothing about it in his campaign. I think these events say more than perhaps words in the discussion itself, unfortunately. As for the comment, what is it? 4th, including s.. As a result, there is a simple solution to giving up the language and listening from time to time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u18	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Today, Vigdís Hauksdóttir has much to list, and she is beginning to explain what was accepted at the meetings of the council classes she does not sit in. Of course, it is entirely wrong to say no to a prime minister in some way that was adopted by members of the council. It is essential to inform you here that in January 2014, the prime minister published a report on the insurance policy and when it was requested at a meeting of the council that he present the report orally at the council. He wasn't aware of it then in January, not February, not March, not April, not May. In February, Sigríður Ingadóttir requested a special discussion. He did not see it in February, March, April, May, June. Again, the request was made in September and October. It's almost two years now, since we've tried our affairs at a meeting of the council groups with presidents to get the highest power. Prime Minister to change his mind. It is therefore an absolute relief to make the Allied shame to make this program here. [[The president calls.]] However, it is certainly not surprising that program proposals are being made at the General Assembly. They know little about the history of the council, so they present themselves in the Sermon on the Mount. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u19	President. How many questions, requests for specific discussions or other means have the senators appointed the parish minister for decommissionment of insurance? It's one thing to come here and talk about it at the council, but it's another to forward it formally, as requested in this turn, for a special discussion. It's two different things, I think. Here, the senators of the House of forward are prepared for the duties of the Parliament and require the highest order. Secretary of finance for handling the case. Wouldn't be normal, since the start of the insurance policy is clearly in the highest level. The prime minister that instead of sending his members to do so, did he simply come to a pont, giving up the case to the minister of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u20	A respectable president. No one watching the council is missing that there is an enormous abuse of the members of the council and on the tribunals themselves. A respectable president. The speech continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u21	A respectable president. I think it's amazing to call this adverb or language. A program proposal is presented here for obvious reasons. This is because a request has been made for nine months for special discussions at the highest level. Prime Minister about one of his main campaign cases. There is good reason to make this program, and there is good reason to explain why you support it. It's not a saying or saying anything. And I wish that those who oppose this program would also explain their position. I also find it strange to talk about this program proposal as without precedent. What is without condemnation in this? It's not the highest attitude. Prime Minister to the council? If we're going to investigate what's unprecedented and what's the example in this case, I want this to be investigated. How many prime ministers have similarly tried to avoid sharing in such a special discussion with the council on important matters? How many requests have been offered for special discussions at the highest level. Prime Minister who has not since gone forward? Why are we in this position? Isn't she unprecedented? Doesn't that have to be investigated?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u22	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister asked me to come here to explain my position on this matter. It is part of an unregistered rule of democratic order that the World of Congress uses the European Commission. V.E.G. During the campaign interview, the prime minister said that it was a very simple matter to cancel the insurance policy. He had it written into the government's policy declaration. Since then, almost nothing has taken place unless there has been a report that has been taken longer than that of human insurance. That's why it's perfectly normal for us to ask the highest question. Prime Minister on how this project is being carried out. V.E.G. The prime minister does not have the courage to come here and discuss this with us. I have full sympathy for the senators of the Future Party, who need to see their leader on his knees. But I can make them happy because they will have many morning hours because I believe that such a program is to be provided every day until the highest. The prime minister looks at a body of Congress, bites at himself with courage, and confronts himself in the mirror of his own campaign hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u23	A respectable president. Just before the election, 2013 said the highest. Prime Minister in an interview with the News magazine that it would not be difficult in itself to cancel the insurance policy and that it would be done. This morning it was quoted as being the highest. Prime Minister, he said that in an interview at a radio station and you can find news about this, among other things, on the pages under the title "Sigmundur Davíð feels strong forces that work against bail. " The powers he refers to include political parties, members of the Independence Party, many of them in the council, the labor movement, the class struggles, and all of us know the highest degree. The prime minister is very sensitive to all such things. If any unseen forces, this world or otherwise, delay. To fulfill his campaign promise, Prime Minister, I think it is proper for him to come here and inform us where the situation is. [[The president calls.]] Is she at the council? Apparently not with those who make this suggestion. Is she a member of the Independence Party? The labor movement? [[The president calls.]] Or is it somewhere where we don't share it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u24	Mr. President. There's some of the most pathetic of chloride I've heard from one minister, the highest. Prime Minister, that he cannot come to the council and have a word with members of Congress on big business, political matters, one of the main campaign plans, because things have so settled within the government that the subject is now in some way in the hands of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. The Council is not bound by the task force, and the General is not contained in committees and boxes that cannot be covered. The General Assembly is one of the most important political discussions in the country. This is political. There is a request to have a word with the prime minister who promised to decommission insurance as a politician. She doesn't hold in any of this sorry excuse to the highest degree. Prime Minister. If he's any sensitive to the highest. So the secretary of finance goes over to him and says, "Hey, Bjarni, do you mind if I take this conversation about decommissioning insurance, because it's requested of the government stand? [[The president calls.]] I predict that the highest. Financial and economic ministers say, "No, just do it. " That settles the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u25	A respectable president. I've been watching everyone. Government opposers give 20 speeches, and I am still thinking about it and trying to figure out what this is all about. It's like a whisk. paritaprevir and the finest government opponent, Helgi Hjörvar, says, this is a disgrace to the General. There's obviously a lot under it, so you use theirs. It's going to miss you. Government opposers say that the start of the insurance policy is at the highest level. Prime Minister, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, the highest insurance policy in 1979. The prime minister of four years of age, if I count it right. That is hardly the reason. Here we go. A senator ups and says that he has not received satisfying answers, so this unprecedented way has gone. A respectable president. I'd like to draw attention to the discussion at the last council. It was not as if we were then in a position of government with satisfying answers. That's a long road away. But I'm not going to give a long talk about it. A respectable president. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I suggest what. The government's opposition stopped this filancy and uses other teams to ask the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u26	A respectable president. How much longer does it take? Minister to test our patience. Senators? I'm just asking. And to raise that question slightly different because of reason. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir said this was a misuse of the program: Is this abuse of the program or abuse at the highest level of power? Minister? Just how much longer do we have to wait on good things for this matter to become available? How much longer do we need to pray beautifully? Our patience has disappeared. I support these changes because the patience of the council has been tested for so long, and it is time for us to talk to the highest level of conversation. Prime Minister on this matter without having a problem that is more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u27	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir At the top of the court, Hjörvar's Hjörvar traced the tragedy involved, repeated attempts to get a physical discussion at the highest level. Prime Minister on reimbursement insurance, which goes back two years. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, explained how he had been exposed to indifference in a matter he wanted to discuss with the highest court. Prime Minister. I fully understand the feelings of the senators and their desire to divorce their ministers. But I'd like to remind the council members who are about to vote for their basic duty that they will defend the council's right to get answers. If they're going to protect the highest. At the same time, the prime minister in this matter islittles others at the highest level. legislators who have met all the requests for the administration of the government objectively, without delay and without compromise for the entire terms of this election. I am grateful for that reaction, and I pray. Councilmen to realize that this reaction should be self - determination in a democracy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u28	V.E.G. President. A discussion of this program has shown that this is very special. Yes, this is undoubtedly very special, and it is also very special. The prime minister did not want to discuss the plans for this matter with the body of Congress and answer questions. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Ingadóttir and this has been denied for nine months. This proposal, in part, comes from the discussion of some of the candidates of the Agency this week who have become increasingly involved in decommissioning insurance and with regard to the government's programme for bringing a bill on it. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir spoke here a few days ago about this matter and, among other things, that the forwarding party had won its great election on this promise. We're following up on government plans, and of course, it's normal at the height. Prime Minister will explain. Congress members of the forward party are now fully involved in teaching the highest order. Secretary of the budget. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, he's not in the audience, but I'd like to ask if it's true that his case is stranded. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u29	A respectable president. I was wondering what kind of circus is going on here. I wondered if representatives of the minorities here at the council feel that this adds to the respect of the General Assembly that many have cared about so much. I think it is right to say that the prime minister who is sitting today is the prime minister who has come most often to the Senate Hall to answer the inquiry and discussions of members of the council since the turn of the century. I think it's also true that this is also a debate over the Developmental Institute today and was started yesterday, and took an extraordinary long time for us, the case was ready for us to finish out of the council, but prevent it from being of minorities - yet again, it is time to create all sorts of strange language and strange games to try to prevent it being cleared up here by natural and democratic means at the council. [[The president calls.]] I wondered if the council is on the right track. [[The president calls.]] I will, of course, say no to this program proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u30	V.E.G. President. I will endeavor to make this program proposal because considering the case of the management body today, the goal is not to discuss the insurance policy. [[For example: Well?]] The government's office wants to discuss the campaign code of the Agency, so it should be proposed. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, if cutbacks are to be taken materially, the proposal should be directed to the financial and economic minister who is working on proposals and implementations of his Ministry, depending on the staff's proposals, on the other hand. paritaprevir In a report published by the prime minister, Páll Árnason gave an annual report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u31	President. I'd like to ask for favor, if that's all right. paritaprevir Guðlarge Þór misunderstood me, but, of course, I was referring to the matter of violating insurance, which comes from the highest level of its origin. Prime Minister and his company. That would be very public information for this discussion and the vote, if the highest rate, to be paid. The prime minister would simply pray for the word and explain to the United States whether the matter is at his home or at the highest level. Secretary of finance, so I may be able to stay here only until he asks for the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u32	It is a new form of silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u33	He doesn't even want to say anything. It would be very public for this discussion if this message came from the highest level. Prime Minister, who evidently does not even want to comment on the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u34	V.E.G. President. We here discuss the vote on this program. It is simply this way regarding requests for special discussions with the minister that if a minister agrees with them, they are taken here at the council Hall. It's time to go to the highest. Minister has led this to the highest level. Secretary of finance. I hope that the person who asks for the discussion will direct the request to the secretary of finance. If I remember correctly, I asked why. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, if the secretary of finance would accept such a discussion. I can assure the U.S. Congress that, so far as we are concerned, the secretary of finance will take the special discussions that have been directed, and he has been very diligent in coming here to the council. I don't think that anyone could object that Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party and Secretary of finance, did a good job for the council, and I would like to state that I trusted no one better to present a major debate in the council and to present it to a country and a nation what is best for us than the chairman of the Independence Party. This is because we have fellow feeling. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm with the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u35	A respectable president. Clearly, there is a national meeting with the Independence Party. How satisfying it is to see that the conflict has begun to warm up! Of course, it is true. paritaprevir This is the case with Björn the son of Gunnarsson. Why is it taking the highest. Would not the prime minister comment on this vote? Most misunderstandings and wolves can be eliminated by talking to one another. Is it not the best way to explain exactly where the matter is? Why is it so hard? I'm not gonna talk about it at the highest. The prime minister who is likely the prime minister in the history of Iceland, which is usually misunderstood, which most often turned aside, has had to appear in the press and explain exactly what he meant and how his comments have been turned out, which have only been correctly understood in a talk he gave in New York sometime about climate change. There he didn't get the wrong impression. [[The president calls.]] Why is it coming to the top? Not only does the prime minister up here explain what is being done in this direction? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's he doing about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u36	Mr. President. It's right next to the highest. Agricultural and agricultural minister does not increase the respect of Generalis that the republic's prime minister ignores the Allied Council. This, of course, has become a question of what to be offered. Ministers are required to answer for their work at the General Assembly. That is what the Constitution is about. That is what IV is about. A chapter of the Conventional Code and of which is a state council tradition. And in general, a prime minister has been considered to be able to answer for whatever one under his government is hearing and does not need permission from professionals to whom. He is or is supposed to be the point of the government and foreman. What a top one. The prime minister we now have is not. He ignores the Allied Council, has no interest in anything but housing, old houses, and loading, and the only time a fire comes into the eye at the highest. The prime minister is already found in some area of old loads. This has become a very distressing experience. I encourage members of Congress who are messing around with the fact that there is a play here to read the Constitution, read the Constitution, and understand the kind of humiliation it is for the Council to live with this kind of prime minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u37	Mr. President. It was sad to follow a talk at the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers before that. He usually follows the way of truth in whatever he says and has earned the respect of the council and my love for it, but in this mission he has been using every step of the truth. Now I believe that no one in this hall, except possibly in this room, would think that men would try some sort of claws to prevent the progress of the subject later on today's program. I completely refuse that this case has something to do with it. I'd like to draw attention to the discerning top. A minister should certainly be against us, for the matter would have been in hand, asking for a double discussion when discussing it. We didn't. I promise the others I will. Minister, I will use the same determination to bring him to his senses in matters such as myself and the government side of this matter in an effort to teach the highest order. Prime Ministers are well - mannered and teach him how to live up to his duties in the assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u38	V.E.G. President. There may seem to be some members of the government who are surprised that we want to talk to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister on government policy regarding the removal of bail. We in the smaller part of the General Assembly would like to discuss this big interest problem for the people of the country as well as for a major economic issue on the government policy sheet at the highest level. Prime Minister. The point is thus growing, it is absurd that he has not agreed to attend this discussion as a subject. paritaprevir In his case, Hjövar's Hjörvar was reviewing the report on the elimination of insurance that he did not want to discuss at the council with us and now a special discussion of the big campaign promise. It is a material debate over big business and big economic issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u39	Mr. President. The political part is amazed at this event and calls it a number of names, but people might be free of this sort of event if it's the highest level of events. The prime minister carried out his duties as a member. There is no one who says that there is something attractive to have to do with putting in a program and that it is not that the council is drowning in matters, and there are many politics being forced into the council. Or know what he's doing. Parliamentaries with that? V.E.G. Wherever he is, prime minister should run the dirty word and start showing some authority in his work and answering questions about the largest campaign of the Future on bail. What are they afraid of? What was the most popular prime minister in recent decades, and what was that? Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. [[The president calls.]] I guess she'll live up to it, but it's not the comparison of the others who don't do what they're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u40	Mr. President. They would need to set up a video show to review the last terms for the members of the council who here complain that we submit a program or discuss the activities of the council. I'd like to read from this book of ours here called Congress. In part, it states in the 3rd mg. 49. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The Council's follow-up to counsellors includes public matters. Official issues refer to every subject involved in the role and function of the State and its institutions, as well as its members and other agencies... This is about the insurance policy, the respectable president, and the prime minister is supposed to get the hell out of here in order to answer to this issue. This is followed by 1 mg. Fifty. Article 3 of which it is very important that members of Parliament and Ministers and Prime Ministers discover themselves by permission of presidents: To the matter of Congress, to a special discussion, in response to Congress inquiry... Here it is crystal clear that the prime minister should come and talk to the council about matters that concern the affairs of the State, institutions, and society of all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It's time to end, and now it's time for Prime Ministers to come down here and answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u41	Mr. President. I think a lot about this situation, because here is a vast group of new senators, members of the Parliament, people who are learning at the General and learning politics, and who learn the communication of executives and legislators for the first time and see how to do things. A respectable president. I'm worried about the role of the highest. Prime Minister as an example for these young senators, because of the supreme. Prime Ministers, such as all government ministers, are represented by Generalis and must come to the Generals and discuss matters desired by the council, even the minority. This is understood by every government minister. Each minister of the government meets here and talks to the General when it is requested only one, except one of the Ministers of the Government, who is the taskmaster or is to be named the taskmaster of the government. [[The president calls.]] He won't live up to it, he's a disgrace to the Council, to the shame of the government, to the shame of the forwarding party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u42	A respectable president. I say yes to this program because I don't think it's acceptable to us senators that the prime minister ignores our requests for discussion as important as this. When men promise as much and as much things like to cancel insurance, they are making promises to all the people of the country who are committed to borrowing and finding them every day. Each home is full of trouble. Not only so, but the government has sent them messages to these same homes and has promised that insurance would be taken away that one less route is to be taken, and thus to eliminate insurance, and to get us into a lower budget. Nothing is given or shown about what's to be replaced, not anything. [[The president calls.]] There is a discussion about what we are calling below, the prime minister owes people an answer to how he intends to cancel his insurance policy if not by recording Euro. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u43	V.E.G. President. This program is like a kind of emergency, used when the Allied is treated with disrespect, as we have discussed. V.E.G. A sea chief spoke of the respect of the Generals back here, and I'm also anxious that it should be honored. But the respect of the Generalis is not respected when it comes to the highest degree. For nine months, then, the prime minister refuses to explain the government's policy and the plan for decommissioning insurance, as he promised and won his election in 2013. That's disrespectful. Therefore, a person is forced to support such a suggestion in an effort to get prime minister to explain the policy of the government. I also remind you that members of the Independence Party have often used this method, including some of them. to prevent discussion of the constitution during the last terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u44	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u45	I'll say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u46	A respectable president. It is a wonderful privilege to live in a society with the government that we live in with a built - in hardware, as it were, in his democratic system of things that ensures that the lesser part has the right. There are tools that the less part of the council can handle. Of course, it's the right thing to do. Prime Minister, refusing to attend the council. Of course it's his right. There's no one who will force man to come here and talk to the government if he won't. But it is also our right to call attention to the highest power. The prime minister promised certain things that are not being kept up, at least not to recognize them, and it is our right to discuss them and take them up and propose that they be scheduled. Sure. The only thing that is not natural in this discussion is when authorities come here and say, "Stop talking. " [[The president calls.]] Stop talking about this. That's abnormal. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u47	V.E.G. President. I'm saying yes, because it's a big interest issue for the public, interests and elections at the highest level. Prime Minister and the policy of his government. In the smaller parts, we don't accept at the top. The prime minister naturally ignores our request to discuss as large a matter as the insurance policy in a special discussion. We've had to suffer because he completely ignores our will for a month and now year after year. Mr. President. This is intolerable, and I warn the council members here at the council Hall who refuse this program proposal that they are participating in the weakening of the council's role with the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u48	Mr. President. I say yes to this program because the Council is not expected to tolerate the prime minister of this conduct. It's right next to the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers, of course, do not increase the respect of the Generals that Prime Minister ignores it, i.e. if it's offered by the General. Therefore, I call attention to members of Congress who reject this program proposal that they are taking sides in the behaviour of the prime minister. They are taking their stand because a prime minister in a country based on Congress and Prime Minister who leads a conniving government ignores his obligation to answer for his work at the General Assembly. They're exaggerating Congress. They are taking a stand for conduct contrary to the traditions and laws and constitution of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u49	Iresave?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u50	Prime Minister must answer for his work at the council. That's why I'm sorry if you're going to back up Prime Minister on this. [[The president calls.]] Little has now become the ambition. So where are men? Is there independence from members of Congress who have nothing to do with anything but their convictions or are they something else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u51	A respectable president. I say yes to this proposal, which is a form of emergency for the council to try to call all members of the council to the table to make a decision on the program. This is a suggestion that has been in the discussion of the meeting classes for months. For months, members of Parliament have been pressing for this discussion to be held in the petition of the Continental Council. This discussion is important. I want to pray to the highest. A president and, actually, the highest, too. Secretary of the economy, if any nice minister would want to give it back to him, to have a word at the highest level. Prime Minister and only review his role in the council because everyone else seems to understand it, i.e. All the other ministers of the council and the president of the council seem to understand that the prime minister is supposed to come and speak to the General if the Council would like that. [[The president calls.]] If he does not, he is mistaken.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u52	A respectable president. Here we witness a new misuse of the convention program. The roll call is now being abused, because here is a roll call for a new program adjustment proposal. To date, it has been established that a roll call is applied only in very controversial cases, even to those who take control of other people over the nation's affairs. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] I hear you, chief. President, at what? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has a problem with these words so I will continue with my speech, as with the application to the EU and Icesave treaties. [[Up front.]] It's pretty lame to see that government situation and the massive abuse that takes place on all members of the council and thereby the General Assembly of Iceland. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u53	A respectable president. The principle of democracy is that political parties submit their policies, are elected by the election, and then have to answer for it. V.E.G. As we have seen, the prime minister has been avoiding in an orderly way for two years to give an answer to a promise he made for his last election, a promise that would tear him into his chair. And now the members of the Independence Party are guarding him and keeping him from giving an answer to the nation for the advancement of this great campaign themselves determined not to pay for it. Nothing more demonstrates the raw nature of this government, and nothing better shows that independence is not sacred when it comes to achieving power and keeping power for oneself and your friends. Then there's no such thing as honor or pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u54	A respectable president. With all these talks. When it was declared that this proposal dishonored the general council, I felt that there was one thing I could do. They spoke out of character. ... anti-Resister. I'm not interested in being a part of it. Of course, I'm saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u55	A respectable president. What I find facing in this situation is simply that a fence path, ignoring the natural requests, irresponsibility, not saying anything, does not come up with any particular discussion if you ask for it for obvious reasons, that attitude will always lead to waste of our time and comforts. I'd like to let me pray. paritaprevir Guðlaug told Þór Þórðarson because he laughs at this, as he imagined another scene. What if it's the highest? When asked for the discussion, would the prime minister have been present? She would have taken half an hour, gone out here, and no doubt been very inexplicable and the highest. The prime minister could have explained his view of these matters, and we would not be standing here and reviewing it every nine months since that request was submitted. Other government ministers have concluded that of course they pay for everyone, so that we are not wasting people's time, becoming familiar with a request for special discussions, and, of course, at the highest level. Prime Minister to do the same. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u56	A respectable president. Of course I'm saying yes. Of course. If we had taken this discussion, we would have finished it until we finish this discussion about the vote. I'm sure this is the subject. Also, I must mention that listening to what is bad is very tired. In fact, when it comes to talking more about things according to the Senate, the members of the board constantly suggest that they stop talking, they stop talking about things, they stop talking about things. This discussion has taken longer, much longer, than if the discussion had been material. And again I wonder that the highest. The prime minister is not willing to discuss this. I'd be really excited to talk about it if I was him. This is a ridiculous, respectable president. Of course I'll say yes. Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u57	A respectable president. I say yes, because you should be consistent and live up to what you want to do to others. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson demanded the prime minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to discuss a special debt matter in the household. Of course, then, a prime minister could have stepped aside and said that the matter was in the field of another minister, a social minister or economic minister, but, of course, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir did not. She respected the senator, came to the council, treated him with respect, and did not flee because this was the case with prime minister. That is how the nation wants prime minister to be. It can be seen that the prime minister does not want to discuss the broken promise of breaking out insurance, but it is never possible to accept that promise. That's why I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u58	A respectable president. I do not necessarily agree with the last speaker that a former prime minister is an example of how to direct the country. But I would like to point out, because, according to Article 60, this has been referred to. While it may be possible to ask for special discussions, according to the custom, the petition must be directed to the minister to whom the seminar is discussed. That is just as true for us in the greater part as for members of the government. I could ask for a discussion at the highest. The Minister of State on Foreign Affairs, it's totally the same as what I hear now the debate is about, but I would be denied because the jury is, of course, under the secretary of state. That's why there's no use hitting your head at the stone and saying it's gonna be here day after day to ask for it. This is merely an indication of what happened. paritaprevir A Birgir man's Ármannsson mentioned so fine earlier, it's nothing but a play. They're making some position, and it's part of a filibuster, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] So, of course, I say no to this program proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u59	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u60	A respectable president. Now we've been told that the government feels that it is approaching a decision in terms of the release of broken-ups of the fallen banks. We have seen that the minister of finance has appeared and, in effect, reported the results publicly, but we are in the peculiar position that everything is unknown to the reasons for these decisions. It is unclear whether this is sufficient for the public to dislodge them, and it is unclear whether the conditions of stability are, in effect, as valid stability, as a stable tax, whether all of this rhymes together. It has also been strange to observe events during the past few days where representatives of the government have been pursuing a representative of foreign demands to help them avoid paying stable taxes, which all agree to pass legal conditions and to remember that, unchanged, turning hundreds of billions more into the state funds and making it absolutely certain that stable conditions would be met. You wonder, " Why do I have such favors on the part of the government? ' Will prime minister guarantee that the stability spending will be equally valid because a stable tax is paid? And will the evaluations of the stability initiatives be made public and administrative and independent experts give the opportunity to fully review these analyses before the government makes decisions on leaving the foreign requirements permanently and permanently out of the country, without a doubt? [[The president calls.]] Will the criteria be clear before the government releases the demands?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u61	A respectable president. The government has now held the council as a hostage for another hour in what was like an end-of-stage advocate requiring the answer to questions about insurance. Meanwhile, the questions of members of Congress could not be answered. Well, already it's a good time. paritaprevir At last, Páll Árnason has the opportunity to ask questions, but he is not interested in asking about insurance; instead, he asks questions that he had asked about before, and he received answers that he had missed when the same question, from other members of the congregation, including why. The United States vice president was answered. [[This is a request from last...]] A respectable president. So I'll reiterate it one more time, for whatever. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason seems to be coming from mountains whenever it comes to the reduction of seawaters, emissions of broken - up banks: There is no reason to give any discount on the stable tax, it occurred when, when, as the government's plans for emissions were announced, there were two effective means of design, both ways designed to achieve the same objective, both ways would be designed to solve such a major economic problem. That would be different, but one of the advantages of the stabilising process would be that it adapted to the extent of the problem, no matter how large it proved to be, even if it proved to be larger than the tax sensitivity, it would adjust to the extent of the problem. Since then, it is clear and has been made from the beginning that the Navy and finance minister will not accept the stability conditions, including the stability of the budget, unless they fulfill what was intended for them. This has occurred since the introduction of the case, a respectable president, and it is absurd. A senator coming here every once in a while, pretending he's coming from a mountain on all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u62	A respectable president. That was noteworthy. The prime minister did not answer my question, whether the criteria will be made public, and we will be given the opportunity to look into them before the government decides to let foreign claimors out of the country. It is a complete operation, then they have escaped, and it is not possible to expect them anymore. The track's starting to scare. The premise is so vague. Consider, for example, this highly exalted takeover on Iceland Bank that has been introduced here this week. They could not sell him abroad, so they are dying to get rid of him. The Icelandic state cannot sell it to foreign buyers in particular, so it needs to be sold here within the country. Is that perhaps the reason for the joy of the government with the suggestion that they already have buyers in mind? It is not clear at all that these payments for the demands, that they should be freed from this inheritance, were necessarily in the nation's possession. [[The president calls.]] So I reiterate the question to the highest level. Prime Minister: Will the criteria be public, and will everyone be able to study them before the government releases the foreign demands?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u63	A respectable president. What's wrong with you? A senator in this matter is natural, at best, laughs. He repeatedly exposes himself to the fact that he doesn't understand what this is all about, does not understand the basic facts of the matter, and then goes on to say that the Bank of Iceland's claimors, must be dying to get rid of the property, a bank with their own money of 185 billion. Hv. A senator argues that he himself was in a government that not only delivered this bank to the claimors and more banks but also planned to put several hundred billion more on taxpayers to run for failure banks. He comes here and shames everything, claiming that it's only a delight that the state will take away the bank that has its own money of 185 billion. As for the reasons, they exist, a respectable president, they will be repeated and made even better aware of them, but that is not the government - this is still one of the things that a respectable senator seems not to understand - that lets it through. It's a court of law. [[The president calls.]] This will end up in court to determine whether or not contracts should be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u64	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to provide stability donations. A meeting in the Conference Committee on Release Control was now held here on Tuesday and considered only the situation regarding the stability of one of the broken - up camps. It lies in the way, and there's nothing unusual about it, as I thought the highest. The prime minister almost indicate earlier, that the way the government introduced earlyums was primarily about the stable tax. We're looking at corneal introductions at the highest level. A minister saw a number of corneas on the stable tax, and the stability proposals were almost presented as a secondary route. Then we discussed these routes here at the council, both routes agreed. However, it matters, and on it the representatives of the smaller part of the case pointed to that, while taxation is a transparent means, quite documented, what is involved, the other way is the way, so I have not heard any objections, much more implacable. It is much more complex to pass information on what it means, since it is a matter of contracting with a scrap shop. The stable tax, as we shall remember, was presented as 850 billion, which, in view of recovery, was to be around 690 billion. At least we know the size of the problem, the deltas, the broiled, that's about 1,200 billion bucks. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he considers the proposals that have been proposed, and the information is available, and we will find further information, are close to correcting that problem so that the public can get out of the oceans, not just the worn - outs. Second, I ask about the transparency, if it doesn't stand to print the calculation of the difference in these pathways. Because while they are different, it is very important that we here at the council as well as all the people in the country get a clear view of this because it is a very big interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u65	Mr. President. It is not a detailed description of the presentation that we have presented the stable tax as one of the main sources in this matter. Those who remember the sequence of events from the introduction no doubt recall that the immediate arrival of all the worn - out camps and claimed that they wanted to take a stabilisation course, i.e. This was declared by key demandsmen on the behalf of individual broilers. From that time on, it has been clear to me that we have been so much more assuming that this way would be the way that the worn - out crew would eventually come with an exception request, and that they would recognize how to meet the conditions of stability, which are said to be stable, extended loans, because there are a great number of possessions in the land's foreign currency, and then reimbursed on foreign loans. I'm sure you're right. A senator said that it is a bit complicated to review each aspect of stability. But the point is, we're solving an underlying problem. We are making sure that there are fixed contracts and distributions of farms to the demands without seeing any problems between us Icelanders as a result of the loss of the Icelandic crown's gangs. It will be considered exactly how every part of this structure will be set to zero in such a contract structure at the time of the presentation of the next few days in this subject. Now I'm waiting for a letter from the Secret Bank. I understand that everyone has turned in their ideas to the Secret Bank. I expect to get, even today or at the latest tomorrow, a letter of consultation from the Secret Bank, which I will eventually bring here for the council. [[The president calls.]] Similarly, there is a presentation. This will be done very accurately as to how we are dealing with the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u66	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The reason I think it's important that we discuss this at the council is because there's an enormous amount of money. A late bank manager himself said there's only one bullet in the gun. We all want to make sure -- everyone in here is in, not just the highest. Government thinks all party members - that there is enough powder when it is fired. Why do we want to do so? Yeah, because we're thinking about the public interest and we're thinking that the public will also get out of the water. V.E.G. To this end, a minister said that he was expecting to receive the Hall Bank's assessment of donations so that I do not expect him to answer me whether he thinks the donations will meet these requirements. I want to reiterate what I told you earlier that we need to be properly introduced to this matter before the council and the nation because there is great interest in it. This has to be as transparent as possible, so we can all understand exactly what is behind and be sure that this is a decision for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u67	Mr. President. I want it to be clear in this discussion that we have a meeting committee where we're sitting together with the Secret Bank and with the Prime Ministry members, such a management committee for the release of funds. Of course, I've been in a conversation with our partners and representatives in the staff. They have declared that according to the forward suggestions, they will support it for their own interests, recommend that the matter be settled. Since I have received a description of how they can predict the solution to the problem, we are preparing for a presentation. I call attention to the fact that when property is distributed from the reef farms, a part of the property, for example, goes to the Secret Bank's holding society. We don't have to worry about it, it just goes right into the Federal Bank, and the ESI is a huge demandsant. I also refer to the taxes we are taking, including this year. And I call attention to the fact that by the stability process, all worn - out materials fall from all potential requirements to recover those taxes. [[The president calls.]] It's not the result if you go on the tax route, i.e. Applying the stable tax, such judicial cases could remain open. [[The president calls.]] But that can be less than 70 billion. The release of bonds, the delivery of property, all these individual teams combined, will solve the problem in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u68	A respectable president. I'm going to go to all other psalms. There's been a bit of a discussion, and it often rises up here in the country, about a penalty frame on drugs. In the world, in the world, there's a lot of fermentation in this suit. For example, at the United Nations, policies that are involved in the delinquency of drugs are being developed. The nations are legalizing cannabis, and last we received reports of the election in Canada, where Justin Trudeau and the liberal party have a policy of legalizing cannabis there. Five states in the United States have legalized cannabis, which seems to be a trend this way. I think it's important to discuss this in Iceland. We had a fine meeting at the General and Education Committee at the beginning of the week, where these matters occurred. I've been thinking about this for many years, like probably many others, what's best, and I think it's very important to discuss this case because strong testimony is to surface by research on public policy to go to drugs, which is about punishment and imprisonment, and to have these matters in the judiciary system, is not working, it's even ruining people's lives. And when political policies are destroying people's lives, you need to think about it, change the course and listen. When countries such as Canada decide to legalize cannabis and believe that it is a better way to cope with the use of cannabis to keep it on the surface and within a law frame, I believe it would be wise to legalize cannabis. I have come to believe that we need to take steps in the crime of other drugs to make drugs a health problem and to cope with humanitarian drugs, with treatment options. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of state on her view of these matters. Is she a passer of cannabis' law? Is it accompanied by a drug crime and a change in policy? It's not a simple question, but I'll go for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u69	V.E.G. President. I think it's rather a big question on Thursday with this question coming. Senator. I can't stand here today and describe my position on the question as the senator presents it. However, I have been closely observing the discussion that has recently taken place on this case. I noticed this discussion that was on the United Nations scene, and of course we need to pay attention to the world around us to see if the ways we choose are working and what is a problem. I think there are a number of reasons why cannabis consumption is as good as health and social problems. We also need to understand, when deciding whether or not things are to be punished, which groups are underneath, whether only those who are involved in drugs that some would view as alcohol or whether more is involved in the punishment for those things, then they are also dealing with the possibility that the person may be selling drugs, etc. So I think it's a complicated opinion, which is probably for us. We're having a bit of a problem with shopping bill, but this discussion is much more extensive and heavier, requiring a much deeper discussion than I can answer those questions for a brief period of inquiry. I think we're supposed to go over these things thoroughly and keep an eye on what's going on in neighboring countries, whether the punishments that are in this category yield the desired results or whether they actually add to the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u70	A respectable president. I have a clear understanding of the Supreme Court. I don't have a clear answer to such big questions, but I want to record it here, and I think that these matters need to be discussed with real and depth. There is very strong evidence, and studies show that punishment in drug abuse makes matters worse. They increase drug prices on the black market and make it worse, their consumption worse. In lands where criminal abuse has taken place - I don't like it very much, I think it's a sort of vocabulary - death has decreased, even half as it was in Portugal. I'm beginning to experience a growing intolerance to reading in newspapers that the police are wasting a lot of time chasing cannabis, which I feel to be comparable to alcohol. It should simply work to improve this consumption and try to cope with the overdosage of these substances by means of medical and health measures. [[The president calls.]] I think it's the human way and the one that leads to a better world in these things, so I think we need to start looking at these things seriously and review the decisions they are making on all the grounds on the legal and criminal issues of these substances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u71	A respectable president. I think I'll agree with that. A senator said that it is probably for us to discuss these things thoroughly and review the experiences we have, as well as other countries. Actually, I think the highest. A health minister has started such work at the health department, I think there is a report on these matters when it comes to health care. It will be interesting to see her conclusion and to see what it will reveal on this discussion all over the world. There are fundamental questions, fairly large, and requires careful consideration. Then you can have certain princely opinions on how things should be done, and I think I'll wait to describe them my princely opinion of the case today, but they are certainly there, both in this matter and in many others. What routes, and what problem is being solved? That may be the first question. What is the problem, and how are we going to solve it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u72	A respectable president. I just want to talk about the refugee situation at the highest level. Ministers because what has happened recently in the media has been marked by quite a lot of responses such as: The computer says no. At the same time, we are here with certain ideas of how to do this. There has been a measure of solidarity and solidarity with the minister. The minister has here declared that it should not be on the basis of the Order of Dublin to send the trustees back to Greece, Italy, and Hungary, and even Croatia is being examined in that regard. I believe there was considerable agreement here within the house and support for the minister of it. That's why a lot of people have been shocked by the news that there's a lot of people around here telling no in the system, and then you're rolling the cohesion of the system and its policies and views from here, i.e. how it all works out. Thank you very much. A minister for careful reviewing it yesterday in the media, and he knows well that, of course, there are examples such as one of the Syrian family members who have been in the media and who have developed asylum in Greece, and thus they may have other viewpoints. But we also have a humanitarian point. We can do things, we can decide that although a family has come to have a home in Greece, there is only an extraordinary situation. There's a complicated situation, people are here, and then you wonder if we're really going to send people back to the street in Greece. I think we need to take a good discussion about this here. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: If men read such a rigid reading of the Law letter and the rule, what can we do to change it so that the human spirit is in the unnatural circumstances we are looking at above? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. There are many fundamental factors. There's a senator coming in. First, I think it's very important, and I want to reiterate it, that it was made princely decision at the council that the handling of these cases should be on the hands of the people who know the facts, i.e. that we, perhaps on this side of the board, may not discuss unique matters, but they need to have their way with the authorities. In this context, it is good to note that now some 250 people are waiting or in this system called the Secretist System. Then, too, we are talking about eaters, and we may at times be discussing immigrants directly. These are so different, and we're just a little bit in the discussion here, talking about it all at once, but it has to be separated. The cases in the media are just a violation of the issues we are dealing with. Many of them get yes and no, as it goes. It is important that the principle on this matter be clear because it is so important that the equality issues are active to the people, that the same glasses are applied to everyone, that there is no risk of people being treated differently. In fact, there are two types of administration recommendations from the Ministry of Internal Affairs when it comes to certain countries, beginning in 2009 and since 2014. Now we're going back over these factors, like a cool one. A senator mentioned, and I have mentioned himself, in order to establish a better policy over time. Then it has to be stated that there is, of course, a review of the alien legislation established by the previous secretary of state, a transnational committee that is about to complete the work. It's still a bit dark. I think we're most fortunate that as soon as we realize how serious this is, we're trying to put a little bit of faith into it. [[The president calls.]] This is such a short time we have, I think we need to take longer to discuss these difficult matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u74	A respectable president. It's a little twisted, like the highest. Minister mentioned, because I think that most of us would like to see that there is some system that doesn't involve one person beyond another. However, the system must not become so rigid that the humanitarian point is pushed aside because everyone has to fit into a box. That is where the problem lies. We may be able to infiltrate some system in a variety of languages other than these fragile families, especially children. I feel like we have to go through it a little bit and join in with the highest power. Minister, this is a short time for that. But I wanted to start this discussion: How can we put the humanitarian view into the system, where we still try to be equal? It's a complicated thing, at least I don't think it's there. But I think it's important that we do. [[The president calls.]] Until we've developed some humanable system, but I think we're in today, don't we need to look at specific matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u75	V.E.G. President. I think it's very important that we discuss this well at the council, especially in the world situation today because of refugees. In many ways, we have a very unusual situation. We are talking about a certain nation if we take the Syrians and, in fact, the neighboring countries that are in a very unusual position. We may also need a little to figure out what this security system is for. They are designed to receive people who are in dire need; therefore, a little thought needs to be made about what groups they are. I think it's very good for us to take such a talk at the council. For Greece applications are not reimbursed as they are still included in the trust process. Once they're out of it, there's another law. Of course, one may ask, " Is that how it should be, but so it is? ' It is very difficult to break out without making some dramatic changes. [[The president calls.]] Such discussions need to be made deeply before making such decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u76	Mr. President. I find myself in places similar to the last member of Parliament who was talking to the highest level. Minister of state. These are, as it turned out, very large, difficult and difficult to deal with. V.E.G. On October 5, the minister of the state said that those seeking refuge or refugees would not be sent to Italy, Greece, and Hungary. She may have pulled that claim back when she said, by permission of a president: It has been so, however, that when it comes to young men, they have, at least in the long run, been reassigned to Italy. Since then, we have seen the decision made by the chairman of the National Institute of Iceland regarding the specific issues mentioned in the media regarding the Albanian and Syriac families that there will be no reviews and that there is no need for legal action made by the General Assembly. I'm asking if there's anything we can do to change that. In response to the Ministry and the Ministry to the Hour, which appeared yesterday, it is said that information and information will be collected that will be proposed as a basis for the decision to re-examine refugees and to apply the Code of Dublin. It's worth asking. Minister: Is it safe to say that we do not send inmates to Greece, Italy, and Hungary? And what's the situation in this job, i.e. to shape a re-importation policy for the reimbursement of the trustees to these countries based on the World Health Organization? Will they send or will they not? What is the minister's political policy? And most important, how is this being carried out during the ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u77	A respectable president. This is the case. A senator mentions - and doesn't stand the subject for me to review them here, as I said in my previous answer - is not yet cleared in a administrative level. The decision - making committee was set up in foreign affairs, which has permanent administrative authority and I don't know that it has begun to deal with this particular matter. I don't know if they've been charged or not, although it was, and then we'll have to wait for the conclusion to come and counsel from the decision - making committee on many matters of opinion. A senator mentions. Of course, both Foreign Institutes and a ruling committee interpret the legislation. There is a fundamental prince in it, but there is always a need to look to the decisions and see what precedents they can have on other matters, etc. That's what I'm talking about. A senator also asks about it, so a minister can issue jurisdiction. They've been published twice. One, 2009, against Greece. Then it was concluded that people should not be sent back to Greece for this refuge treatment. This has been done in that way. However, with Italy in 2014, main policies are not reassigned to sensitive positions, but they can be reviewed on individual matters and determine whether or not the conditions are met. That's what the Supreme Court also confirmed during the day that a court case was okay, so it's all under the rules. Since then, I have decided to go back to all these aspects of the country by having a balanced view of the situation. It was in the light that I put it this way in October, but that job isn't over. It's part of all this dissociation so that we can prepare our decisions and our long - term views on evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u78	A respectable president. It is important to know how to handle matters while the formal things are not available. It is sad that it is people that society has actually received, they have already done so. The children had gone to school after a few years of dating, and they had gone a little bit ahead of time to get them to school. Now they are pulled out of a safe environment and sent back. I agree with what was said here about the humanitarian nature, they need to be over and around. But you feel that when society in itself has been received, it's the form, as it has just happened, which has been stopping it. V.E.G. Only the term "discovery " came to the attention of a minister: greeting, refugees, fugitives. I think she'll get in a lot of trouble. Is it true that rural society has refused to accept some of the people who agree with these terms? Is it true that they did not have a refuge because they did not have capitalists?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u79	A respectable president. Our main challenge in the media today is the rise of the verbal treatment. It's hard for people in this situation to know how much longer this system of ours has taken because, often during that period of waiting, people have begun to get to know the community that makes it all much worse. So we've been trying to get this all right. These are natural practitioners that need to be okay. About a question why. A member of the local community is now no secret, considering our part of this task as contemporaneouss, that we have had a lot of success in reaching contracts with rural society from this group. I've found that more interesting to be on the sayin' team, and I've been really upset because this is where we're talking about people who have come to Iceland. So I would have wanted to encourage the local communities to put their arms around this party better with us. This is not something we do alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u80	V.E.G. President. For up to two years, remuneration at tourist locations and the inequities of its payoffs have been considered. With exceptions, we have witnessed the silence of the government's approval of obvious law violations, and this is particularly so. A travel minister might draw attention, but by her conduct, she seems to want to create the traditional right to possess natural bulbs and use them for the benefit of private citizens. This is similar to what has happened in the case of the sea - fishing industry. In 1st. According to one estimate, fishing is the country's common property. Then we received a greeting system that opened the purchase and sale of a quota, of our long-term quotas. It's starting to put food on the table, and then when this system was a problem, there were lawyers, including those from the University of Iceland, who claimed that there was no way of changing the system because there was a legal right to that end. We remember that this happened in 2013. Many things have happened in this area since the first time these matters were discussed. The number of tourists in Iceland has grown dramatically, and they have made enormous money into the Icelandic population, so they run at hundreds of billions of dollars. These funds have, in part, contributed to the subsidies of government funds through various tax collections and into rural funds. There are funds, necessary funds, to attack a number of structural functions and to protect the environment in view of this massive waste. We see this now, after the natural pass got the ride he got, and then it seems that the cost of stay and return to the country has not been reached in the eyes of the government, that men are looking for ways to go around the back door. This is happening on the United States Hall, where people are planning to sell access to the National Park. They call it a parking ticket. But now that we're going to Þingvall in the 21st century, we didn't come there on foot and not riding, it was in the second century, we got our cars, and now we're paying to come there - on our own, with our families and guests. It is also natural currency, and it would be interesting to hear the travel minister's opinion on this. It's not just public people who wanted to collect money, it's the privates. That's the person I'm primarily pointing at. We know what happened with Geysi, a miner, and Kerina. There they started charging, and there's still a bill in the Kern under the flamming flag. They've built a shed where depositors have placed themselves and collect money, have money from tourists without permission. Is this my private look? No, it's not my private opinion. The EEA ruled in June 2014 that this was illegal. After the decision was published, I quote here. It says on the visi.is, by permission of the president: The Agency's landowners' union at Ker and other regions on a natural mine will not meet laws. The Agency does not consider anything in the law to be allowed to hire other tourist areas, although they are not in non-authorized areas or in a natural mine. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir asked him the highest. Environment Minister on whether this will last. The Environment Minister's answer, to the current government, is definitively, by permission of the President: To enable access to natural protection areas without the terms of 32. if met, it is forbidden by the law. Now is my question to the highest. Minister: Don't the Minister dare present this case in court for fear of her cause being under but the cause of the common people will be on top of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u81	A respectable president. This isn't the first time, and I don't think the last time, which I and what. A senator will discuss these matters. That's a very familiar speech he's been giving here today. [[It's a good one.]] She's always as good, I've heard her a couple of times before. There are some statements presented in the case of the senator. First, he began to say that for two years, this matter would have been discussed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A senator was in the government, perhaps even more concerned with the laws given in the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u82	They didn't start chargein', no twists like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u83	There is another claim. A senator brings in, and it's because the cashier, and he named Kerina, is illegal. There, I disagree. A senator because no court has concluded that such pay is illegal. What is more, there has been no legal appeal to whether this release is illegal. The court case that has been judged, both for Geys and for the north, is about to turn to whether the majority of the landowners can make decisions against the lesser part of the landowners, as is the case, and it has been decided, and the Supreme Court has confirmed that such things cannot be done. However, it is not yet being determined whether to collect or not. Hv. A senator refers to the EEA decision as a court order in this. I have to disagree. In fact, this was not a ruling, but it was a letter sent by the EEA to the Environment Minister in June 2014. There the EEA maintains that landowners at Kerinum must not collect fees from tourists in a natural memory file, that the EEA is under the law of such areas, and that there are sources of deposit in such areas by the EEA or by those whom the Agency has made a contract for the management of the region, but that these must be ratified by the contract. At that time, we looked for legal advice on this point. In the legal entity that we received from the European Commission, the conclusion was that by saying that the EEA oversees environmental protection zones, it is not being transferred to the EEA's traditional ownership rights. Among other things, it is stated in the decision that if this were to be the case, there would be no need for certain regulations in the law, e.g. The following is the basis for how to handle this if an agreement cannot be made on terms of peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u84	Did you write the laws of the Land...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u85	National law also believes that such a law - and I want to pray. A Senator Listening to the Discussion - [[Take it up: Easy, Algmund.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u86	Sounds in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u87	to remove property options from the owners would most likely be against a constitution. Then I'm going to find out what I think is most important in this matter, and it's about the legal rights of the Constitution. We need to follow the constitution here in this room no matter what we may feel. It states clearly: The right of possession is at peace. No one should be obliged to give up his property unless the need for the public is greater. Needs a law order and a full price. And the holding right, it is defined as negative, i.e. that the owner may do what he wants to do with his property unless the sources are directly limited by treaties or laws. And it can also be concluded that if property rights of landowners are not limited by contracts, such as in this case or in terms of law, property property is permitted not only to be passed on property but also to forbid property and collected fees from those who want to go and look at it. Then we come to the public court, which is also important, indeed. He is bound and protected by law, but the right of possession is in the constitution. Therefore, the terms of the protection laws on public rights need to be considered in the context of the Constitution's property rights. This is simply not the case with a single person. Who, then, is it to be judged? Is that why? paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson? No. Is it the Environment Agency? No. There are courts. I say again, whether the senator likes it or not, such a matter has not been appealed to. [[Up front.]] While such a matter has not been appealed to, the person standing here may not be able to send or take the police to one or another because industrial and commercial ministers who are also traveling in this country simply do not have the authority to take over the police for something that has not been judged illegal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u88	...in contrast with the public rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u89	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I want to thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for recording this discussion here, it's very important. Sadly, the minister of travel comes back once more easily on this matter. Her natural pass was the worst way, and she was a failure, and that idea died in birth. It is also a bad way to take money directly from the state fund, as is being done now to get the minister out of this mess. My opinion and my comrades in the United States is that we should submit the price of the last government, i.e. the checker's fee, 100 bucks. today. It can be replaced in a better way than that, but that price yields about 300 million. K. This year. Suppose this was to be moved to 500 yards. and would give the range of 1,75,2 billion dollars. That's a lot of money. It is a well - known way around the world, and visitors are not surprised. We can see that in bills when we pay our own hotel bills. We in the United States believe that this price should be divided between the state and the countryside. Suppose, for example, that your rural society gets half. Parts of it would be authorized to use for tourism, and parts of it could either be used as part of a community or as a scholarship to another structure. As we can see, executives have not made extensive flights in this direction because there is no objection. A respectable president. According to one estimate, this year some 1.3 million tourists arrive in Iceland. A recent projection of Arion Bank accounts for some 2 million tourists in 2018. This council, this year, and so has 2016. So I'm the minister of travel to propose a suggestion that can be made with the greatest agreement so that we can start such a payment with an extended allowance in 2017, i.e. report to travel providers in time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u90	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, she's needed. What was revealed in a talk of the highest order. Just before, a minister is the one that has been repeatedly pointed out here in the symposium during this terms, the perfect failure of the government and the Supreme Court. A minister to manage the group of issues entrusted to him in these matters. More than two years later, in one of the biggest tourist industrys in Iceland history, the government has been talking about it for years now, and nothing has yet been done. No plan. Yes, the highest. Minister has reported his own course. It revealed its policies to the people. She did not ask the council to join and mold her. [[Up front.]] It revealed its policies to the people because that is how it works. Minister. That's why there's nothing left. I've submitted here at the council a bill for the change in rural government laws which would include the government's permission of the financing of tourism. It took me about a day, with a little help from the committee field, to write this matter, but it solves what took the highest. Ministers two and a half years not to do so. In a number of places, it is necessary to collect some kind of price for building up. That is all that is justified in doing. But going to charge people for going through their country, for experiencing nature, for traveling on their own roads, and for being in their country, is against everything that is characteristic of our country, and is the hallmark of it beyond many other countries that have been compartmented and covered between mountains and shores. It should be the right of each Iceland and its own country to pass through and experience it. It should not be subject to charge. But when they're on the other side of making money, I suppose some kind of permit happens. Why is this so difficult?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the prime speaker for raising the subject of the need for conversation that happens at tourist stations. I have long felt that a large number of tourists are calling for currency. It is not enough to argue that tourists leave so much money behind themselves in another way that there is no need to charge access to the natural spheres of the country. In the years that follow, much money has to be spent protecting our main tourist attractions as a result of land cover is a major factor in the predictions of a number of tourists. So payment is necessary. I've counted and believed that a mixed path is the most successful. It can be a mixture of coming or leaving expenses to this country, a stay tax, and then reimbursement at a single site, but it would be most likely related to some service that the traveller purchased, for example, if he took advantage of a guide's service or something like that. To say this, I'm not wrong with parking fees or anything like that being collected in the Field. Such fees are widely collected. I don't see anything wrong with it being done on the Capitol like anywhere else. The cost of Gests is charged with countless cities and towns around the world and generally does not seem to be taken care of, for it is usually not the case with the amount of money that matters. Low-cost airlines are certainly concerned about coming or leaving expenses, but if they're low, they won't scare people out of the country. This is the very advantage of the reconstituted way that high sums of money are not being charged ahead of time but are paying for services rendered. I don't like the money paid by Geys and the routine at Ker. That's what damages our image, I think. Let us act wisely when we take the next step and consider the possibility of a mixed way. We are not the first to invent the bike when it comes to the payment of tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u92	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the prime minister for bringing up the subject. I also want to thank the highest. A minister for clear answers and explaining that this is not a simple matter. These are property rights and public rights and where the line stands. It is also a question of when a natural bulb is a natural bulb. There's nothing that says in the law, defines when a natural bulb is a natural, and when it can be charged for it and when it can't be paid. However, in most countries around us and elsewhere, it is normal to be charged into certain areas that need special association and protection. They're charging in national parks where people travel around, e.g. in Nepal and beyond. I remember having had to pay off to Pergalis in Iran and Ani in Turkey, and nothing was taken into my mind. This is usually a service of some kind, whether it is to protect the environment from aggressiveness or to provide basic services, such as maintaining roads and sanitation. And it's all gonna cost you. I don't think it's unnatural that we're getting to the place our neighboring countries are, simply taking the step to charge people who want to go into certain areas because they're especially interesting. This does not mean that they are necessarily more specific than other areas. Although not defined as such in tourist brochures, we can go to many different parts of the world and examine natural spheres. It's very relative, and it's very complicated, far more complex than the public court's supposed to drum everything, I think. It's also a matter of property. It's also a matter of protection, and it's a question of how we find a way between us and whoever it becomes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u93	A respectable president. In response to Katrín's request, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, on these issues at the last council, responded with the highest response. Environment Minister of the following question: Counts Ministers to 32. Is It Designed? No. 44/1999, grants adequate access to natural protection by Article 12. the same laws that stipulate the right of the public to pass through the country? The answer is very clear, as is the case. Jónasson And I'm going to witness, by permission of the president: 1st. 32. Law on Nature Protection, No. 44/1999, says that the Agency or the person hidden from the environment can provide a price for services rendered. [...] take care of, repair, or build up the area, or make sure that they are present. The law clearly states that there may be only two kinds of expenses, i.e. On the one hand, there is a price for services provided and, on the other, the other, for damage to the natural world by tourists or the risk of such damages. Therefore, the Regulation does not allow public remuneration of natural habitats. And continued the minister in his reply, with permission of the president: 32:00. it is also conditioned that the maintainer of the natural environment has made a contract with the EEA on the management of the region... And the answer ends with the highest. Minister for the following: To enable access to natural protection areas without the terms of 32. if met, it is forbidden by the law. That's the answer as Minister of the Supreme Minister. gave the last council the same question; it is forbidden by law. Then she comes up here and says that she disagrees with herself about the inauguralities - she disagrees with herself about the inaugural in this answer here. [[Up front.]] Then I ask, "Why doesn't a minister employ himself as a judge of these matters? ' [[The president calls.]] If there is any doubt in the matter, why does the minister not use it to determine the outcome? What, then, is it primarily to be careful not to do so, not to let it be settled, of public interest, or of special interest? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u94	A respectable president. I thought it was the highest. Minister will answer in no uncertain terms to any question at the highest level of inquiry. Minister was straight. It would be better if we were to discuss these important matters without ever having a noose attack and personal attacks at the highest level. Minister here spoke. We're naturally in big business. This is our largest export branch, our tourism, and if we are going to use it as much as most of us would like to make money to build up wood. Then the next question is, Who should pay for it? Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson is the only senator, and perhaps the why. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason, who has spoken as if it were just coming down from heaven and no one should pay it. Then we'll know where that account lands. He's gonna hit the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u95	You want to charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u96	Hv. paritaprevir Thus, the jealous son of Jónasson wants to tax the people of the land to build tourist attractions. So I disagree with an elder. [[Up front.]] - Now the front quarter's off and we're good at that. When I go to a foreign country that I do now sometimes, even in the EU itself, it's probably normal for you to pay for the services there. Why would it be different here? Why should we tax the public in the country for tourists? Is that fair? I say no. But I agree with what. paritaprevir The Queen of Helgadóttir, the daughter of Guðrún, is that it is only natural for a person to pay for the ministry; as a matter of course. A senator named Pirata was a good shaver. A senator is vast. I hope so. In other lands, members of Parliament who are discussing these matters consider how to do this. Fortunately for the public there, people in general are not taxing the public for the necessary structure and for which tourists are enjoying it; such structure is especially necessary for us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u97	A respectable president. It is true here, that it is very important to get down to the most suitable route and to make clear the provision of the large number of tourists that come here every year and are going to make a significant contribution as well as the most convenient way to share that money out. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller mentioned earlier that we had suggested that the funds go somewhat equal between state and rural society so that their communities can participate in what may be the most important thing, which is access to the natural regions that are the most applied to review, which suggests a good way to redesign the funds. How are we going to collect the funding? The idea of a natural pass fell on rocky soil, perhaps more rocky than many originally thought. I have no doubt that the highest. Minister's only working on it to establish a suitable means of payment. It is very good to be able to discuss these matters carefully. It is very important to get us down on a course of fine peace and to return what we want. There is a possibility of coming and leaving costs and incubating a fair tax to that end. We hope that they will be examined very closely in the near future because there are substantial financial resources that need to enter the seminary and that they will have to come through the vast travellers to the country. It's a hard road to pay. This requires a vast and inaccessible number of remunerations. It is noted that only in the lake area would there have to be 11 medical centers in which there are many places to be applied, etc. Somebody collects, as I mentioned before and why. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson also mentioned a way to reach this goal. paritaprevir Kristján Möller on diffusion, I think it's necessary that the rural communities get a fair share in such revenues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u98	A respectable president. All this ideal period and the first also agreed on the need for structural action in tourist areas that are under high pressure because of the increased number of tourists. Sadly, because of making a great journey to create a system that was not approved, there has been an enormous amount of time during this ideal period. Of course, that was a problem. V.E.G. A minister seemed to have very limited faith in that way himself, for that passage has fallen into a coma. There are other ways to do this. It can be accessed in a way that the New Zealanders have done, since they have simply gone to the companies that are making money use of these places and have set up a specific payment by them. I've suggested that, which includes the ability to provide a stream of essential structure. It's not a way to make money at tourist stations, that's a way to keep them. That's a way to create a service. It is only natural for the companies to make money for the cost, and to make a deal with the locals, in the case that I am putting up with the local communities, who, of course, have knowledge of the arrangement. What has the present government done in these matters? How has it set aside funds for this building? In fact, twice with huge amounts of money money money, so now this has been the case forethought. Three hundred and four hundred and four hundred million. K. put in the budget for building ups, no forethought, so the funding for the projects has not been possible, the structure plans have not been made, and that's why it's still in this llama. It must be said, as it is, that it is this government's fault that it is what it is. That's because they weren't thinking, had no direction, had no idea how they were going to solve these matters when they came to power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u99	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something like that. paritaprevir Guðlarge Þór Þórðarson said here earlier. I completely agree with his statement on this matter. A report prepared for a travel agency, on the request of the prosecuting and innovations department, is well considered on how to pay in many countries around the country. It shows that several countries collect disfellowshipped and/or a return fee for airline passengers more frequently than those involved. The amount and quantity of money may vary from country to country. In most cases, airlines are assigned to collect the price and are charged with buying a plane ticket. On rare occasions, the price to pay is paid at the appropriate airport, which is rapidly decreasing. For example, countries that have come or are exodus are United States, Britain, Germany, Austria, Ireland. Many other countries are also named, and the amount is several thousand dollars. In Denmark and the Netherlands, however, the reimbursement was removed as a result of a difficult competition with very nearby airports in neighboring countries. The report for a travel agency shows that in some countries, natural bulbs are required, especially national parks and other peaceful areas. Selling access to a park does not prevent it from also from being paid for service there, such as access to a toilet or parking lot. If a fee is collected in the currency, it allows information, warnings, and visitors to be given. Another way is to have a match and then a field surveillance check with the natural pass being discussed here. A survey conducted in the early 1990's found that about half of the protected areas in the world were required, and it is relevant to the disposal of the waste. A study in Tasmania, Australia, showed that 86% of the delegates were found to be of good quality if they were right at the park itself, but only 36% were found positive if they fell directly into the Kingdom box. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Whatever the way this case is going to take place, it is clear that we need to take immediate action on this matter and reach a joint decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u100	President. I'd like to quote a document made by a long process a few years ago, where thousands of people came to policy on a new constitution. It contains a section on the nature of Iceland and the environment, allowing the President: Iceland's natural nature is the basis of life in the country. It is to be respected and protected by everyone. At the end of this article: By law, the right of the public to pass through the country for legitimate purposes with respect for nature and the environment. I think it's been very good with a few members of the council here, huh? paritaprevir I'm Karl Garðarsson's son. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur. paritaprevir Passed by Guðrún Helgadóttir, a service is something we probably consider to be paid for. It is obvious if we take examples like those of a whale tunnel who may not remember to be classified as a natural bulb but who were assigned and paid, paid for, and then when it is paid back. It's interesting to me that on the one hand, the state or the public pay for the access of people to these spheres and to the structure and structure, the other is that it can be a business for certain parties. This is a force between the public right and the right of possession. I place a specific question mark on the way property goes, for example, the sunset behind the church or the northern lights, etc. I think it's very obvious that you can charge for a trip or guidance to a mountain where you can see the northern lights better, but if you go there yourself, I don't see that it's smart to charge for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u101	V.E.G. President. The highest injection needle. A minister is our private right and must be our expansion point and then how it is defined in the Republic's constitution. The minister also said that this right can be limited by contracts or by law. This court has been restricted by law, and I've been referring to that law. Chief Minister. A travel minister has made this clear in response to a question from which. paritaprevir For example, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir is not under law. The minister says: This has not been tested in courts, although the EEA and the Supreme Court. A minister has reached this conclusion. But why is this not done? Why isn't there a ban on the Kern? That's because of the highest. Ministers fear that the cause she fights for will remain, but public interest will be on the top. I'm just saying this: I wish Óskar Magnússon, Grímur Sæmundsenur, Ólafur H. Jónsson congratulations on having foot soldiers like the highest power. Minister of his team here at the General Assembly, but to the Icelanders, I would like to say, "Don't let them steal Iceland's natural glory from us. We're supposed to rise up against this theft or try to see him. We have this diadem and the right to enjoy it is ours. [[The president calls.]] Let's never take him away from us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u102	A respectable president. I was hoping that this discussion would be perplexing, and I must commend some of it. Congress members for approaching this subject from what it is, trying to find a common solution, or finding a common understanding. Snoops of shit. A senator, the endless fragrants about everyone unless he's doing somebody's business are completely annoying and unacceptable, if I may finish. [[... Public.]] I give up, a respectable president, that kind of case. I carefully reviewed it and explained why it is not the same understanding, that it is a legal matter. A member of the United States calls for an illegal fee. That's not a legal agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u103	But why don't you put this under trial in court?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u104	Hv. A senator asks me why I don't have a restraining order. Why don't I put this against the courts? I return that question to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u105	Why...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u106	No one's ever gone for a lawsuit, I'm telling you. A senator to do so because there are courts to interpret this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u107	Police...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u108	[[The president calls.]] [[Hv. Senator. Please do not communicate with the speaker. (JY: The secretary is talking to me.)]] ) I want to go. A senator understands exactly what I was saying here. On this point there are legal differences, the findings have not been based on courts, and we do. I'm not doing any such thing or anything. My cause is doing the law here. [[The president calls.]] That's the cause I'm going to follow, and that's the cause I'm going to follow in this. [[The president calls.]] I'm once again waiting for these pimps. Senator. [[Up front.]] - It's as much a ◯low pro to the extent that it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u109	Speak English.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u110	A respectable president. Here we again discuss this evil case that we have discussed before, both in the previous council and, of course, yesterday. The most important thing to note is that the reasons for the case are no stronger than they were last year, and then you have to wonder, " What is the point of putting it into practice? ' The idea of bringing down the European Development Agency as suggested by this bill and bringing the projects into the Ministry of State appears to have come from one place, one place of possibly three. A representative of the Red Cross, Þórir Guðmundsson, proposed three advantages. I have noticed during the discussion that there is something wrong. It seems that the operators or supporters of the bill did not really consider the other benefits or give them a chance. However, in the preliminary report that Þórir Guðmundsson made of the benefits of the future development of Iceland's development partnership, there were three suggestions, of which two of whom he seems to be according to our understanding in the Foreign Affairs Committee still exist. One, however, has not been a serious discussion here. His first suggestion was that the National State Department of State Development and become part of a developing research agency. Another proposal was that the organization would remain largely unchanged, but a specific performance would be between the development of the European Commission and the Ministry, including the Agency taking all two-sided work assignments on progress and monitoring at the State Department of State. Third, the same man proposed, and now at the last had a reason. The National Intelligence Committee discussed the matter in no way detracted or made it worse than the others, that Iceland's Development Cooperative Organization would take on the key roles of a developing research agency that would be submitted but policy would be carried out in the Ministry's International Security Office. There's a suggestion. The members of the greater part and supporters of this bill do not seem to have thought seriously or reasoned on what more. There's enough trouble for them to argue with this proposal, I'm sure. It is also true that today there is a global stir that is moving toward development in the near future. Then you would have thought that it would be much easier to allow the institution that is widely married, to live up to financial laws, and nobody seems to be able to criticize professionally, that nobody would seem interested in criticizing professionally, to continue unconcerned when the world's changes require the least of us to make a move in this series. Similarly, many members of Parliament have rightly pointed out that by laying down the Agency and delivering the projects to the highest level. The Ministry of State is at risk of political interference in the areas where the State Department should be professional. Of course, the whole conference is political. The metal party in itself is fundamentally political. But when it comes to finding out what is best done at one time, identifying the situation in other countries, and finding out what is best done, I think it's a professional question, I don't think everyone who lives in a professional place, not in the hands of politicians, especially at the highest level. Secretary of state. Similarly, one alleged objective of this change is to increase the cost or the like, yet this is not to have any effect on the wealth of the state, as the review shows. The Ministry of Economics did not expect to change the staff or housing situation, at least not immediately. It makes you wonder, of course, exactly what practicality this is to be. It connects the case to what I have to call the mysterious officials. The members of my section show that, and I just read the word, with the permission of a president: It seems that for a long time, the State Department officials'policy - but not the politicians - were putting down the TSSI. A report published on March 4, 2015, by World Light, a magazine on evolution, says that in the last 20 years, at least Six attempts were made by government officials to lower the TSSI and transfer the projects to the Ministry of State. Such suggestions have been offered to most people, if not all, foreign ministers who have been employed in the Ministry since the turn of the century. The response of the ministers has been varied, some have chosen to remain organized, while others have agreed to the views of the officials but have been stopped by the General. One minister, Davíð Oddsson, came to the opposite conclusion and recommended that all international development partners in Iceland move to the TSSI. The minority feels that it is an idea that should be considered to the end rather than the way to put it down. I don't know how to get to the top. The minister of foreign affairs is used to shape his suggestions, but this all sounds like a proposal that has long been there, waiting for someone to lay it out for the highest level. A minister of state who in itself would not necessarily have strong opinions on the matter, but the highest. However, the minister of foreign affairs is in a government that has a unique role in presenting matters designed only to get in the way but not to produce real results. In any case, this matter has not been reasoned with, it is not a bad matter. Speaking of practicality, I cannot help but mention that the Council has previously made a decision on how to conduct financial resources in these matters. Then I must mention a council agreement that was agreed in 2011 that Iceland's contributions to development should eventually include 0.7% of the gross national income. There was a plan on how to achieve this goal. Now it is clear that we are not approaching that goal, but we are drifting away, in the sense that these numbers do not increase in time and the ratio remains 0.21%, has fallen from what was once to be 0.23%. In fact, the proportion was to be in accordance with the proposal at Council 0.25% in 2013 and 0.28% in 2014. This is further indicated by the suggestion that we should try to improve within ten years. Within ten years since 2011, of course, 2021. If we are now in 0.21%, and we don't want to go up to 0.23% even though the economy is taking over and good, how on earth are we going to reach more than 0.7 in 2021? I don't see how to do that unless there's going to be a complete reversal very early in the next term, which, of course, I hope it will happen, but this plan aims from doing this in steps. It's not taking that step now. I'm very sorry. A respectable president. So I think that's why, I have to say, certain hypocrisy to now plan to increase practicality without being able to demonstrate any figures in this sense, without changing the number of employees, and without changing facilities for the Iceland Development Research Institute, i.e. Those who now work there but will be expected to work for the State Department if the bill becomes legal. We are considering practicality now that we cannot even demonstrate, but of course, what are we doing to achieve the goal of spending more money on developing jobs that we should, of course, do? I think that applies to developing cooperation, similar to climate change, everyone seems ready to take the party seriously and do something in it and be very concerned about it and, yes, we all need to get together until it starts to cost something. Then suddenly you get two masks on, and suddenly it doesn't sound good enough. For example, we need to reduce emissions from burning oil, but we still need to get more oil and burn it. A respectable president. If we are to help people, we need to do so, and we need to do something. The will is not all that is needed. It takes more than what it wants. The will must be fulfilled. It's not what you think. Good thinking is essential, but it is not enough on its own. We must stick to what we intend to do. It is no problem for the High General Assembly in 2011 to pamper itself for the magnificent task of reaching the proportion of gross national incomes that flow to develop cooperation to 0.7%, but if not, a respectable president, it is hypocritical. There is a word for this behavior, that word is hypocrisy. The fact that we are now discussing a bill of putting down a developing cohesion agency for reasons that no one seems to know well enough to be able to reason accurately, in the context of our failure to meet our own plans, not the government, but the Congress, is not going, Mr. Honorable President. This isn't working. The first thing we should do is keep a promise before we set up organizations, especially if it is because of a suspected lack of cooperation or any of these mysterious officials. This matter was proposed to the last assembly and came to the committee. There were reviews, as it goes, and all the reviews received were negative except the comments of the European Red Cross that remained neutral, but the bill was certainly critical, but not taken into consideration in itself whether to go according to the overall objective of the bill, which is now like Þórir Guðmundsson, saw the attendance man himself, pointed out that he was, and when I am still working for the Red Cross. He himself recommended that we consider his suggestions specifically in that light, since this is a modest, pernicious organization, and he is a modest, grammatical man. Hence, it is clear that when it comes to this, the reference to the Red Cross was neutral. However, the Red Cross also proposed a strategy for achieving the goals of 0.7% of the nation's income by means of clear, targeted timing. This comes up over and over again, natural, because it's a goal set by the General, but the government doesn't follow. A familiar theme there, unfortunately. Iceland's public relations sent a commission to the last assembly. Of course, it was negative, and it pointed out that diplomatic emphasis could begin to get involved in the extremely bad development teamwork. Similarly, the National Association of Iceland pointed to a general and broad political solidarity in this issue as well as to what we would like to continue. That's why I don't understand why people want to get involved with the politicians more in a professional process that no apparent controversy exists, with an institution that is in the hands of the budget that we all know is not likely when it comes to the institutions of the state, unfortunately. The University of Iceland also gave reviews during the last assembly, of course, and it was negative. Once again, those who now find that there is no clear evidence to support this matter. I'm beginning to think that, a respectable president, to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is either throwing in a matter he has received from his mysterious officials in order to have a case of putting ahead of his head, or he is simply making fun of the council. I sometimes wondered if he would place somewhere and laugh at the General on this matter, especially because there doesn't seem to be a lot of other matters here to talk about. But that's another story. What remains in my opinion, and I also mentioned that I remind you of a talk during the last assembly, that this case has the characteristics of the one you see all too often from the highest level. Government, in particular, I dare declare. Government advance, and there are constant efforts to increase the authority of ministers. In fact, it is a matter of personal matter that we should discuss particularly, as is true of so many other matters when it comes to government and how it is handled. But the counsellors of this government, and especially why. Well, it seems that a team of progress seems quite likely that they are given the most advice, that they have the most of their fingers. This is a very dangerous development. It should be the other way around. Our community, especially after collapse and in the context of technological change, facilitates better information and facilitates participation in public and external institutions in various decision-making processes, should make it easier to transfer power from advisers and other sources, e.g. In here at a council where we're at least on the air, or something else. That in itself does not matter to the question of authority, for as I said during the last assembly, power is repugnant. We should not view authority as a good thing, an independent solution to matters. Power is a necessity. When it stops being necessary, it'll only be evil. There's yet another reason why I'm not a reason to put down the European Development Agency, I'm against this bill because it's a dangerous direction. It can have worse manifestations than this, so much is certain, but it must answer the question, Why increase the authority of Ministers? That's a question we should always ask ourselves, not just in this matter, but in general. I know that soon there will be an upcoming debate over yet another test at the highest level. The prime minister to reach even greater power, which is the subject of another discourse on another occasion and more time, hopefully. After all the discussions that have taken place at this council on this matter, after the reviews have been received, after the discussion. The Foreign Affairs Committee, explained that the bill is not presented to improve efficiency; it simply does not work. There is no indication of this practicality. This is suggested as a way of adapting some alleged problem of cooperation, but it doesn't make sense. It was checked. Committee, it doesn't make sense. The reason for this bill doesn't stand. The bill's heading in the direction is bad. The work of the European Development Agency is important. The metal party is more important now than often before. And he needs peace, the European Development Agency needs peace in order to be able to work as it considers professionally best to work on the media with dignity, so we make the most use of our resources and get our work to the world's best way to peace and democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u111	A respectable president. Toward the end of his talk, the senator said that the arguments presented in this matter were not. Any additional practicality would be achieved. It would have been evident in the work of the State Department. I understand that she served mainly during her last term, a respectable president, and that's quite strange, by itself, that a new head of the foreign government wanted to learn more about this great matter than it seems to be. It seems to me that this case has been passed through the committee this fall. But it's an outcast. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Who does he think is the real reason the minister puts this matter to work so hard? Could it be true that the Ministry is working on these new laws without having been approved and therefore the anger of the community is expected to bring them into effect? Or who thinks the senator is the real reason for all of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u112	A respectable president. I have to admit that I'm having a bit of a problem knowing that exactly, but considering how much it is. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and the highest. The government has taken the council during this terms, so I wondered if there's something serious about this, i.e. half the world's highest. Secretary of state. I have a feeling that the mysterious officials have convinced him that this was something that would've been a long time ago for the other or that reason, for reasons I don't know and I don't know how to trace it, they're nowhere to speak of the greater part. I have a feeling that somehow I have managed to convince the highest. Secretary of State on this and that he sees fit to gain some greater authority there, if not above the legal system, then perhaps over some financial means, which, unfortunately, may be true. If there's funds for the State Department, but not for the European Development Agency, it's the highest. A foreign minister may realize that it is easier to respond to the financial needs of another group by walking on this one, as is often needed in the government business and in the government business. Of course, financial needs are one of the big problems in government business, and if you see an opportunity to have more buttons on the button table to control where the funds are going, it must be very tempting. I'll think of that. I believe that the argument mentioned in the bill's report doesn't stand at all, that there must be other reasons behind, except the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is simply making fun of the council by making such an effort, which I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u113	President. Yes, there might be one explanation, and that may also be the explanation of the strong will of the officials, who seem to be in the State Department, to get the jury fully into the Ministry, he has a natural amount of money, and there is a bit more to which. The amount of money that comes with power will be able to promote the factors they want if they have the money. The Senator will be talking about power. I share his opinion that we most, and especially those who exercise power, have the fear of power. But didn't it show today that ministers in this government have no respect for the council? [[The president calls.]] This is reflected in the way this case is being run, and it is shown, for example, in the highest behavior. Prime Minister to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u114	A respectable president. I cannot help but accept the behavior of the Honourable Minister, especially the Minister of the Future Party, into the discussion when speaking of power. It's completely unsurpassed how to get to the top. Ministers of the forward party have had authority, especially the supreme. Secretary of state has exercised its authority when it comes to the European Union. It is a mystery to me how men could forgive him so quickly. I'm a mystery why the General or the public is taking the offer as high as possible. The minister of foreign affairs did. And, given that kind of control of their authority, I can't say that I trust their ministers with authority. I find that his treatment of the unsuspectable follows. Then I could give a talk about conduct here at the highest level. Recently, we have come to know enough of the same material.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u115	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There's a lot of things I could say about this. I have not felt that any man is here to answer this issue on behalf of the government - yesterday's member of the committee's territory and is not here in the hall today - so I request that the chairman of the Committee be present during this discussion. I think it's a very low-level, respectable president. I would like to continue with the discussion that took place when people considered the reasons for the changes. We do not find the evidence in the evidence, we do not find it in our conversations or hearts, and there has been no rational way to explain why this should happen, what the minister should do. Is he afraid he will lose his chair and need to have some position made abroad or something like that? Could this be part of the explanation? Is this what causes him to push the matter forward quickly and to try to overcome it? This is the only case outside his EEA case that he's trying to reach, and, of course, he has no other agency but this, to put his head under his department. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether it is a physical or a morphological change that occurs will become a reality that the entire field of development at the Ministry and if it considers it to increase the efficiency and transparency needed and has been present around the development community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u116	A respectable president. In itself, I'm not so sure that the highest. Secretary of State would like to put this matter through quickly. I think he'll leave this for us to argue about so that he can do whatever he wants to do except deal with the council. But in addition to efficiency and transparency, that's what I think is completely off-limits. We can assert here and now that the European Development Agency will fulfill its commitments to funding; we can because it is an independent agency. If Iceland's Development Agency was to be submitted and the projects moved into the State Department it would be much more difficult to access these numbers. It would be far more difficult to find out exactly how money is distributed, how it is used, and what the results are. When it comes to a special institution, it is easier to deal with the group of litigators. It is easier to deal with the work of the European Development Agency on the basis of the Agency, but not according to all other issues the State Department is involved. So this is obviously a change to increase opacity in my opinion as well as in efficiency. What men have been criticizing about efficiency, as far as I can see, is some kind of coordination in dealing with foreign parties. When asked, away from what appears in the report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, it was said that this is not to be spoken of. Then a committee with a closed committee asked about this point and found one point to be: How to communicate with Uganda about homosexuality. There's no reason to put an institution down, a respectable president, that's preposterous. Physics or morphological change--it's not completely clear to me, but I think it's a physics change. It's clearly designed to look like a morphization, but it means a change that I think may be a denaturization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u117	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with him about this, and I believe that there may be a considerable variation in the job. Among other things, I worry that money will be used in a way that differs from what is being done today, that I agree with it. You feel that way because there is no other evidence that it can be more desirable than it is today. We have quoted a significant report made by Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir and the current foreign minister chose not to use, but Sigurbjörg has been concerned that the funds will be used for what we would consider to be more than commercial interests than general development cooperation, e.g. In earth's matter and so forth from what I understand, there is no need for it to be done. I'm asking why. A senator whether he thinks so or not that some conflict of interest has occurred in the vinna of Thorris Guðmundsson, who we know is at the Red Cross of Iceland, with 300 million on a fixed project each year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u118	Senators are kindly asked to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u119	A respectable president. This is not often spoken of in this case, but, of course, there are interests. All institutions have their own interests and institutions in the same area of competition. Now we have nothing to say about conflicting interests. The official of the Red Cross himself mentioned that we should read his report in view of his being an employee of the Red Cross, which he mentioned because he is a respectable and modest man at an institution who likes to have such things on the table and on the level. There's no doubt about it. In view of the fact that all reviews of this matter are negative except for the neutral red cross, which still criticizes the bill, I reiterate the question. The senator's right. I don't know about anyone who would say that it was presented as some sacred neutral assessment, not even the one who wrote the following report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u120	Mr. President. Right away. A senator spoke of the authority that ministers and the forwarding party seemed to want to take to them as a group of halls. Vice President of the State Department, Shira Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. Then I'll think about it, because. A senator was thinking that at the meeting of the committee when the case was being concluded, that under the lead of the fine candidate, for the first time in the history of the council, there was no room to review the comments given on the matter. I'm not going to have more to say about it, but I've never had that in my life before. Hv. A senator well reviewed the types of donations that have developed as a proportion of GDP and referred to a strategy adopted here in 2011. It is then appropriate to recall that at that time a program was submitted, which was then changed by the council; it was loaded, i.e. The council wanted to increase their donations faster. Then there was a senator who has become president of a political party and is serving today as minister of finance. V.E.G. The French minister of Bjarni Benediktsson's son made a special presentation to them to state that he supported it and thought it was a very realistic conclusion. That's why I mention it because of what it is. A senator said that now we are giving 0.21% of GDP during development. That's exactly right, but it would have been more than 4 billion that would have gone to the seminar if the original strategy of the Council agreed upon by a rumor had been followed. What do you think? A senator about this? How does he feel about promises? Secretary of State last year when the percentage was 0.23% that he said would never decrease? It's lower now. [[The president calls.]] It's 500 million less this year than it's the highest. A minister promised last year that it would be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u121	A respectable president. I'm going to leave it at this point to talk about the committee because I was the sudden audience with the State Department of State, usually there is. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir on that committee, but she's overseas, so I jumped in there for a meeting. The discussion there I consider to be the result of a certain assembly montage in the spring that was involved in the moment and in fact assumed at the time that there would be misunderstandings that would result in much confusion in this town and everyone as surprised that someone had understood things differently than anyone else. However, with regard to their financial contributions. A senator mentions, i.e. The 2011 Parliamentary conclusion that we are paying 0.7% of the nation's income for developing cooperation, I feel that in short, as if in my speech, we are to fulfill it first before we are going to increase some practicality by laying down institutions and setting up projects in the Ministry. If this is how we're going to improve developing cooperation, I don't think it's credible until we fill the promises we have made to ourselves and others about how we're going to make money in this category. As long as we can't deal with it, I don't believe that we're increasing the economics of the group by shutting down the European Development Agency. Away from all the other points I've come into in terms of power, such as treatment at the highest level. A minister of state with power and all of that, completely from all that we could say about the Minister or the story, it seems to me that I do not agree to improve the practicality of this matter before we fulfill the promise we made about 0.7% of the nation's income in the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u122	Madam President. Piranha often say this and boast that they fight primarily for civil rights. Sir faithful, it is not the right of those on the Foreign Affairs Committee as members of Congress to consider also taking away the rights that have always been dedicated in committees, i.e. to study the hard facts of the institutions on such important issues? I feel like Piratar and wretch. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson should use this opportunity when they have here the vice president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, one of those who also have important jobs for the Foreign Congress, why. paritaprevir Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, however, asked about the new practices where civil rights are taken from those on the committees. I think it's a matter that should be under this discussion. I'm not going to get into it any more. There would be more to discuss on this occasion. [[The president calls.]] But I just want to say in the end that I agree with the basic theme of a talk. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u123	A respectable president. I would not, in fact, deem the rights of members of Congress in committees or in the general body of Congress to civil rights. I think civil rights are another thing. I understand the connection in that in the presence of smaller objects, he has to have rights in his dealings with the one who has caused, which in this case is the greater part. I understand the connection as long as possible. A senator has civil rights but civil rights is the nature of the case according to something that belongs to the citizen, the man who sleeps on the bench, not to members of the committee, to maintain it. This, however, is about another prince who Pirats try to convince themselves that they are in charge, which is informed decisions. And informed decisions should be made after a person can examine all the relevant data and discuss them materially and materially and objectively. It sometimes fails here at the council. As far as this case goes, I think it's a little more complicated than that because it reached the last council and treatment in the summer. I could talk about it here much longer, but I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u124	Madam President. Why fix what is fine? When dealing with this issue, it is safe to ask that question. Sadly, the evidence presented is extremely poor to my knowledge and actually based on one report. In view of what I ended up in opposition to earlier, I'd like to say that in a straight following. You see, a minister of foreign affairs has shocked the woman who made the report I have and others quote, the Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir daughter, that she is a political opponent, and therefore the report is in the way that she is, although she has been prepared for his Ministry Time. That's why it's safe to discuss openly as it happens. There's everyone failing in it, but I think it would have been normal for us to have taken more than one report on which the case is based, once again, on the report of Þórir Guðmundsson, as we know. [[Take it up in: 190 interviews.]] Everything else that had been won, that all other ministers have rejected it, as we've traced it, and we've traced it down many times, it's all set aside. This one report, despite 190 interviews, as is called here from the hall, is the value below. Everything else is set aside and ignored. I don't think that's a good job. It is often said that making big decisions is the best way to be prepared. Here, we have quite a lot of data but the highest. Minister prefers not to use them. He chooses to ignore the fact that there is not just evidence to say that this is to be done, which, in fact, is extremely negative in my opinion or way, is to say that there is nothing in the data that says that a developing organization as it operates today is not the ideal phenomenon and that if it is nurtured, it can grow and prosper further. That is why I started by saying, " Why fix what is already fine? ' I don't understand why the highest. Minister of State wants to do this, or the current head of the State Department, which I wanted to be called here to the hall earlier, and I'm asking if it was. I think it's normal that there's someone here to answer for this matter. I don't think that's why some member of the board have so far been doing so, and I think that they have reason to argue why they burn so hard that this issue is going to remain the same. The problem that should be solved by this change has not been reasoned out, as is shown in the opinion of a smaller part of the State Department because the problem has not been pointed out. And when that is the case, you may ask, " Is this just what I'm doing, so that the minister can say that he's finished like one matter, the first minister to be deceived? ' As I said before, very many ministers have been given this assignment from the government system. I miss not hearing the chairman of a financial committee who speaks a lot about the government system and its power, whether it now opposes it. When you look at the story, it's clearly so that the State Department officials seem to be behind the fact that this arrangement will become a reality. You can't draw another conclusion when it comes to history. One foreign minister after another, no matter what group he's been on, has said, "No, we're not going to do this. It is a famous example when Davíð the son of Oddsson changed the matter, and he was not obedient, and Ambassador Snævarr finally had to sign the case because the Ministry refused to do so. That's where I'd like to see it. Councilmen of the Foreign Party, who talk about the overwork of the public system, step forward and speak. I think this matter is about the fact that here we're talking about people in a foreign environment, we're talking about recipients of help, but I think the emphasis on this bill is primarily on bringing things in and on the Ministry. Where's the voice of the people we're helping? If this is the case, what is the economy for the people in cooperation countries, which I'm afraid I'm very worried about being the result? For developing cooperation to succeed, it requires much time, preparation, and, of course, preparation, and then, we need transparency and assessment of what the harvest is like. The previous talks in this discussion and when we discussed these matters, we have considered an example of the United Nations School and the Peace Guard, all under the Ministry, and there is no assessment. We have no data on how that job has worked, no statistical data, no summary, at least nothing that's ever appeared to us. As a result, a program of development provides a regular overview of the work, how it works, and how it works. When the job goes into the Ministry, it's in the tranny, it's in the abyss. It is also important to assume that the Government Accounting has given great warning that monitoring and implementation are on the same hand. This is also one of the things we are told by the Intervening Committee of the World Congress. That's what we're supposed to change. Follow-up, monitoring, and implementation should not be the same, but the forwarding government and the Independence Party are going to do this; shape and implement a policy, implement and monitor it. Government review says that the Ministry should shape policy under the guidance of the Generals. The Development Agency should be conducted and the surveillance should be in the hands of the Ministry of Firewall. These are the instructions of Public Revision. Why don't we just listen to her sometimes? Just when it's convenient? When and if we want to know something about how things are coming along, we are not loyal. A public opinion cannot make an independent assessment of the State Department, just so people can see what it's all about. But it can make independent assessment of Iceland's European Development Agency, which has, using proben, work very well from all assessments, and is one of our exemplary institutions. We're here talking about 1.5 billion that's going into the direction of the Ministry of State, and that's a lot of money. Now first and foremost, I say again, We must take care of the people, the people, and not the Ministry. That's what I'm worried about, as I said before, and I'll even come. ... inthe reports of Sigurbjörg and what she's left behind, that the money may be put into something completely different from what is needed. I don't think we're supposed to stress that contributions to global development cooperation, e.g. particularly on earth's heat products. I think the companies are self-sustaining about it. There's a risk. Once we're inside the Ministry, we have very little to say about it. The above were just discussed by contributions to development, and some have seen ahead of time, including some. Yeah. The chairman of a legal committee, as we may have been reminded, was the only one who voted against the development teamwork program in March 2013. Of course, we haven't kept our agreement, and it doesn't seem like we're still doing it. I'm sorry, but the government is not going to keep it. I am also deeply concerned that it is dangerous for democracy to take over the Agency in the way proposed. It is stated in the opinion of the object, apart from what I have already traced, that the Agency has been able to establish its activities and have been published in independent reviews and is very diverse and in many countries. It might have been more of a matter of strengthening the Agency than of dragging it under the Ministry in this way. Also, it can be said that the Ministry of State is already making 60% of the donations to the seminary, but the development community is about 40%, so it's after something's done. This has been a review of what DaAC has been able to do in this. We know that in 2016 the death of the FAC report that the Minister feels he is unable to wait, perhaps because he is expecting it to lead us to the conclusion that he will not be able to do this. DAC says that with the involvement of Iceland's team members to the development committee, Iceland's unique approach and experience will be of benefit to her at 30 years. DAC also says that Iceland's foundership in the category has the ability to achieve goals we set for development cooperation. Then you ask yourself, " Why does this have to be changed? ' This assessment was followed by the approval of the increase we were talking about earlier, the growth in developing cohesion contributions, and the rate to reach 0.7% of GDP in 2017. Sadly, this has not happened, and the government has decided to set priorities in ways other than helping poor people here and abroad. It is also worth considering that in a paper with the Minister's bill, this change is supported by efficiency and efficiency and harmony and is spoken of as reducing mismanagement and doubleness. Yet, there have been no cases of such an incident during the discussion, nor was a minister overlooked when he spoke the case before it went to committee; they did not go unnoticed. The head of the Special Mission Committee for Kristjánsdóttir Kristjinnsdótttir last night. Of course, if people have no conviction about the matter and have no sound reasons for it, it is interesting to hear the facts. The members of the body feel that this is the case and whether they are convinced of its rights and reasons that have convinced them that this arrangement will be better, and whether everything other than the report of Þórir is something we should not listen to. The report also shows that there will be no savings, and the Ministry has confirmed it. When you put it all together, you must ask yourself again and again, " What is it? The report shows that it should strengthen a link between evolutionary cooperation and other foreign affairs and that the Ministry considers this to be the best thing to do by moving the projects into the Ministry. By permission of the President, we have a report by Sigurbjörg. ▪ The SISSI and the multi-time development team within the Ministry would weaken professional policy in developing cooperation. Such integration would reduce the ability of the Ministry to establish internal measures for decision making and thereby strengthen the professional policy. By hiding a special agency such as TheSSI implementation of two-sided development cooperation, certain key factors can be developed in an organization designed to promote policy development. First, a comprehensive management process can be achieved in the Agency, focusing on the professional preparation and progressive management of the individual targets followed by internal monitoring and independent assessment. Later, says: It is easier to establish a follow-up of organisations working independently outside of recruitment. This supports Government Accounting. Yet, the Minister intends to go against this despite the government opinion. It's not just about the opinion of two parties, i.e. On the one hand, Þórir, son of Guðmundsson, and the other, Sigurgeirsdóttir. There are others, and that includes a government agency that we rely on monitoring our institutions, who say this is not good. I don't understand why this is the ultimate conclusion. Minister and I believe he's representing the Ministry. Here was the description of Uganda, and in view of the lesser part, we might find that minor incidents can be solved. It also states that despite the exchanges set out there, the Agency's workers, of course, are following Iceland's foreign policy. A respectable president. My time is running out, but, in the opinion of the lower part, it is said that diplomatic emphasis could begin to get involved in the Developmental Cooperation Organization, i.e. Member States can begin looking to their own interests and guided them beyond the interests of the poor, i.e. They can become cohesive business and development partners where they are thrown under the same roof, as I read up here. There's a risk, of course. No one's saying it's gonna happen, but it's gonna stop and we don't have a chance to monitor. While the department can ask the Ministry and call for answers, it is not formal surveillance as if we wish to be treated with our institutions. A reexamination that has advised the last 20 years that performance and monitoring are not within the same scope is not effective in this context. It is stated in the minority opinion that at a meeting of the Committee, the Ministry is too conservative, often missing more scope for innovation and eutrophication in their institutions. This is one of the good words that the European Development Agency has made available to other countries, i.e. for initiatives and new approach to development integration. That must be what we want to do if we are involved in such cooperation with so much money. And no case has been mentioned of the first laid down by a whole institution and entered the Ministry. So it seems that this is, above all, and has been for all these years, mainly the Ministry issue. It is also nice to remind you that some countries have been moving back in the form in which things are going. It was traced to my committee's section that Italians changed their arrangements and established a special institution instead of having the work at the Ministry, and further examples were taken of the meetings of the Committee that supported this. The review of Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir presents the same conclusion as that of Davíð Oddsson in his day, that the development agency will not be laid down but that its site will be extended and the Agency shall be committed to the continuation of the office of Ministers for both two - sided and multi - sided development cooperation in Iceland. This should be our priority, with the people at the scene and the people who accept assistance in foregrounds, not Iceland or Ministers at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u125	President. That caught my attention. A senator called for the presence of the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. This has not been the case. I agree with that. In view of the fact that this matter seems to have just been passed through the committee, a senator said that it is the least of all possible for the chairman of the State Department to sit here. The chairman of the Committee did not sit in it for the last winter, so it does not know anything about the matter. I'd like to ask you what. First of all, a member of the Parliament believes it is sweet that the chairman of the Committee is so interested in this matter and, secondly, why the members of the Federal Parliament do not participate in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] Does she think it has something to do with what I think, that they think this is a trivial matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u126	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I don't think the case shows any class when the head of the Committee, like the head, like the head of the committee. A senator says, is coming into it now. I'm not going to argue that she doesn't know anything about the matter, but at least she was not present with the great discussion that was the last time the case was under this issue. There seems to be no particular interest in this. Maybe it's because people don't think it's a big deal. First of all, they are vast sums of money and great interests are under it. If people do not have conviction for such a major cause of justice and development, then we are in a bad situation. Here are two senators of the forward party, vice president of the Committee, and I think that's why. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson is also on the committee, so I really hope that they will speak up and tell us why they are so convinced that this is the best way. It's important to know how people feel about this matter, but I think somehow the conviction is little or little. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u127	President. I agree with what. Senator. Sadly, this does not seem to be worth providing their opinion of the case, which is naturally bizarre, as developing cooperation is one of the basics and how it is put into place. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about the change that is about to take place. A significant amount of money has been provided in the development community on a project that we are working in cooperation with other countries, especially in terms of global warming. Would it not be a challenge to obtain money from outside if they were to enter the Ministry? Is it not more difficult to cooperate with the Ministry of One Nation than with an independent agency, e.g. Such a special assignment? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u128	Madam President. That's what you worry about. How will these funds be handled? Will they be set aside at the scene or become business interests on top, as with the earth's heat projects? I'm telling you, those who are involved in these geo-gravities do not particularly need this support or support that the Ministry contributes to direct political cooperation in the field. In my family, I have some personal experience to have people who have served in this service and feel that they have some information about it. People's concerns focus primarily on the fact that less money goes to the people in direct assistance and more on some business opportunity and interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u129	A respectable president. Much is said on the side of the government that it does not know the purpose of this bill. The purpose of the bill is thoroughly tore up in the bill itself. To find out what the purpose is, you need to read comments on the bill. Among other things, it is that all contact with foreign countries is consistent and single - handed and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy. This will make the economy, and it's gonna be a lot of solidarity. I'm gonna pray. A senator apologized that I called in earlier and said Þórir Guðmundsson spoke to 190 people. That's not true. He spoke to 179 specialists in his report. I know Þórir Guðmundsson very well. There goes a very careful man, a great professional in his field. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether she mistrusts the 179 members he spoke to, whether she mistrusts Þórir Guðmundsson in the preparation of a report that brings up other experts but does not consider that this report is merely the subject of one man's mind. [[The president calls.]] He is behind 179 individuals and professionals. She doesn't trust Þórir Guðmundsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is not about distrusting Þórir Guðmundsson. This is about the fact that here are two professionals who give their conclusions and not just that, one person is said to be right, while the other person's comments are ignored. The comments of the State Accounting are ignored. Like what? A senator reasoned here, asking me, " What hasn't been compatible? ' What has not been good in the arrangement we have today? That's the criticism we're calling for. She has not been reasoned with me and many others. Why is he convinced that a State Accounting is wrong, e.g. When she speaks of performing and observing, shouldn't there be one hand or another? I think that's important. It can also include how we put up questions when interviewing. They know why. A senator was well - versed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u131	A respectable president. Actually, I thought I was asking questions, not why. Senator, but okay. She's asking me questions. She's talking about two professionals, that's right, and here's a great deal of the winner's Sigurbjörg, Sigurgeirsdóttir, who was handled on this case. The report was prepared with the preconceived position that the development community would continue to operate. We're in a hurry. This report focused mainly on the work of an organization within that institution. How, then, can the report of Þórir Guðmundsson's son, based on interviews with 179 experts, be made? That's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u132	A respectable president. It is not true in my opinion that one of the parties'report focused solely on the continuation of the situation. Þórir Guðmundsson also offered more ways than this one, so let's not forget it. The only one was chosen by the minister. This shows that there is evidence for a final selection of at least one rather than at least three. By the permission of the President, Iceland's development cooperation will be for the benefit of being one of the three main projects of the Ministry and contributing to the greatest coordination with the Ministry's second work on international topic projects, He also suggests more ways, just as the other writer does. Let us not forget that. Then it is the Minister's choice, in the end, to decide what makes him the most reasonable one. That's why I think it's important that we keep in mind that it's not just about two persons, even though we're very busy quoting these two reports. [[The president calls.]] To me, it's all about construction, planning, monitoring, and then the National Reexamination and Study Committee report says, "This is not how we do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u133	President. I've been looking at this bill a little bit and I think I'm down on something that you might be able to puzzle together for a reason. I see the reason the law was No. 121/2008 and then some changes have been made, and this bill calls for it. It is noted that by turning aside from the double, this would be more powerful. However, the UNI and the Ministry already work very closely together as a result of the identification of public financial and economic funds so that putting this on one hand is very limited to reason, especially when there is no apparent economic efficiency to be achieved except to a very limited extent or as it is said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u134	Madam President. What you see in these matters is that the reason is not exactly true. It has been said, but they have not been reasoned with them. Hv. A senator who before me spoke in reply read what the purpose was. There's been no way to argue with this. It's only a law that involves those few words, but there's no evidence behind them. That, of course, is what we are criticizing. The work together has gone well up until now, and it can be corrected and corrected. The Agency can be supported, and it should have been my sense to be the object of the State Department of State to strengthen it, but maybe the Ministry has just become so small that something is missing, what do I know. At least this sounds very strange. [[The president calls.]] I think it's just words, but not something that supports them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u135	Madam President. I'd like to read some interesting sentences from the bill, with President's permission: ... the potential benefits of a combined project will be used to improve the operation...-resurrection. ▪ Give the arrangement time to develop, but hopes for this to work effectively. These are possibilities and hopes. They also say, by permission of the President: It has been important, though, that cross political agreements for the seminary... - This bill doesn't sound that way. Here's the problem, Mr. President's permission: The work programme of the colleagues and development committees overlaps, and there is uncertainty... There is nothing about the TSSI there, so there is a task of some body and committee that overlaps and therefore of decommissioning. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u136	Madam President. It's no wonder. A senator doesn't understand. That is exactly what we think is most crystalline in this discussion. There's a lot of reasoning behind it, efficiency, teamwork, and something, only if they're going to tell people what's going on. This has in itself been observed only in terms of the fact that there will be some structural change and if the staff of the European Development Agency doesn't want a job that the Ministry uses probe thinks is comparable to the Ministry that decides whether it's comparable, they'll be sent out. Maybe just a few people are supposed to be reduced, and they'll be together, and they'll save the money, I don't know. We've been trying to figure out that something is possible, that hopes are up, and that the Agency has not been reasoned that the Agency has not survived, and that, of course, this transverse reconciliation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u137	A respectable president. I had two positive moments ago. I looked out the window and saw dry ground for the first time in a long time, and then I saw what. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson is here in return to discuss material matters that I loved very much. I notice that sometimes when we discuss such issues, they seem to be divided between government and government opposition, although the nature of the matter leaves no reason to believe that this controversy is based on a grammatical issue, i.e. Controversy on the issue. I think it's weird. It happens over and over again. Why is this a matter of government and political opposition? This is not a right or left issue. This is not a matter for some fundamental object of category what you can best see, except, of course, how this affects transparency and so on. But now I don't have time. I'm wondering, what's the deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u138	Madam President. A big question is asked. It may take a short break for today's occasion, when it's due. A senator has reached president's age. What's well stated in the argument of the memory and the many of us have done in our last discussion is clear what the senator says. Many ministers from various categories have pushed this assignment away, saying: No, we are not going to do this. Some were reassigned, actually assistant minister Valgerður Sverrisdóttir. I think this crystals in that it was a parapolitic reconciliation, so to speak, ministers, no matter where they stood, said, "We're not going through with this, it's not wise." There's something in it that doesn't make sense. - Except now. And states behind people I don't believe are convinced in their hearts that this is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u139	A respectable president. I think the fate of this case here at the council reflects how the council works, or rather, it doesn't work. You would have thought that this was a matter that the council should be able to discuss as you expect a council to function, that people would come here and reason the matter back and forth, or say a reason against it, and somehow the council would find out a more objective conclusion. I notice, however, that as soon as you start talking, you're being accused of filibusters, and you don't really care what it is. Also, I have noticed that as a result of the management expectation, he is not involved. The conclusion is that this is what the government is talking about. It looks like a filibuster. The administrative part has little or no part, and it looks like a filibuster. I wondered, " How can I improve my job in Congress so we don't have to do this? ' I find it a little strange to hear members of the left movement speak for the highest degree. David's former prime minister, the Davíð of Oddsson, of all the people of the lawsuits. However, it also emphasizes that this should not be a class of catechism. I wondered how we got across that threshold.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u140	A respectable president. These are high questions. If you had the answers to how you could improve the atmosphere, the traditions, the other things, we would have taken the politics out in many ways, and I'm not quite sure that I want to do so. I like that we disagree, and we're all right with it, and we're exchangeing views if the evidence is convincing in trouble. We left green people have conviction that this is not wise. We believe that we have offered sound reasons and, among other things, government reexamination, even though we are evading the administrations of government officials, intelligence agreements, and so on. This is an institution I trust to review these matters, and she says it's not wise. Sadly, with regard to the governments and their members, they have not communicated much, so I ask them to do so. There's not been enough evidence in my opinion to back up the matter. Otherwise, it's all right that we don't always agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u141	Madam President. We're here to discuss a matter of minor speech. Many factors have been introduced here, and people wonder why. Secretary of state will take this journey, what is its purpose, and why this bill is presented. It was noted earlier during the discussion that the bill is based on the report by Guðmundsson Guðmundon, the present worker of the Red Cross, asking if we senators were criticizing the work of a fine man. While the Red Cross is certainly working at a range of risk factors and development providers in many respects, it is not a matter of criticizing the work of Þórir and the summary that was presented in his report, which was presented in the three phase report, this was not the only way to which it was submitted. We need to discuss this from the person who took this final report. As has also been noted in our discussion, there certainly was another 2008 report that discussed the issues of the Developmental Agency, Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir. There were reasons against putting the Agency down and moving into the Ministry and most of the narratives that have been reported on the bill strongly objected to this approach. There is no analysis of the problem that is to be solved by reducing the development community and bringing it into the Ministry of State. Why not start by identifying the problem? As shown in the bill itself, I think there is no doubt in the fact that the Agency has been blessed by many sources of praise, such as the DaAC, an OECD development team. The work program has been completed repeatedly in independent reviews, and this finding has always been observed. So why on earth are we going to put it down and set it up in the Ministry of State? DURING the two - side development cooperation of Iceland, the amount of money that goes to the legal level gives the Agency a 40% contribution and the State Ministry a 60% contribution, providing a number of other multi-time services, including the geothermal and the Peace Care Department. I'm going to do only what was presented when the report of Þórir Guðmundsson's son to the minister of foreign affairs was submitted. The Executive Director of the Development Agency gave a review of the Agency's report by Þórir Guðmundsson on behalf of the Agency, and it considers what is presented in it. The headline says that the report of Þórir on page 21 shows that it is not easy to do what is right in Jehovah's eyes. 32 Shows that if a general support is to be made for developing cooperation, the crucial factor is to ensure the effective use of the funds and to measure the results. The review of the Agency's review provides an answer to the fact that in recent years the Agency has put this emphasis on this focus and that it is documented. in a policy set under the title shown and practice and that any change in organization, emphasis and practice should have this as a goal. The review shows that the report by Guðmundsson Gudmundon suggests that a system of successful management will be introduced into all developing cooperation. The induction and implementation of such a needle would be a significant step in ensuring the use of funds and measurable results. In its review, a developing cohesion agency encourages the minister to initiate work on the induction of success control, while pointing out that this is a vast and complex work and that successal management needs to cover the tasks directly carried out by the Ministry now as multi-national cooperation, two - sided cooperation through international institutions, peacekeeping, emergency services, and the UN schools. It says, with the permission of the president: 'We'd like this to be the main subject of the State Department's State Department of Developmental Commission in the coming years. It therefore agrees with the development of the Agency and that this can be done on the basis of the Agency as it is currently being conducted. The review also says, with the permission of a president: ▪ When offering two - sided development cooperation, especially the activities of the Development Agency, there is reason to linger. The proposals to put down a development partnership and to reduce the general share of two-sided cooperation (which becomes leftover size of the report on increase in international cooperation, increase in emergency and humanitarian assistance, increase in Š citizens' organization and establishment in the new embassies, but little increase in total initiatives) to the point where the knife appears in the cow of these materials -- ◯A strangely incontroversively in the report, it can be observed that only the development of the European Commission is nearly met by the requirements of the application ◯, i.e. the conditions to ensure the use of the budget and to measure the effectiveness of the budget. Is this not what stands out, to be sure that success will be achieved by the government's contribution to developing cooperation and the use of available funds? Indeed, a developing working agency has been responsible for that vital role. It also says: We feel very unlikely that it would be likely to improve the effectiveness of developing cooperation, according to the above definition of Þórir, to import the project into the Ministry. We also agree that such a change was in opposition to the administrative institution that has developed in Iceland that the Ministry is concerned with policy and monitoring and that institutions are responsible for implementing... Compared with the administration of other schemes, it is noted that such institutions as Vega and the Fish Office would not be interested in importing organizations into the local Ministry. It so happens that the European Development Agency of Iceland is the only professional agency under the State Department to be submitted. The review of the report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson points out that transnational reconciliation was about the present organization of evolutionary cooperation and that the organization is not very old. In addition, it is stated that peer review is being held in Icelandic development teamwork by the Development Committee, DiaC. Why should we not pause and get the results of the report due next year and not go into such important organizational adjustments? There have been some criticisms from several sources, such as the National Association of Iceland. ASI asks a series of questions and asks what would cause the government to do this. By permission of the President, I'd like to quote the ASI comments: The Common Union believes that by moving development cooperation to one hand, i.e. All the responsibility of the Ministry of State, dégn the professional success that the YSSI has achieved. There is a risk that diplomatic emphasis may begin to blend into the developing cohesion, i.e. that contributions will guide them for their own interests, not for the interests of the poor alone. This too is thought - provoking. The UN believes that before making a decision to bring all international development teamwork under the Ministry of State, there are many questions that need to be answered to the report. First, ASI asks: What are the professional reasons for the plans for unity? I don't feel that these answers have been made in the members of the greater section or in the bill itself. Second, the question is, Is there any other law on evolution issues than on other issues, in view that in general the management regime has developed more and more in order to ensure that policy and monitoring of its implementation is carried out than the implementation of professional institutions? And third, questions are asked about the mutual opinion of the OECD, DEC development committee: Why are the findings of the DEC Committee not asked for the organization and success of development relief that is expected in 2016? Finally, the question is, Was there ever any experience in other countries that had an independent organization around developing cooperation, e.g. correspondent in Sweden The Common Union stresses postponing a change in these laws, and it is reasonable that such questions are answered by professionals before proceeding further and making a decision in this important matter. This has been identified as the contribution of our Icelanders to development contributions and the aim of us to contribute 0.7% of GDP to development. We have a long way to reach that goal, and we have even backed up, for a minister suggested that the jury perform 0.23% of GDP, but the proportion went down to 0.21%, so it has dropped by 500 million. K. This was shown in the case of the highest. Former secretary of state, Aphess Össur's Skarphéðinsson that there were several billion, 4 billion missing if the target was agreed to achieve, to contribute 0.7% of GDP to this case. If that had been the case, as approved during the last term, some 4 billion were missing. That, too, is sobering. I don't understand why it's the highest. The minister of state is taking over in this case and is going to drive it through. We who have criticized the bill have spoken of somehow as the only case he has a chance to penetrate, and then all will be up to him, even though there is no evidence. I agree with the opinion of a member of the State Department, which states at the end that the bill is neglected, in shortness of reason, and partly based on misunderstandings and no objective basis is being brought on for bringing down this good organization, the European Development Agency, and bringing it into the Ministry of State. It is totally ignored by the opinion that policies and surveillance should be carried out in the Ministry, but the implementation should be at the hands of the institutions. It is totally overlooked by the criticism that the Government Accounting has brought on this case because if it happens and the bill will be accepted, it will all be under the same hat. I don't think it's a good government and to be overlooked, as mentioned above, the criticism that established the national administration in a report by the World Commission on collapse. It is time to ignore the direction and comments received from the Government Accounting in this case. All the assessments that have been made on the SSI account refer to it as the State's modeling organization. I'm going to be at the end of this meeting to refer to the Committee on My Department of Foreign Affairs. It quotes Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir, one of the largest evolutionist in the country, an undaunted character in a story she writes for the social sciences of Iceland's University. It reviews the bill and suggests that a developing cohesion agency will be promoted instead of despondency, and it will come to the same conclusion as did Davíð Oddsson at the time and in his conclusion of the motion that the YSSI will not be subjugated but that its domain will be expanded and the Agency will be assigned to continue the services of both the two-sided and multi-time development cooperation of Iceland. Under this, I sure can take it. I think all of this is very bad, because it is indirectly expressing the lack of confidence in the activities of this good agency over the past few years and in her staff who have worked there. It's not expected that there will be any savings, but it seems to be something on the drawing board at the highest level. Ministers and he's going to go all the way to get this evil thing going, and I think it's really bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech and especially for calling attention to the way the minister of foreign affairs puts it here to become part of our development teamwork, i.e. to close and transfer evolution into the Ministry is not the only proposal of Þórir Guðmundsson in his marked report, not at all. He offers three suggestions. I think it's very important that we do. I felt that there is something wrong with the criticism of Þórir Guðmundsson, who is against us in this way. I'm just saying, what's this all about? We know this well - and because a senator earlier said: "I know Þórir Guðmundsson, I say: I know Þórir Guðmundsson as good as it should be, and I'm not supposed to be here in a Senate hall to be that way. But I would like to ask. Councilman: Why is it the highest power? Minister of State to this extent is this to be done? Why is this the will of the State Department officials? I'm just gonna let me say: I think that's just to increase the number of ambassadors. What does it look like? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u143	Mr. President. Yes, it is a little tricky to intend to read in the progressive brain section at the very most. Minister of foreign affairs, but he may well see the possibility of an increase in the number or support of some ambassador's office. I think there's something like that. We remember in 2013 when the Ministry of State was due to cut down pretty much. There may have been some means of strengthening the Ministry, and there may have been an interest within the Ministry to get this operation into the Ministry and to ensure financial support into the Ministry to hold on to what was in it. The bill then shows that unless the manager is hired, he will not be hired - unless something has changed. It is considered, not to be saving, but to be adaptable and more efficient. A variety of such words are used in these terms, and that is not defined any further because there is no assessment of the need for this or the problem to be solved. Yet, humans often bite a few things. For example, I believe that the highest. A minister has taken in the sense that he wants to leave behind some inheritance when he leaves as a foreign minister, whether good or bad, and that this is his inheritance, i.e. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u144	President. It is true that the senator's work has naturally been expanded to the State Department of State, such as all legal and administrative matters, as necessary in 2008. In the beginning of this election period, special attention was given to what was always greater in the State Department than in the Council of State, as there are various effective financial matters and the Generals, and, in particular, the chairman of the legal committee, she showed here at a vote a special hostility to the development community. We seem to have rather a huge neutra for breathing in the international air in general. Then I say, "If you transfer this operation into the State Department, shall we use the money we put in a developing research agency in another place?" It's what it is. So a senator may be able to move them to some other project and to use them for some other project other than a developing community service agency, perhaps to - well, I don't know what, strengthen some other aspect of the foreign service, or something like that? Have we lost out on the money that is due to go to a developing research agency? Is there a danger of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u145	Mr. President. It is certainly a question of whether to mix business with development, and it is thought by all professionals that mixing it together is very dangerous and to say that it should be distinguished. Of course, it has been separated completely by having a developing cohesion agency with its role, and it has not mixed with business. However, it is unclear how the funds will be used in the Agency and how the surveillance will be done on the use of funds. Of course, it is not acceptable to have everything done. It is not acceptable today to go back in that way. It's not good luck to be in charge. There is no limit to drawing money into the foreign service, and there will always be someone who has to pull the line from that row. This project, an international development team, is absolutely on its own and is to be completely maintained, away from other commercial interests. I'd like to mention that during the last term, then the government gave a handsome contribution to this group of paintings, a 1 billion who should have grown. The budget would be less than 5 billion if it had continued. Chooses who, and I'm afraid that this group, the development team, will pay to enter the hotel at the State Department. Warnings about the reviews and the mention of my section's opinion that a professional job is advising the Ministry and that it is difficult to ensure that the funds will be used and returned to the best when all is at the same time. Of course, we members of the Parliament need to have a surveillance role in these matters, but this needs to be of sufficient benefit to monitor these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u146	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for very poor interpretation of the situation when it comes to this frightening case to bringing Iceland's Development Research Institute into the Ministry. When I come in here and I'm looking at this case, I see that the stated objective of the bill under the Committee's list of sections is, with the permission of a president: I'd like to stop by this last one, to make the group's policy more specific. Does that not mean, if I'm going to translate this into human affairs, that there is going to be a political improvement in the Agency where policy is clearly not political enough, or the possibility that policy is not close enough to the political authority that the Minister would like to have? The question is, Should evolution be a political phenomenon? That's what it's all about. A senator for developing cooperation, and then for Iceland, should be political? Is that normal when we're talking about developing cooperation? At any rate, I thought it would be good to get it out, that developing cooperation should be parapolitic, or even nothing, of Tripolitic or European politics, and that it should promote human prosperity far and wide throughout the world. Maybe it's just me who gets it all wrong, but I'd like to know what it's all about. There's a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u147	Mr. President. Yes, it's a question of how we will develop evolutionary cooperation, whether it should be political. I believe professionals should come to the shape of the policy and how we make the best use of money for those involved. I think it's mainly a professional thing to do, and they're, I think, in today's Development Network. Then we always come to the sheep market, and then we come to politics, because we have to decide at the General Assembly how much money we're going to enter this suit. I mentioned the preceding goal of the United Nations, that the nations should aim to join this category 0.7% of GDP. It was approved during the last term, but then a new government drags its legs into it, and it's political. It's always at some end when it comes to who's going to pay for it, then comes to politics, and the way people are talking about it. This was highlighted during the discussion earlier. The chairman of the budget board was the only senator to vote against the policy for this lawsuit in 2013, so there are certainly differences of opinion. It is stated in the financial law of this government that it contributes far less to the seminar than were planned, and it is political. But I don't think there's any doubt that professional policies should be within this institution and in the hands of professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u148	A respectable president. I want to thank you for that answer, which was very clear and clear. It seems that there are many places to find the political bitch, especially when it comes to money. If it's about money, why don't you just say it in the bill and in the opinion of the committee? It does not seem to be a financial gain because of bringing the Agency into the Ministry. Rather, it seems mainly to increase political media management. It is worth considering, when we become as important a global organization as a developing and civilized organization, it is something that all developed and civilized countries want to do and are proud to do. This is something we should be proud to contribute to the international community, to be members, and to be active members of developing cooperation. I wondered, " How can it be really possible to maintain the political neutrality of the Agency when it decides what task it will take if the agency is entering the Ministry? ' It doesn't seem to matter what we say or do in here, it doesn't matter. But it's about how loyalty, first political media development, is not a matter of Iceland's political specialist politics or the highest power. Rather, for humanitarian reasons and for the kindness of humanity to shine rather than commercial interests or alliances that are created in some gangs of the world, and we know nothing about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u149	A respectable president. It is this with them every time powerful men want to always take on assignments, though they may speak differently to the common people in order to receive support when they take a vital role, such as being a senator, I don't talk about ministers. They talk about doing democratic work and having transparency in all objects and about efficiency and whatever we call them. But more often than not, it is the tendency to take up one's own tasks in order to influence action and the way things develop. Some things are so that we have to donate to institutions such as the Developmental Cooperative Organization, which has shown that it is working well and has received a high quality label in many independent assessments from the OECD Development Committee and others, and those professionals on the basis of freedom to continue working on the humanitarian tasks underneath. Number one, two and three are the emphasis we should have on this case. We are not supposed to take risks in that material and mix it together in a warpot within the State Department of State with other factors completely unrelated to the seminary and not to mix with it, such as business interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u150	President. That's a good rule, I was told years ago, when I came into Congress -- I don't even remember who told me - that in the case of law-enforcement bills, trying to figure out if the law needs to be changed. Why do people change their tunes? What is the purpose of changing the law? What is the purpose of making changes? Often, they seem to have vague goals, not often very strong, but rather than do things better than they are. I feel that there is a lack of reading this bill, i.e. the change in the law on international development cooperation in Iceland, and that it is well defined and discussed why this is done. Why do people suggest a legal change in the kind of life being made here? It is often very difficult to grasp the argument in the bill, as well as when it comes to reviews, both the committee's opinion and the comments of those who have sent their opinions to the State Department. I'll get better at that later. By permission of a president, the law bill comments: In accordance with the bill, the Agency's project will move to the Ministry and the Agency will be submitted. This is quite clear, the Agency is to be put down and put under the Ministry. This change in work from DSSI to the Ministry will depend on the inevitable change in the daily activities of all who work in development cooperation at the Ministry. I do a little better for this part, i.e. The staff cases, below. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: It is not a change in policy, aims, or work done in Iceland's development partnership. The object of the law is not to change policy, goals, or practices in developing cooperation. The aim is to lay down the Agency and bring it directly under the minister and State Department. End of story, Il. the section on the bill, by permission of the President: Implementation of law No. 121/2008, with subsequent changes proposed by the bill, bends almost exclusively to change Iceland's arrangement and organization of international development cooperation in that all of Iceland's projects move into the Ministry of State, which follows the implementation of all development cooperation by the Icelandic government. It is subject directly to a minister of how all development cooperation by the government is carried out. Then it says: ▪ Other changes in the law are about to change the arrangement for government policies, instead of implementation - in the field of development and size, and the role of a developing body member. It comes back to the questions and speculations that have been discussed today, in the last speaker and in answer, whether there is a more political authority here to direct the European Development Agency and then in any career than what is now being done, i.e. that it will be easier for a minister than before to have a political intervention into the work of the European Development Agency, after this legislation will be approved in case of disaster. If there is not a change in policy or objective, then the goal should be for the minister to have a greater impact on the way things are done. Regarding staff matters, in comment on the bill, by permission of the President, it says: ▪ During the time the Icelandic government has made contributions for international development working together in the 1930's, its employees and the Ministry have built up vital expertise, which, in turn, adds up to the unification of the work unit. Together it is important to maintain the expertise of all workers in developing cooperation, including with re-education, and make sure that it is not lost in the regular transfers of workers between work stations. During the transfer of TheSSI and the Ministry, a decision must be made on which jobs are selected in relation to their education, job experience, and skills. As a consequence of preparing, employees will be invited to perform comparable jobs in the Ministry as they were in the [U.S.A.] office. Therefore, the staff will not necessarily go to the same work as they do at the TSSI, but they will be made sure that they are comparable in terms of dress, tasks and position, as previously said [...] Prior to the conclusion of TheSSI, on January 1, 2016, the Agency's personnel will be offered a job in the Ministry according to events related to the transport of foreign workers under the above laws. The bill puts much emphasis on the experience and knowledge gained by the workers of the Development Agency in their jobs and on the knowledge within them. However, it is not guaranteed in this bill that this work programme must be tried to preserve that knowledge. On the contrary, there is considerable doubt that this is the direct goal. The wording in the bill indicates that at least there is a weak basis for it to happen. As a result of preparation, employees will be offered comparable places or jobs as they were employed by the Agency. But the workers of the European Development Agency are not necessarily going to do the same work. However, they will be considered comparable with regard to the hatches, and they will be offered a post-mortem job. All of this is on a weak foundation for the workers of the European Development Agency and, by no means, can be held that the bill, by the law, ensures that the knowledge and skills that the workers of the European Development Agency are in charge today, remained by moving this organization or putting it down and bringing it up under the Ministry of State. The bill also says, with the permission of a president: The development of Iceland's entire organization is developing government policies and aims to be most effective for economics. Only by moving the project on one hand, the organization is being simplified. A better overall vision will be gained over the group of subjects and policy development will be more progressive in the case of one responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible for it. For this reason, there is no particular argument. We could discuss it well, and we did it during the last term, and something may have happened during this terms, including together. It has often taken considerable conflict to unite organizations, to let them follow along, and to further their goals, perhaps when they were formed years ago and even decades ago. We combined some organizations during the last term, which included this goal. But I don't remember that a single institution, whether in that terms, and I don't think in this, has just been put down and served under a minister. I don't think that happened, but it may be, though, that I don't have the knowledge or knowledge, that an institution was laid down and entered the Ministry directly under a minister as it stands to do here. On the contrary, in recent years the purpose of all the institutions was to expand and strengthen the work, improve the ministry, keep the knowledge inside the door, and I think I have succeeded. I don't hear today the critical voices, the much critical conversations, which were in the last term on the co-aliencies; I'm talking about the tax office, roadmaking, traffic clinics, NGOs, etc., but this took time, needed to discuss the matter and take them through a lot of discussions here at the council and at the council and at the council committees and at the institutions. Finally, the landing I think most of us would agree that we were doing well. This is a very different matter. This is to lay down an institution and bring it directly under a minister. Finally, on the legal bill itself, I'm always enjoying reading the financial and economic reviews, i.e. The office of government finance. I usually start by reading that review when I receive a bill, both because it is, in spite of all the many times and times, quite a nice piece of writing that can be read and directly to most aspects of it, i.e. There are little interests at stake, and those who write these fine reviews from the Ministry of finance are often explicit in their comments. This is also true of what is here. The official financial review of the office says, by permission of the president: ▪ It is not expected that the bill will interfere with financial expenses for the management and support of this case, it will remain the same as the law, assuming that the potential benefit of matching projects will be used in other ways. It will continue to be stated in the law that contributions to international development cooperation should be paid from the state's funds as each year's budget is established. The remuneration right to employees is not expected to survive the bill's legalization; nor will all fixed personnel be offered comparable to those in the Ministry. It leaves no doubt that there is no financial interest in this process, i.e. If it's legal, it's no financial advantage for the State Department and no savings will result from this union. When the good people at the Ministry of finance who write this report talk about the possible benefits, we know that it's far from us, so we don't say any more. It's often nice, too, when you've been trying to figure out the goals of a bill, as I went over earlier, and here you see, which are very vague - we know who they are, i.e. to lay down the Agency and bring it directly under the secretary's office. There is no specific evidence in my opinion. What, though, do reporters who are asked to give such a review so that they are likely to improve the situation? Then, with the permission of the president, to the opinions and reviews of the National Association of Iceland, which reiterates its previous reviews, it says that the relationship's position remains unchanged on this issue as it has always been, which means that there has not been much consideration for the review and opinion of the National Association of Iceland to this point. By permission of the president, the review says: ASI'S doubts about the implications of the radical changes proposed by an earlier bill have come to mind. One of the main reasons for changing according to the bill are that the development of one hand is by simplifying the organization. A better overall vision will be gained over the group of subjects and policy development will be more targeted in the case of one responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible for it. The National Association of Iceland suggests that a decision to change the law on Iceland's international development team and that the above questions and others will be answered by professionals before the final decision is made. What are these questions? Yes, first of all, there is a question about professional reasoning that lays the groundwork for united plans. They're not even shaved in the bill. What professional evidence is behind this? Second, the question is, Do other laws apply on evolution issues and other issues, in view of more and more developments in general in developing policies and monitoring of its implementation than in the implementation of professional institutions? What other evidence applies in this case rather than in other matters? Third, it is considered the OECD Development Committee. Why is the decision not to be made on the organization and the success of the proposed development aid in 2016? Fourth, it is asked whether the experience of other countries has been examined by having an independent organization around developing cooperation, such as. in Sweden? This is the opinion and review of the National Association of Iceland. The Agency's staff agree with comments and protests that have been presented in the Agency's comments on this bill to put down the European Development Agency. The Agency's staff believe that it would be desirable to transfer more projects in the field of development to the European Development Cooperative Agency and to promote the category in the opposite manner to what is expected on the bill. The workers are not only opposed to the success of the bill; they offer a direct suggestion that other routes will be gone, that they will be gone in the opposite direction. A respectable president. I see my time is running out, unfortunately. I would've wanted to keep a longer number here, of which I'm taking it. Nevertheless, like others, I want to note the warnings that have come from sources - here, Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, among other things, has been named - regarding the risk that when agencies are brought in this way into the Ministry, directly under the Minister, the neighborhood surveillance role, and become small and short in depravity. As Sigurgeirsdóttir puts it, the ways of corruption are often unsearchable, and great innovations exist in that regard. We now know this from other areas. A number of factors could be cited, probably in the hundreds of pages of the General's study report, in terms of poor surveillance; when institutions, recruitment, do not overlap, when internal surveillance is not sufficient to maintain a reasonable monitoring of institutions, both professional and financial. It is one of the cornerstones of our study report that our duty to monitor has failed, that we do not have enough perspective on what we are doing, and that we lack the criticism of our own jobs, institutions and agencies, in the council, that all of this is not to be done. To be honest, I was hoping that we were going to a different direction, in order to expand our surveillance and make it more efficient, rather than do things in the way suggested in the bill, i.e. ... toimporte the Agency directly and transfer it into the Ministry of State. This increases the risk of corruption; this increases the risk that money will not be used in the way it was planned; this increases the risk that ministers, political ministers, will use their power to prevent the failure of the aims of the Development Agency. That's the big risk of the bill, and we're supposed to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u151	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may come a bit cold on this matter, but apparently he had studied very well the evidence available. He raised several so - called reasons for laying down the Agency, and he found that the evidence did not contain anything to support the claims as the highest point. A minister called it argument. I would like to draw attention to him. The senator's report on the bill also makes it clear that those who have written the bill and the report do so with tears in their eyes and use every opportunity to commend the Agency. So at the same time as the minister raises reasons for discharging the Agency, it is highlighted in the report and is particularly stressed that the Agency, with the permission of presidents, has achieved such a good job in the field, as follows. It also states with full respect for the assessment and opinion of Þórir Guðmundsson, an employee of the Red Cross. A minister laid the basis for his proposal that the TSSI have, by permission of the president of ◯ Many people, on independent assessments. In view of this, it is naturally completely incomprehensible why the Agency should be laid down. Hv. A senator then traced it to the level of handling of the matter and concluded that it did not save anyone. In fact, it may even cost because the minister here said that some training for employees who are going to go to these mails and who have not developed specialized skills would be necessary. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: What reasons does he consider to be the ultimate? Ministers prefer to put down this institution, which is basically an exemplary institution, at least In the opinion of the State Accounting?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u152	A respectable president. You're right. You're right. You're going to miss it. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's bug, there's no particular evidence for this bill or its goals in the bill itself. At least they're not very clear. This can be read in part of the Committee's section of the World Congress, which directly quotes the reports that the Agency has received by permission of the president: A report with the bill is climbed on terms such as efficiency, efficiency, coordination and co-ordination, and the subject of reducing the quality of the problem and bickering. These are the objectives of the bill; efficiency and efficiency are being increased and detracted. There are, however, no examples of this committee in the bill itself. There are no examples of how this activity is unpredictable, of much trouble in the operation, or of double action. There are no examples, and there are no arguments. It is reported in my committee's list that no such cases have occurred, despite repeated attempts, such cases could not be presented to the committee meetings, i.e. The committee has endeavored to seek out examples presented in the bill without success. It also states in the opinion of the minority, by permission of the president: During discussions at the General Parliament and at the Committee meetings, ministers and representatives of the State Department of State were desperate to cooperate with the DSSI Ministry and if there were any examples of the lack of communication between TheSSI and foreign parties with Iceland's foreign policy. The representatives of the Ministry gave a fine witness in general. There is no evidence to support the case in any way. I don't quickly realize why the minister puts this matter forward and not for the first time, for the second time it's the least. He seems to have resolved in his political career as Minister of Foreign Affairs to build this stone as a memorial of putting up the European Development Agency. [[The president calls.]] I don't see any evidence of that, they're not here. [[The president calls.]] There's some other logic that I'm invisible to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u153	Mr. President. Hv. A senator correctly attributed that in a paper with the bill, one of its primary objectives is to reduce problems. There was no way to point out any of the activities of the Agency that could be brought under adverse circumstances. It's the only reason why we're here. It's the only reason why we're here. A senator who brought out the most unbridled witness, that is the Ministry's financial office. This is made up of a direct quote. A senator read here that this would lead to no savings. What causes them? There is no man in this room who has supported this bill so far. A member of the parish has spoken up for three minutes in response to the minister. [[Up front.]] No other senator of the Minister's Party has come to give a speech with the bill. One member of the Independence Party has been giving a speech and speaking against the bill, apparently now being backed up by it. In other words, there is one man who has conviction in the matter, and that is the highest. Minister, but it's a sign that he's abroad, and he who has the case in his custody, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, has not even been here all day. This is the interest in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u154	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's bug, that doesn't seem to be very convincing. It doesn't appear in the bill itself. There is no convincing and convincing reason why the Development Agency should be put down and why we should think of accepting this bill. It hurts. I have not found one positive tone in the relevant comments, i.e. reviews that have been submitted to the council on this matter, to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which encourages the approval of the bill. A law bill that includes not a clear objective of putting down institutions, such as this case, a law bill that is not given a positive report, which no one recommends to be accepted is not only a bad bill but a law bill that is not to be approved at all and is not to be discussed at the Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u155	President. Thus, the more we discuss it, the more difficult it will be. Hv. paritaprevir In his talk about the matter, Björn Valur Gíslason tried to understand why it was most important to make such an effort. In his talk, I felt that there was no reason for that. All who applied are opposed to the case, except perhaps the Red Cross. They answered this question in the same way that the big question is why this bill is presented. It is impossible to find a different answer than that a foreign minister was expected to have been deceived by officials in his early days and then difficult to get out of it. Hence, he intends to do so by laying down this organization, which is praised everywhere. Worse yet, a respected president, it is that members of the government are going to support him in this, but they do not take so little time to come here and be in the discussion. I once again pointed out that the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee does not see reason for this discussion. I'd like to ask the senator, "Now the Agency will be put down, and what?" If people wanted to fix it when this wicked government is removed, is this a factor that is easy to fix? Is it easy, and does it work to lay down an organization one day, and then people come and build it up the other day? This is much more serious than it's going to be easily fixed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u156	President. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, if this bill is approved on another level, the Development Agency will be submitted to the Ministry. As I went through the past, a great deal of knowledge and skill will be lost by the Agency on the sole basis of laying down the Agency and distributing employees through the Ministry, and it will not be guaranteed in any way in the bill, on the contrary, to argue that in the bill it is expected that employees will not be able to get a job comparable to what they are doing today. There's a lot of ambiguous talk about personnel in the bill. It will probably be very easy to argue that it would be wrong - after the Agency has been laid down, after it has been thrown away and distributed into the Ministry directly under a political minister - and actually wrong to start tearing it all up again. This is why the situation is very serious and will have serious consequences further into the future. It is of interest that reviews on the subject that are cited in the Committee when discussing the potential conflict between the European Development Agency and the Ministry of State. It says that the only example mentioned by the State Department was that proposals for the use of homosexual expressions in Uganda had had to be made several times between the Ministry and the district office before a decision was made. [[The president calls.]] This is not sufficient reason to put down a developing research agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u157	A respectable president. That's right, I think that if all the institutions of the country were closed off in one letter or one report, it would be better if people in cooperation between institutions and the Ministry didn't communicate and would always agree. It is normal that not everyone should write exactly the same. Hv. A senator has done all of this well. Somewhere, it is supposed to be the policy of the State Department on these issues. But isn't it that this is the only example of the failure of the Ministry and Development Organization? Is this not the only case with homosexual acts in Uganda? [[The president calls.]] Let's put the agency down, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u158	President. This is the only example I found in reading the bill, the committee and the review of the bill that had to be replaced by e - mails about expressions relating to homosexuality in Uganda that had to be passed several times between the Ministry and the district before it was reached. Another example I have not found quickly, yet I have read the bill well and reviews of it and the committee's opinion, both in smaller parts and in more parts. This is also the only example, and I reiterate what I said earlier, this is the only thing I know about, and I think it's in one of these data, where an institution is directly submitted to the Ministry. What evidence is there? Why is the European Development Agency of all institutions, the source of this treatment at the highest level of the Agency? Secretary of State and Government and any upcoming council members, should we be law-enforcement and be signed as Minister? [[The president calls.]] There's no explanation for that either.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u159	President. After observing this matter, and especially, a talk given. A senator seems to me that this is only done to increase the central control. It's just a little bit more political media. This is a deportation system where professionals are able to do their jobs without having any political fingers in the porridge every day and evidently being returned to the old ruler of the community, where the ruler ruled over them. I also find it very interesting to hear that this has never been done before, that an institution has been made whole in charge of some intentional decision apparently. Also interesting were warnings. A senator that would be an ideal opportunity to increase corruption of the Agency as ministers. This too has been a subject of much discussion regarding the words of Davíð the son of Oddsson when it comes to the Development Organization. Among other things, a member of the council mentioned in a report that we failed our surveillance role. Then I would like to recall the words of Davíð, son of Oddsson, which appear in the Generals' study report that it was so strong at the time of the privateization of the banks. Is this case too strong? Is it necessary to go against the council's will, against what is normal? Is this a description of the old government society we're trying to get away from?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u160	President. It says the review of my part of the State Department, by permission of the president: ▪ There were no cases in the case of the case that no one in the past had ever been placed whole and her work was accepted into the Ministry. The committee found itself repeatedly afraid that the knowledge and knowledge based on specialized institutions such as TheSSI may become more shallow, even lost, by joining a government agency. ◯ This is a general opinion of the speaker of this bill, the people who have given it authority. In a review of the Developmental Cooperative Organization, i.e. The experts themselves, give this bill, say by permission of the President: To form the position of Vega, Fish Room, and Others, we prefer to ask whether anyone would think of moving these institutions into the Ministry with similar logic as found in a report by Þórir. No one can think of it. I can bet you that no one can think of moving other institutions directly under the department with the same logic they get for this move in the bill. The only explanation I've ever considered is the one that hasn't. A senator mentioned earlier that a minister is seeking more authority, political intervention without supervision in an important institution, such as the European Development Agency. There's always a danger of corruption. Once this sort of thing is sealed up in councils, behind closed doors, there is a danger of corruption. Corruption thrives in secret only.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u161	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. It's obviously a very special case in Iceland's history. It seems that the council has very little power to intervene, has no alternative but to talk about it. It seems that we are speaking to deaf ears. There seems to be nothing to be done to get people who are working on this, right? A minister and his followers, to reason it out of some sense. So I'm going to have to ask you now if it's vivid to the political bitch who's going to be here, if we're going to walk on closed doors forever because there seems to be nothing that can be done. I'm just asking, just to be a member of the council and to be in a bit of a existential crisis with whether this is the Iceland we want to have, whether it's the government we want to have, that it can only do what it wants to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-22-25.u162	President. That is a very good question, and it would be worth discussing carefully and thoroughly here in the Hall of Congress whether it is the exact way we want it to have it. There's evidence to support that. Yes, it is the way the Icelandic country likes to have things by giving a vote-off, for example. before crash, long before collapse. Then there were selected groups of authority who wanted it like this, and things were like this until it collapsed in our heads. Then we had it investigated, we had it checked, we had it all worked out, and then we found out that this was the way things were done, and it was wrong. It was wrong to do what was then done. It was wrong to increase the authority of a minister. It was wrong to secretly lock things up. It was wrong to spread the power in few places rather than to spread it. Then we might ask again: Why are we doing this again? An attempt was made following the study report to change this pattern. The independent government has had the primary objective of calling all those changes back now and going further in the other direction, including by taking down the Development Organization, removing it, and sealing it into the Ministry of State. [[The president calls.]]
