ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u1	President. I just want to say it like a dog. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir made that it is always being pushed into the law of prison punishment, as in those laws. Prison punishment is much more fitting in civil law. If, for example, a person breaks off his sinew with a tendon, there may be a two - year sentence against it. That's something we should wonder about. I had a new proposition for that. I haven't been to any votes lately if they've been in the morning so that my son is sick at home and I've had to take care of him. But if it's my new proposal now, I'm going to look at it, I'm going to encourage men to accept it and drop prison punishment from the bill they're trying to squeeze into law. Prison punishments belong elsewhere. If a person breaks off his sinews in such a way as to harm a person's property or put people at risk of such things clearly at home in public penalties and may preserve prison punishment, rather than allowing such regulations to be found in this law that it is permitted to place people in a two - year prison for incineration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u2	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, the law of prison punishment is being crammed into the sauna law. I just want to ask those members of Congress who are going to vote against this change proposal to turn this thing aside and accept that it belongs in public penal law. If humans are involved in tendon burns that put people at risk, or in some other way, people and their belongings are at risk only in public penalties. I wanted to ask you why. Councilmen in this hall why they're going to vote against merely dismissing this law, why they do it. And what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir who now spoke for it here, I don't see... [[She's green.]] She's green.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u3	I'm green, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u4	Another green, dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Daði Einar Einarsson. Can other senators arise? Yeah, there's another senator here. Anyone else? No, really. Come on up and tell me why you don't want to accept the change. I challenge you. Come on up. Okay. Hopefully into the future. This is the same procedure for professional transport, where punishment is also being attempted. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let us consider this before it will be too late to make a change of mind and make a change of mind. [[The president calls.]] It may be difficult to change one's mind in the middle of a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u5	V.E.G. President. I recommend a board of members with a change in bill proposal to legalize the production, prices and sale laws, food management laws and customs laws, from a greater part of the employment network. A lot of visitors came before the committee. The bill suggests that the management projects handled by the European Farmers Association have been signed by a contract that will be brought to the Food Agency. These are externals and bone grafts due to the production of sheep, milk and vegetables. The bill responds to comments on the surveillance of market treaties by the National Reconnaissance. It is also intended to simplify the implementation of the agricultural industry so that the administrative work that it holds out will be a protection for a single institution. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes presented in the Senate document. Under these publications, plus what follows President Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, in advance, Bogi Hafliðason of the Seasmanson, and Kristján L. Möller, who was absent from the case but whose writings were listed as a warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u6	A respectable president. I'd just like to curiously ask about this adjustment proposal of the larger part that turns to the distribution of tollovates, which I and us in the short future feel are not a step in the right direction, whether the adjustment proposal was made to someone, or whether the stakeholders have had a chance to have something to say about it. We marvel at this adjustment arrangement, since it is actually a minister's license to offer out tollathans instead of throwing lots as many stakeholders have noted to be a better solution. I don't think it's a step in the right direction to make this happen. There may not be one way necessarily when it comes to assigning the limited quality of these tollovians, but I would say that was the worst way. So I was disappointed to see that change, so I would like to ask. Þórunn If you don't Egilsdóttir, why do all the members of the committee agree to this? And whether they think this is the best way. Because it is actually setting up the cost of buying or getting a quathane and paying for extra salathan, of course it goes into the price. So there are consumers who will eventually pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, the committee had numerous visitors, as the committee noted. The reason for this proposal is judgment that recently fell in the province of Reykjavík, where it was concluded that a minister has a selection of 3 mg. 65. g. used, i.e. whether lots are cast or offered, including the authority to determine whether a tax is laid or not. That's it. It's one of the things that stress the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u8	A respectable president. I realize that it is, of course, a political question which way to go, and it is obvious that the majority of the committee would not want to increase the cost of competition or import, as it would also have been possible to go the other way and say that lots would be cast. So this way is chosen, not the other. I would like to say, but it is, of course, a political question to share these limited quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u9	A respectable president. I hereby recommend my committee and the future, with a change in proposal for this matter. I'd like to draw special attention to members of the Parliament to propose a greater proportion of the employment committee in this case, it's a way that the Neighbour Association, the Contestation Board, the Organization of Trade and Service and the Professional Association have warned against. The suggestion of the greater part is with one small monstrosity being laid upon by the method that a marine economistary minister be obliged to extend tollvota in excess of the salarium, which is, unfortunately, too often, rather than allow lots to be administered as per local law. Most of the section's proposals result in a higher price of goods. The offer of tollovita is an act of legalizing the increased penalty on consumers and inhibiting business competition. In short, the suggestion for more part goes out on the increase in tax returns. This can be changed in a simple way, by accepting the arrangement I recommend here, where a minister is obliged to allow lots, rather than offering tollocates with the related tax system and costs to consumers. I'd like to read from a committee party what comes with the adjustment proposal. This is no longer a matter of repetition, but this is an important matter and therefore I urge senators to listen, by permission of the president: The main part is not opposed to the bill, but it cannot be supported because the majority have suggested that we add to the regulations that will dislodge a minister of 3 mgr's clearance. 65. g. The law to allow lots to take part when applying for more import than tollovita. The smaller section suggests a change in the direction of the modified object, i.e. the opposite direction. that a minister's authority other than the removal of lots in the above cases should be allowed. The reason for this proposal is judgment that recently fell in the province of Reykjavík, where it was concluded that a minister had the option of each 3 mg. 65. g. it would be shocking that he had the authority to determine whether tax was laid or not. The smaller portion suggests that the terms of the word "superfine" or, according to to to to the tollovums, the product should go to the state's funds (U.S.A.) in 3mg. 65. g. The law shall go away, and so a lot shall be in charge of an offer beyond the level of tollovita. The memory section feels that it is unacceptable to legalize the way to which to sell tollos, which results in a loss of cost to consumers. This method is not designed to increase trade competition, but the aim of tollovita is to promote competition with agricultural products between countries. . The minority agrees with the view expressed in the 2015 Contestant Report for competition in a daily market, that the distribution of tollovets due to the import of meat, butter and cheese is dropped, but if not done, the Contestance will suggest that the distribution will be free of charge and that lots will be cast upon extra salutation. The report says that the United States conference watch believes that by aiming at the highest prices in tenders, such as having been contributed to higher prices. The minority also agrees with various stakeholders, including The consumer organizations, trades, services, and unions of professional drivers, who have pointed out that the export process works against the public interest, increases prices, and honors competition. The consumer organisations have considered a better way of dealing with demand in excess of the demand to allow lots to handle distribution of tollgos rather than offer them out, for it is clear that the costs of exports fall in part or completely upon consumers. The smaller portion feels that the majority of the item contributes to such an important change in the bill, i.e. that tollvotes will always be assigned with tender invitations, without any careful discussion in the Committee, and without opportunities for stakeholders and relevant institutions to share their views with the committee. The smaller portion counts this, especially where important interests are being discussed with consumers. The smaller section suggests a change in the change in the development of the greater part and is outlined in a special Senate document. Finally, I'd like to say, if we want to employ the interests of the public and consumers in this matter, we will, of course, vote for this change. If we want to compete in business, we'll vote for this change. That's the only thing known, for by paying a vote with the motion of the greater part, unchanged, it is being dropped on the side with an increase in tax gain and a curse on consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to present our committee party here at the General and Education Committee, where we discussed this case on nationalities. This is an proposed adjustment to the law, which includes the need for a secretary's permission to exploit nature and wind power. It is suggested that rural society has more time to determine how national income is spent. It is suggested that this year's completion of the work committee of the Wild Committee will be extended to the end of the work and that the authority to declare national authority will be handed over to the Ministers, for which it is now a normal arrangement and for the people. We discussed only the terms of the bill that conditioned the use of natural images within the country at the permission of a minister. It was found that because of the growth of tourists, we know that there is a high level of pressure on natural spheres in this country, and there is a lot of protection in their use of it. It was widely discussed in the Committee that the term "natural selection " was not sufficiently clear, and therefore the committee feels that this is a valid subject for the proposed total reexamination of the law. That is why we suggest that an adjustment made in the committee's opinion be put out of the bill. There is also another adjustment proposal from the Committee, where we suggest that it be added to the new court, which is as follows: It is permitted, though, to be replaced by a 70 - year - old. After considering the matter, the committee believes that this is a vital point to be met because the case discussed by the Wild Committee is very specialized and important to the experience and knowledge of the members of the committee who have worked on it for as long as possible. That's why we're making this transition. It was made clear in the Committee, both from sources of information and at discussions on the committee, that there is a need for a state of transparency in terms of national resources use and the use of funds. We have reason to believe that the proposed total re-examination of the law will guide the above views as well as that it will include the innovation within the national boundaries authorized by societies. Sign this signature along with the one that stands out here. Councilmen Páll Valur Björnsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnersdótir, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u11	V.E.G. President. I say here on behalf of what? The Economic and Business Committee for Committees (ECCs) with a change in bill proposal to correct the changes in legal requirements for violations of financial markets, etc. It's part of a spell. 1471, No. 622. For more information, please contact the branch office or write to the address listed on page 5 or to the address listed on page 5 of this magazine. 1077, 622th Council case. It is based on the bill of the Committee's initiatives that the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs ordered on 16 June 2014 to review the treatment of violations of financial legislation. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers recommended the case on May 4 and September 1. finished the next day and then went for it. The Economic and Business Committee. The matter is quite large in that it involves many laws that deal with financial markets and changes in existing laws. In order to review the case, members of the Committee met with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Internal Affairs, Department of Economic Affairs, Business Association, Naziq, Iceland's Economic Affairs, the Department of Legal Affairs of Iceland. There were written reviews from the financial organisations, the organizations of the industry that passed in the custody of Iceland's Secret Bank and the National Aggressive Organization. In addition, I would like to note that a comment from a criminal hearing committee was received by the Committee that reported that the committee did not see the reason to give a special report to the Council on the case where a judicial committee had already sent a review to the committee involved in writing the bill. That the main element of this bill is to coordinate and explain the terms of financial violations, reviewing maximum government capital counts and adding authority to determine the government's conduction guilty taking into account the financial benefits of the government. But more is involved, I now go over the subject of the bill and the changes proposed. The bill suggests changes to the financial market laws. First of all, a warrant is issued for judicial action against financial market violations in the following legal categories: No. 131/1997 on the electronic registration of stocks, No. 38/2001, on interest and insurance, No. 161/2002, through a financial company, No. No. 32/2005, the sharing of insurance, No. 33/2005, on the telecommunications of financial services, No. 108/2007, stock trade, No. 110/2007, by Wall Streets, No. 56/2010, about insurance, No. 120/2011, cover payment services, No. 128/2011, the stock market, the investment fund and the retail capital, No. 17/2013, about the treatment and version of the battery. The warrant is in a standard law that will be applied to all the songs I listed here. The principle also includes the stipulation of objective criminal responsibility. Such responsibilities are already available in the case of law No. 87/1992 on currency. Its expressions are also suggested to harmonize with other proposals of the bill of the same hurt. Second, the bill proposes permission to link the budget of the management fines to 10% of the successful last year's staff is added to the following layers: No. 131/1997 on the electronic registration of stocks, No. 161/2002, through a financial company, No. 108/2007, stock trade, No. 110/2007, by Wall Streets, No. 128/2011, the stock market, the investment fund and the retail board. Third, it is suggested that in the same legal categories and well-related fines, the maximum government capital level will be set up in 20 million individuals. K. of 65 million. K. Fourth, it is suggested that the law take up some new features that the SEC should look to the decision of government guilty. Fifth, it is suggested that we be law No. 161/2002, on financial companies, and on law No. 108/2007, on stock exchange, is added to the authority's authority to determine the economic benefits of the offender. Sixth, this adjustment to the law of No. 38/2001, on terms of growth and insurance insurance, to be clearly determined by the SEC to be monitored on the basis of the law of those who are under the law of the law of the law. 89/1998, on official financial surveillance, and the clearness of the law's statute will be increased. Finally, 7th is suggested to protect fines or prisons as long as six years from violating regulations about the limitations of high risks in law No. 161/2002, about a financial firm. As I did, though, there is a number of aspects involved in how many layers of matter are involved. Now I'm going to step toward the goal of the change. The Commission has stated that the main objective of the bill is to strengthen the financial market and to provide protection against violations of financial markets. It also stated that the plan is to adapt the European Court's chemical rights to the extent that he may fall under the EEA Convention's values in terms of law, despite the failure of the induction of legal regulations to be either completed or tolerated as yet did not become part of the agreement. The aim is to improve the development of a financial organisation. On the part of the Commission it was concluded that effective and trustworthy surveillance is absolutely essential to healthy financial markets. The bill aims to make it clear that financial schemes are permitted to be punished for violations of the laws of their operation. At the same time, it is intended to make administrative legislation used because of violations of the financial market more efficient. This bill is sponsoring a warrant for judicial punishment, and now I'm going to discuss it. The Commission reviewed the regulations of the bill intended to ensure that the legislators can be accountable for violations of the laws that apply and that financial legislation will be consistent with this issue. The regulations assume that objective responsibility for legal matters in this area is due to their violations of all custom laws and regulations established on the basis of them. The work of the Committee discussed this arrangement, and numerous examples of comparable responsibilities due to job violations were presented. As assessed by the Committee, this is a normal requirement, i.e. that the legislators are responsible for violations that prove that they are involved. However, unless the criminal requirement is not made, the uniform law on the criminal responsibility of the law is based on Article 19. c general penal law, No. 19/1940. On the one hand, the speaker noted that 19th paragraph does not have full harmony. c Song No. 19/1940 and 4 mg, respectively. Section 16. a Track No. 87/1992, on currency issues, and on the uniform provision to be added in other laws on which the bill changes. So the committee suggests an adjustment in wording of the bill's terms to the criminal responsibility of a legal body in order to achieve such harmony. It also suggests a change in wording designed to sharpen the conditions that both the law and the person can carry a criminal responsibility, not a material change. I came to the beginning of my case that there was an opportunity for surveillance agents to promote administrative fines to finance companies. The bill suggests that such a warrant will be introduced into five law columns in order to re-established government fines due to violations of the law. Such fines can reach up to 10% of the final year of business. Comments to the bill show that a similar authority was submitted by a committee on the budget of high - quality economic laws. who was serving as prime minister and reported in 2006. The following four types of the European Court, which are predicted to be introduced into the EEA Convention on the next loss, include the requirement for the application of the court in well-designed fines. These commands are: Directive 2013/36/EU on the establishment and management of financial organisations, Directive 2014/ESB, which aims to conform to law and administration directives in terms of the stock market and is often referred to as UCITS V, Directive 2014/65/EU on the market for financing, which is referred to as MIFID II, EU Regulation No. 909/2014 for improved stock support in the European Union and central stock registration, the acronym CSD, and is often referred to in this way. The role of the European Commission's joint financial market monitoring organisations is subject to the implementation of the EFTA-station of the EEA Treaty as such has not yet been adopted into the EEA's own agreement. As noted above, though, this is expected to be done soon. Advisor points out that it is advisable to wait with the induction of regulations for repairs until they have been fully introduced into Icelandic rights, in turn, to break the directives for violations of a financial market in connection with their regulations. It is noted, however, that it will take time to achieve complete European rights in the agreed areas and that it is important to limit the problem of temptation that exists in financial companies prefer to work in one EEA State and another because there may be less legal provisions. That's how the penalties stand independently. It does not indicate a violation of certain European obligations but refers to violations of financial laws in this country. The Committee agrees with the latter viewpoint, i.e. that if this is the case, it is not against specific European types, but against the law against the financial market in this country. The Commission also feels that the management of the legislation of legislation with the legislators is expected to have a protective effect and can ensure that they can better achieve equality between parties taking into account very different financial companies' sizes. The bill also suggests increases in literature to fines to individuals in the same law code. It has been noted that despite the dramatic changes in the financial markets of the past year, the guilt has not been revised for a considerable period of time. The Committee agrees with the bill's aim for increased efficiency and protection guidelines that it is advisable to raise administrative fines to individuals in line with the proposal of the bill. Religious and efficient surveillance is very important at this market, and the FEC monitoring of financial companies is based on law No. 38/2001. The Committee discussed surveillance and referred to Article 5. The bill that recommends that the SEC monitor members. 1.mg. 2.g. law, on official financial surveillance, on legal requirements No. 38/2001, interest and insurance. On the part of one reviewer, it was pointed out that the terms of this law may have been unnecessary in view of the role and duties of the SEC under the law of No. 87/1998, on official financial monitoring. It is considered by the Commission that this monitoring role will certainly be carried out by the current law; however, it is advisable to place any doubt on these matters, especially on nonstatutory issues. The committee points out that in general comments to the bill, it is stated that approval is required to complete a case involving a administrative ticket due to violation of law No. 87/1992 on currency issues, unless the major fracture is major and penalties need to be applied. In this context, the Commission insists that the right is to use government fines as a result of violation of the currency law, which is not considered to be major regardless of the agreement of the guilty party. However, the late bank has the authority to end matters because of offenses that are not considered to be major with approval of the advocates, such as Article 15. b Song No. 87/1992. The committee also calls attention to the comments made at 13. The bill says that the factors proposed to consider guilty decisions are based on a 70th degree. Directive 2014/65/ESB and refer to MIFID II, which is essentially 2 mg. 72. g. the same protocol. Since the end of the bill, the committee has discussed a bill for changes in law No. 161/2002, about a budget company on deck. 99.0, 571st case, and accepted modified term use to 30. g. Their law. This indicates that this change in Article 10. the bill that the term "high risk commitments " will be used instead of the term" high risk simply. " A respectable president. Now I have considered the main objective of the bill and its subject and its corrective corrections, and the committee felt that it was right to respond. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: 1st We're on 1st. The bill is added: or another person who works in his ways. 2. 2nd matter. Paragraphs 2, 7, 13, 15, and 19. put it this way: The fines laid on the law can take away from 500 of you. K. To 800 million. K. but may be greater than or up to 10% of the total using the last approved annual bill of the bill, or 10% of the last approved kit account if a legislator is part of the kit and a fraction is provided for the benefit of another legal entity in the kit or another legal entity in the kit has gained the benefit of the fracture. 3. 2nd matter. paragraph 3. Gr., 2nd matter. 3 mg Yeah, y-yeah, y-yeah, y-ye-ye-ye-yo. and Second issue. paragraphs 9, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21 the bill says: If the attorney for law, his employee, or others in his ways in a criminal way violates these laws or regulations based on them in the operation of the legal body, he may be punished, as well as guilty by the attorney. 4. Instead of the words, a great deal of risk to 1 0 grapple. come on: high risk binding. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the Commission during the progress of the situation. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, a member of the hearing on the committee, supports the hearing. They'll be writing under the committee's opinion, plus me the following. Councilmen at the Council of June 22, 2015: Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Committee, Arni Páll Árnason, advance, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, Sigmi Á. Andersen, Steigurson J. Sigfússon, and Brá Konráðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to correct a mistake that I made in a review of a committee party more than anything else. The Economic and Business Committee. I read up then why. Senators who sign it for the change in legal requirements for violations of financial markets made me a mistake when I was about to read a name. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir to tell Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who has no place in the Council. I'm really sorry that I made that mistake, and I corrected them on this one. Of course, it is. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u13	Madam President. In fact, I had assumed that the greater part would measure for its leading party, but it does not seem to be so. I'd like to measure for my upcoming party part of the budget board. We got the highest. Economic and financial secretary to meet with the committee following discussions that were here at the Hall of Congress. It was apparent that the memory of the section on the value of the synonym was valid, and the case was discussed in the Committee again. Based on my share, new labour agreements, tax reductions decisions and emissions policy will have a significant impact on the state's budget over the next few years. Therefore, it is necessary to withdraw the proposal and submit a new and more advanced national budget for 2016-52019. Madam President. We feel that this is a fairly obvious matter, for these are big uncertainty factors that are now possible for some to estimate with the coming years. The minority reiterates the criticism of the government budget set up in the previous committee study. In view of my share, it is not clear what the terms of the head of the budget are tied up, and thus the importance of the programme is not clear. It is easy to question the value of a agreed proposal and to argue that, in fact, it is the determination of a minister of what basis he chooses to lay as the basis for the budgetary bill for 2016. In view of the part's memory, the calculation of income and expenditures must be explained in order to strengthen the proposal and to draw conclusions on the form of the General Assembly Act. Prior to this, the discussion and dispensing of the proposal will not be in the desired format. It is important that, with a clearer suggestion, the council impose problems and standards in the budget that no doubt they should follow. So the smaller section suggests that the matter does not come as a vote for the current council, but it will be submitted again in the fall by a new and clearer plan for the next four years. Madam President. I've got a short time, but I can do another speech if someone talks from here on, which I hope someone will do so that I can come up with something that I feel I have to do before this discussion ends. A greater part of the legal committee is stated in the subsequent committee by permission of a president: The ▪Mei part believes that it is a great strength for the secretary of finance and economics to have an agreed budget from the General Assembly. He has adopted the policy when the discussion with other ministers begins in the budget, which involves more discipline than ever before. ◯ A respectable president. I can truly say that it has a certain strength if it is at its height. The secretary of finance enters the budget with the approval of the council for specific reasons, but I must be quick to ask, due to the uncertainty factors listed in the plan: Why is it the highest level? Is there a connection between financial and economic ministers? I'd like to point out when I was in the Senate business today, I had a word about it. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson Þrsson, speaking of the premise that social security benefits should not increase by more than 1% over inflation during 2016, 2020, and I must be quick to ask: is the highest. For example, if the council does not agree with the financial strategy, is the minister of finance bound by the arrangement, which means that it is also accepted? There is another underlying factor, which is very clear, and it is clearly stated that if the ideal member of the government becomes an increase of more than 2% per year for the next four years, the rates will be resolved. That raise will be cut off. I must ask, is it the highest? Is financial and economic secretary bound to the grounds where the council has agreed to the State budget? These are big questions, Madam President, and I honestly allow myself to doubt it. Councilmen wondered about the message and why it is being tied to the highest force. Financial and economic secretary to create a budget bill for 2016 with the approval of this national budget. Do they know that? Or it can be the highest. Minister only chooses what he goes and what he changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u14	Madam President. I notice that the program shows that there are two leading opinions and that the leading party has been recommended for the smaller section. I'm asking the highest. The president whether it is really such that it should not be measured for the leading party of the greater part. At one time, we had a lot of discussions, pointing out that the basis for the plan was smiling. V.E.G. The secretary of finance agreed that it was at least right for him to meet with a financial committee and discuss the situation. He did so treacherously. Hv. A candidate in the preceding talk has described the conclusion of the memory part, but it is already in the form of a printed program that was distributed that includes more parts of the committee, and I now ask: Should it not be measured?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u15	Madam President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. I'd like to call for a senior speaker to come in here to come over here and give a little more of the legal committee and give us the opportunity to ask on a particular subject that we feel is vague. That's very important, because we're not talking about any small business, Mrs. President, we're talking about a state financial programme that's supposed to be up to budgeted for 2016-52019. It is of great importance that we bring in an overseer and answer the questions we have to ask. I'm asking, Madam President, that if there is no contact with the Commission or the chairman of the Commission or any other member of the greater legal committee, this case will be delayed until there is a member of a larger legal committee that can review the leading committee and answer our questions about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u16	Madam President. I agree with what was said here and I don't think it's unnatural, the case's in the second round., let's not forget it. There's only two discussions about a government budget, not three, so it's later. It is very special that the chairman of a budget board, which often talks extensively about a number of economic matters in the past, cannot see how it is possible to be here, and to bring the committee opinion that came into play after the case was taken back to the committee on the request of the section. I'm asking, Madam President, if the President is planning to bring in the Chairman of the Committee or someone who can answer questions. I'll agree that we just have to keep the case, because here are some big questions, as was said here, and it's a huge case for many years. In spite of the fact that the greater part believes that this is such a similar document, as indicated here, it is a constantly changing environment, of course, the fundamental presidents of the underground are controlling the way the government intends to handle matters for the next few years. It is not surprising that the chairman of a financial committee or someone who feels that he or she answers it and the questions asked here. So I think that the subject should be called to the discussion or to postpone the discussion until after people have finished, but not so that it is not possible to give a second speech, if so, after the majority opinion has been given or its own speech. I just want to get back into the matter, because there are, of course, certain things that need to be asked about and, in view of the fact that I made up my mind to talk about the work of the Parliament about 80 billion mortgages, although only about 70 billion are reported in a U.S. report. Minister, you put a question mark on it when your next year's budget plan shows virtually no formal structure, such as an investment that is very limited. In remuneration and social security, an increase in excess of inflation is expected only 1%, but at the same time the government has put less than 6 billion directly into the pockets of people who did not have or do not own debts today in their houses. Of course, they existed at the time when this standard was in the years that created the right to pay down debt. But we are faced with the fact that people who pay money taxes on pure property of 75 or 100 million, are getting considerable sums of money from this correction at the same time as this national financial programme, as I said, does not really show that a land hospital can be built. It does not demonstrate an improvement in social security. It does not show how to pay down the pension debt, whether to do so by business change, or by borrowing, etc. There are a lot of things in this program that really don't work. What disappointed me was that when we had a place here at the top of the word. The minister of finance, and the case returned to the committee, there were some factors that could have, not that could have, they did, they explained things more than when the plan arose. But members and ministers prefer not to make any changes, which are very special. I agree with what. The head of the minority opinion, of course, is very special that the majority of agents should submit this plan to the future. A humble, respectable president, despite the fact that all presumptions and circumstances later had light that gave the government the opportunity to adjust the plan. Instead, you say: It's just a constantly changing document. If so, it is not surprising to ask: " Wait, what must the minister of finance do? ' Why is he tied up? It's not acceptable. It's not in the spirit of the law. The Trinity and the law recommend things that are different from what is being suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u17	A respectable president. At one time, there was a very good discussion here at the Assembly Hall on a budget plan, and a number of things were presented. It is so true in this matter that many others see eyes better than eyes. We got the highest. After the discussion, the Secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson is meeting us, and I thank him for coming to the meeting and explaining his point of view. I agree with what's been going on here. You expected a national budget to change something in view of the fact that some of what it says will not really be held. I think this plan is too hairy, too many uncertainty factors and too many irregular joints. There's been talk of this as a living document. This is also the case with the laws of the law. It's okay that there's life in such cards, but it's so alive that I really think it's enough. If we're going to have a plan for a long time, we're going to have to try to fix everything we can. Of course, we're aware that things can change, but if we're going to assume that everything is uncertain and there's no way in which we can't really let these plans go, they're gonna be a bit meaningless. I realize this is the first attempt to make a financial program. The minister acknowledged it. It will likely be better done next time. It is stated in the leading party that the proposal was not submitted, but it could have been improved. I think you're right. I want to thank you for the fine discussion that still took place in the Senate Hall. The number of members involved in the discussion is very important, and in fact, I noticed a number of problems that I thought the greater part and the minister would correct, but it did not. I hope that the leading speaker of the leading committee will then come to the Senate Hall and account for his opinion. I'd like to answer him. Otherwise, I agree with the comments that have been made here by the leading member of the leading committee of the minority. We've worked well together, and actually there's no more to say at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u18	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a good talk, Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit This matter has been discussed quite a long time. It's very sad that the majority opinion has not been able to get here. I believe there's an example here in the story that there's a committee opinion that no one would like to recommend. The damage involved is that it seems that the greater part of the committee would admit that we, who wanted this case to be brought in to the committee to discuss it more correctly, were right for us. In fact, it is recognized in the majority view that a variety of tips observed in the smaller parts were useful. That is literally true. It is also said that two aspects of the budget may need to be adjusted, one on the other, to the conclusion of collective agreements, and that the state is unsure of what measures will be undertaken to prepare emissions. Now, as for the latter, there is a plan. She's a two-way. It is, on the one hand, a stable tax can be used in a controlled contract. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has told you how much stability will be made. We know that each one of them is going that way, that's what's happened to them. It is clear that this is where the amount can be used to cover the debt of the state. It is also clear that these amounts are to be paid next year. That's why I'm asking. In view of this, is it not clear that the budget is in such a great deal as far as it still is concerned? The question is, does it not have to be taken into a budget once again to consider the matter from the current situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u19	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I don't know, but actually there was a chance to change the plan so far. I think it's getting a little bit more so with this government budget that it's a bit small, it's a plan, we're doing this for the first time, and we're going to learn how to make a mistake, that it's a projection. We do not view it as much in the smaller parts as in the greater parts. I realize that it's definitely a challenge to bring one of these for the first time. When I looked at the Senate arrangement in my day, about the budget plan, I felt as if I were reading the little product that brings the budget bill. She was just some kind of a standard with vague plans for the future. The seas certainly take a bar in the account. One major factor in uncertainty is the interest rate of the state's budget, which is enormously high. If the idea is to pay off debt, which hopefully will be, this plan will be affected significantly, for there will be more compromise. Paying off debt can reduce the cost of interest each year. Is it to be used to subsidize pension commitments? It is said in this program of putting 5 billion in payment of pension bonds. In fact, I did not understand from the plan whether to borrow it or to get some rest. I just want to be completely honest. There's a lot very vague here on this plan. I feel that the more part takes this as a fairly small piece of paper that will not even tie a minister's hands to the budget in the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u20	Madam President. Of course, a financial committee must be problematic. Hv. A senator enjoys the privilege of working hard beyond me. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and her underboss of the budget board and knows these matters much better. It may well have developed in such a way that a great deal of the budget board has become the case, as it were. A senator put it, a document that no one makes of anything particularly great. I don't want to be that way about it. I don't think it's allowed to look at things that way. The one of us who addressed the long discussion that all agreed that a national financial program was an important tool that helped the Commission each time to plan and us at the General Assembly to support the Commission. Because of some sort of loose conduct at the head of the budget or possibly because the company doesn't take a notice of the set, I don't think we who sit here in the Senate and are supposed to give the Commission the money and the rest of it shouldn't be left to us. It is clear that the key sizes were uncertain. However, more certain is now achieved, e.g. The smell of collective agreements, as well as the extent to which the stable tax affects the state's interest rates. Today, the worn - out ships do not intend to go on the stable tax pathway. They'll never pay a stable tax. They will rely on a stable supply. They receive a discount of 400 billion from the stable tax. V.E.G. The secretary of finance says that this is the way 400 billion come in. We know that this will happen next year. For now, only 160 billion people have been found to pay off the debt of the State. [[The president calls.]] It creates at least some room for interest costs, which are important and lacking in this program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u21	A respectable president. Yes, we do not control how the greater part feels about this matter. It contains endless uncertainty issues such as this schedule, which speak of 3% growth of S-labelled medicinal products. I mean, I don't know, then it's just that it can't go beyond these 3%? This is not realistic. We know that. Is it bound by a minister so we won't go over these 3%? There is really no plan for the construction of a land hospital. Everything's out of the air. There appears to be no intended strategy except for the design of a treatment core. It seems that he should not be built on the next day. Same with other investments. Funding has been an uncertainty factor for a long time. I'd say there's still some uncertainty around it, and I'll be there until we see how things work out. I don't know if it can be taken back into the committee and brought back with this plan, if it can be delayed until the fall. I just can't quite figure out how the work force is. What we can do is put our criticism into place and call for a prominent speaker of the greater part to come here and represent him. One thing that was not good in this case was that we had a meeting with the Ministry of finance before the matter was brought to the Senate Hall. Then there was so much work on other matters that we did not actually reach the Ministry of finance after that until we finally got the highest power. A financial minister who was very important and very good, but it was a little late. Our work on this turned out to be more than we thought. There were questions that we did not understand until we began discussing the matter. I would've wanted it to have been taken more seriously. It would have been very good if the matter had been discussed. But if we take this back into a committee at this point, I don't know. Of course, the majority must want to change their synoptic proposal. That's what we tried to get him to do, but we couldn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize at the outset for not being here when this case was arranged. As is evident, many days are waiting to be recommended by members of the committee or matters, but they are quickly taken over the council. That's exactly what happened after lunch, I was doing personal business away from the General House. But here I have come to recommend a body of committees more than a part of the legal committee. Under the committee, you write along with me. Councilmen of Guðlaugur Þórðarson, Willum Þórsson Thorhsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Karl Garðarsson, and Vallechur, Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir. I would like to say, in the beginning, because it seems that the lesser part decided to make some political assessment from this budget plan, that the situation at the council of this council has been so bad as to proceed on July 1 and it is being a financial program that was to be taken up long ago and taken over for its next budget work. I would like to say, before they continue to believe that the 2016 budget is now being completed, and it will be submitted after two months, on the second Tuesday of September. I don't really understand why it's being blown out and talking about how unrealistic plans are being built. This was really a zero point, like the highest. The secretary of finance saw this decree because it's new, and they're complaining that the matter is unconventional. This is a brand-new, respectable president, because it was put into the Senate, it's a test drive on this arrangement. I've wondered about it in this chamber that if the bill on government finance sometime becomes the law, the smaller part stopped it in this council winter, then it is decided that if there is to be a Congress hearing proposal for a state-of-the-art budget, in fact a much more precise budget than in the Senate, then financial policy should be developed spring and finish at spring, it should be set up in every frame and level, but, as the situation has been at the council of this council, I doubt that the Council is prepared to achieve exactly what it involves. I'm not sure how things have worked out for the winter. I must say this, a respectable president, for the council cannot be passed on by the law that states the other and this treatment, and that it requires the execution of the Commission to submit to the council, if the council is so completely unable to accept and enforce them in the council, accept the votes of Congress, or otherwise bring a case before the council. It is July 1st, and this is certainly not the only case that has occurred in time because of the language and speech that has taken place here. There's been a lot of talk for five days about the President's conference board, about five hours a day, about the President's meeting board. If all programs are abused in this way, how can these matters be continued at the council? It is shocking how this meeting has been conducted, such as without logical support, except for them to use more part of Congress abuse. Now I'm going to review this committee opinion. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs proposed this resolution and went to the budget on April 28th. As I went over earlier, this is the first time that this kind of suggestion is made before the General Assembly, with which it is being fulfilled in the 25th chapter. track No. 55/1991, of the General Assembly. Six. 25. The law is to recommend a proposal for the Council, no later than April 1 each year, for the resolution of the main exchange of budgets for the next budget next year as well as a paper on the change in the state's revenue. The proposal should follow a budget for the next three years. That's where I'll review the law that says this is my duty. A respectable president. Right away. All members of the Parliament are changing their terms in this direction, with responsibility and obligation. It can be said that the situation here is being thwarted when this initial project is run through the council for the first time with a variety of utods and outbacks. What will this be like when it becomes legal, as the bill on public financial matters points out? Will members of Congress be prepared to accept that responsibility and be required to discuss it in a grammatical way or not? This is a question we have to leave in this summer, which is fortunately there. The committee has also discussed a bill to legalize public financial matters, because of the circumstances. paritaprevir St. Pétursdóttir's daughter was complaining about workloads on a financial committee. A financial committee successfully handled all these matters. There was a complaint that this synopsis proposal had not been given enough discussion on the budget. I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to point it to my father's house. First, a financial committee was to speed up because it was up to make public financial bills legal and at the same time administering this proposal for the beginning of the summer, which is based on engagement laws. You thought it was possible for the council to take these matters in order, but the fate of the official financial bill is that they should wait for the fall so that they can be brought back into conflict, and this matter is being settled on June 30, 2015, when this council decision was to be approved for long ago. The building up of this strategy is in a way that accounts for the national and fiscal activities used by the current government. • reviewing the criteria and criteria for invasive development and identifying a wide range of uncertainty factors that can have a major impact on the plan. It shows what has been on the line for so long, there are many uncertainty factors in the country's economy when this proposal is prepared. Then I'm referring to the workforce position, and I'm talking about disposal. Hv. In March of this year, officials of the government know very well that these two important issues in Icelandic society were not known. It would be very irresponsible for the national secretary of finance to bring a Congress resolution on a budget based on enormous expectations that could not be fulfilled. A respectable president. I support the current government's policy to be with modest plans and not to be spending on material matters, but to be more successful in the national structure, it will bring national resources with greater resources and with a further and faster debt reduction in the state's budget. Enough is enough, though, for as shown in this piece on page. 2 The Icelandic State Fund has given no more than 580 billion just to grow from the 2008 - 580 billion bank collapse. Everything in foreign currency that we have more or less to borrow. So it is time to clean up the money and start paying fast off the debt of state. This national budget estimates that the proportion of total stocks of domestic product will be reduced by 68% by the end of 2015 and will fall below 50% by the end of 2019. This is a wonderful vision of the future, and I have full faith in the fact that it is possible to live with the vision of the future in the Senate because it has now been revealed how well the government has been able to deal with the swelling of the old banks. It's also positive, but this reduction also results in and perhaps most of the growth of land production, that the debt value decreases less than 10% in the years 2016-52019 as predicted, but as I went over earlier, any possibility that the debt could be reduced even faster. I'm not going to go over this committee opinion specifically because I'm not going to delay the passing of time from the Senate itself. The criteria and prospects of the income plan and the remuneration schedule are discussed, particularly on the income side. A good economic growth is expected to continue over the next four years, allowing room to reduce the breakdown of the tax system along with the reduction of taxes in homes and employment. There is also a further reduction in insurance costs and a review of customs. There will continue to be plans for the reduction and change in income taxes and income taxation of individuals. So, the expenses are broken at the pay gate by economic exchange, i.e. in income expenditures, capital expenditures, transactions, maintenance and investment. Then there's a nice table, an overview chart on page 8. 2. People can approach this point on the Generalist Web site, and I encourage people to see how this will lead to the development of 2019 C.E. A greater part of the budget board feels strongly that the next year's management plan is going on and that the basis for the 2016 budget bill is based on this national financial programme as it was written at the time of the writing, because so many positive factors have been implemented since it was written. I also rejoice at the positive prospects that came out of the 2014 last budget, and a state accountant was reporting what was spectacularly successful and even more material material to be left over than expected. In the greater part, we suggest that from now on there will be a step further in the exchange of budget frames and not only replacements for economic exchange but also for each Ministry and Their Case Groups as it is, if this year's law on public finances were to be passed on by the law for a year's tournament, then the highest will be. The secretary of finance gives the synopsis of this material, and a new evaluation is presented at the beginning of the next year, and it will be given what these frames are and how they are divided. It was not possible in this initial test here, for it was not strictly laid down in the council. We, in the greater part, suggest that the proposal be agreed unsatisfactory, as we emphasize that this is only a matter of locality when the proposal was made and submitted at the council. Since then, it's been quite a few weeks, so we suggest that this proposal be agreed on as it were. We also agree that there is a lot of work to be done in both the poverty and the Ministry of finance that has to do with providing a bill for 2016, then we can see how the arrangements will be handled in the budget and how 2016 will come about. Let me remind you again, this is a zero analysis. This synoptic proposal must be legally updated every year, and when as much success is achieved in terms of terms as has been achieved in the two years since this government took over, there are, of course, more rapid and frequent changes that will be made in the next Senate resolution of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u23	Madam President. Large uncertainty factors such as a new labour agreement and decisions on tax reductions and emissions policy have been clarified to some extent and have a major impact on the government budget in the coming years. In our memory, we've said that we're going to take this council resolution, because it's a responsible part when a Congress hearing has been accepted as a pact proposal. Councilmen know what they have agreed to and why they are going to bind the highest force. Minister and chief. Government. A greater part of the legal committee is stated in the subsequent committee by permission of a president: The ◯Mei part believes that the Ministry of Economics is not yet equipped to evaluate the above - mentioned effects, i.e. fiscal agreements decrease taxes and hold free, the proposal before being overstepped at the General Assembly, but aim not to deviate from the policies established in the fiscal budget. Because I thought I had a speech. The senator does not have a clear answer to this simple question, and I ask for a simple answer: Are the policies on pay and prices on p. Thirty-five, one-third, the dresser policy for government employees and the other, for the sake of social security, is something of the highest value. For 2016, will the secretary of finance be confined to the production of a budget bill? It is the policy of more than one body of legal committees to talk about at the top of the page. 2 of the Committee to Re-Elect?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u24	A respectable president. In the beginning, I'd like to say that it's free to bring the changes they want into whatever case they want. It is being criticized that the majority of the items did not bring a change in the budget. I've read the Committee's opinion of my share of the legal committee. It does not contain one single adjustment form. So I don't understand why criticism of this synonym is so loud. Regarding what the senator says at the top of the page. 2 then I'll tell you, it's a status set. It would be very irresponsible for me to begin expressing myself now the increases that I had. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir said that we know that the boat facing BHM is not safe to rock. As long as it's not yet been negotiated with the staff of state who are in a strike and who are now under contract, I don't want to talk to everyone about these matters. In terms of senior citizens and disability, the senator knows how their growth is under law, I'm referring to the social security laws. There is a pre-calculative formula and these groups have an increase compared to the consumer calculus. I haven't seen any assumptions or calculations on what it's like. Wait a minute. Councilmen turning questions about these two groups to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. I think the top one. Minister will be here during an unsubstantiated question period, because the case is simply not on my level and I don't want to be talking here about something that gets so wrong, that would be very irresponsible of me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u25	Madam President. Hv. The chairman of a financial committee does not stop surprised. I'd like to start by less. A senator suggests that this case is not advising now but that it will be pulled back and done better. This is the case with interest that the election is being adopted precisely, to increase the pay of government employees more than 2% of the total inflation will be cut in return. It is a suggestion to make for the council later on today and why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir pretends she can't talk about it - I didn't understand her properly. But this is a proposal made before the council that is either approved or not. The same goes for social security benefits. It literally expects us to cut down 69 C.E. improve social security because there is expected to be a 1% increase in excess of inflation, while 2% improvement in remuneration over inflation and a 2.5% inflation target. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Hv. Congress officials have to decide what they will do. [[The president calls.]] This suggests that this council proposal will remain unconvinced. The chairman of the budget board has no idea what she's about to agree on later. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u26	A respectable president. I don't know what this is all about. But the senator, like everyone else, knows that the general labour market must first be negotiated before the pay of government employees is increased. And that's what happened, and the evolution of these chicken-collar talks. Right away. A senator says that there's some sort of shift proposal hidden in the minority opinion, so I can't see it. It just says that this plan cannot be discussed, so I now refer it to the Fathers like something else, a respectable president. In fact, all matters were to be delayed until autumn, and this is clearly one of those issues. But I am stressing that this case is going through here so that we can begin to focus on the issues that face the present and the future, that we are not always splattering here in some old tire ride. The matter was to be long removed from the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u27	A respectable president. I wasn't complaining about working on a financial committee, I simply said that it had been a lot to do with the committee, and it's just a good thing, so I thought it was a little uncool. But I'd like to ask you why. The chairman of the budget board whether it agrees with me in that this plan is rather or very vague. There are no frames. It is not putting a frame around lawsuits or even a Ministry Department that could be a good way of helping with the existing budget and the budget that we receive in the fall, that the amount of education, health, and so forth has been determined. I understood that there should be frames in the synopsis proposal, which did not occur. I think it's too vague, but I'd be curious to know if. A senator agrees with me. I also feel uncomfortable if we cannot plan for two months, as is indicated in this case, how will we work in the spirit of the law on public finances when it is accepted? It specifically states that we look ahead, that we have plans that will last even five years in advance. But here we have a document, which is actually almost out - of - date a few weeks after it is submitted. I don't like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u28	A respectable president. Either the senators are so tired here during this spring session or they sit in the hall with their ears closed. This question is exactly what I covered in my speech. It was about how to plan ahead and how it will be when government funds become legal. A respectable president. I'm not worried about that, i.e. if the senators can get their shit together and pass matters through the council. It doesn't mean to be thinking about making the bill of official law a law if it's to be with that layer of work as it has appeared to us here in spring, just impossible, because the main financial debate is to move forward into the spring and then to take the second pass in the fall, as the speech has been in winter, a respectable president. Over the past five days have been spoken about the President's conference board, and then the council is not prepared to cope with such changes. It's just to admit, and everyone has to keep their eyes open for the way it is. Then the senator asked about the frame and why not make changes. I also reviewed in my speech that it was not in this council resolution, as it would be discussed in the bill on public finances, which has not become a law and was originally recognized as not to be. It is reviewed in the Commission opinion. It is reviewed in the Senate itself, it has been reviewed in all my districts, last now, in my lead discussion with the case. Now it seems to me that either members of the council are so tired of being here and having a filancy, or they just sit in the room with closed ears, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u29	A respectable president. I asked him why. A senator would not consider that to be beneficial, whether it would be good to have the frames. I know they're not, they've been talked over repeatedly, but there'd be a lot of improvement, I'd think. Then another. Public financial laws are not about allowing matters through the council at a fixed pace. It's all about planning, maybe mainly in the council and counsellors, if we look ahead. I have no faith in the fact that if I am honest, the council will begin to feel awkward, so I don't fully understand the discussion. Maybe in the end, one question. This program has therefore been considered for the reasons why the minister is bound, and the rate of 3% of the S-marked medicinal product is expected. What does that mean? What will increase the growth rate? In what way does this bind, e.g. A health minister? What if the growth becomes greater? [[The president calls.]] Will he be any bigger? What is the significance of these phrases in the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u30	A respectable president. The Senator still doesn't seem to realize what I'm going to do here, because I'm concerned that public finance bill will become a law. The council cannot be handled as we have seen in this winter of Congress. Already two more important matters have come into the council, the Parliament's resolution proposal for a financial budget with a lengthy pace, as well as the implementation of public financial laws. As it is now, I appreciate it so that the council is not available to deal with these two big issues. And then I'm not going to discuss it here anymore. What the senator is likely to refer to when talking about, in the opinion of the management body, that here there are certain factors unscheduled, that translates in Icelandic, and I, as the chairman of a legal committee, submits to a recent report by a state accountant, that financial legislation must not be used to the resources available to allow those members to be within the budget and we know what it means. [[The president calls.]] It is either cutting or then some sort of profit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u31	Madam President. First, you might ask yourself, " Do I have a judicial proposal to fulfill the law? ' Hv. The chairman of a legal committee speaks extensively about discipline and careful management, the litigation of government opposition, and the passing of the matter. If nothing has ever been changed in the program, it doesn't matter whether it's accepted today or two months ago because the government and the weather. The legal committees have had the opportunity to change it. In view of the fact that the majority of the committee's decisions, despite the facts on the board, are not to be changed, this will make the plan less unimproved today than when it was submitted. So it does not matter in itself. Hv. The chairman of the budget board has strong opinions on most things involving financial and financial programmes and such. Remuneration in Pension Binding is expected and is spoken of as 5 billion. I'd like to ask the chairman of a legal committee about how she understands it: Will the state funds be borrowing or will be taken away in the form of a management plan at any time, i.e. each year from the start of paying off or paying on these pension bonds? They are as if we know very much and need to find out something about them. On the one hand, I want to ask why. A senator of the S-labelled medicinal products we've been discussing, and developing her attitude toward this matter: Does she think we've achieved some sort of balance or is there some cumulative need that we need to meet with increased donations? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u32	A respectable president. Once again, this case should have been long gone from the council. The matter is with the council. The majority of the budgetary committees saw no reason to make adjustments in this synonym. I reiterate that there is no change in this so-called evil case, as the government calls it, from her. Is it not a minimum, more dignified president, when a huge criticism comes out of people of all these matters, to make them, at any rate, an attempt to make adjustments in the way of things and to try to get them approved, to look for support in these refinements here in the council halls? As I say, it is possible to stand here and cry in public squares that everything is impossible and shredding and tearing down, and then come with no suggestions. It is now minimal when criticism is so strong that it is tried to bring something in to improve the so - called bad things in the opinion of the government. There is nothing to be found, not a single thing, but, as I say, two of the four political groups just returned out of the government, and it now went as it went on. They're here asking about the pension debt of public employees. I have had a lot of concern since I began to look at these matters when I sat down at the council, how tall they are, up to 500 billion. It is the policy of this government, as reflected in this national budget plan, to start paying on these pension debt commitments, because it did not do the last government it, then they just got pushed on the line and nothing was done about it. It is now being addressed, but even this public address is critical. I have to answer this with the S-labelled medication in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u33	A respectable president. Hv. It seems that a senator is discouraged from answering simple questions. I wasn't criticizing that pension bonds should be paid. I asked: " Does the senator think he needs to borrow, or is this to be taken out of business? Will this be taken from 5 billion each year in terms of paying off debt? It was a very nice question, so I refused that I was protesting it. Good work and planning are one of the things the senator talks about. I ask: Does she feel that she has a good plan to do this in this way when it is possible that this is not going to work out? The minority is here with a good prior committee opinion where suggestions are made. They are included in the criticism presented there. This includes making comments that say: This is not sufficient. This need to take a closer look and come to a conclusion. It is, of course, a national financial program, but it does not change that the smaller tips of the section are contained in the hidden items it presents. Hv. A senator mentioned that we have let things happen. [[The president calls.]] Of course it isn't so, Mr. Honorable President, that we are being pushed into this position by discussing a matter as important as I believe that the senator thinks this is a national financial program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u34	A respectable president. Unfortunately, there are no votes for committee opinion at the council. There are votes for the changes made on the council documents, so they say. You can't find that in Congress papers on this matter. [[Up front.]] I'm going to go over this one more time, trying to explain in English what you're doing. Contracts have been obtained to demand. They have two options. Once this agreement is concluded and these issues will be passed through the council, the annual interest rate of the state budget will likely be reduced to about 353/440 billion. They are about 85 billion a year, unacceptablely high. When this is accomplished, there will be room for a state fund of 35 to 45 billion to set aside funds for basic services, such as the S-labelled medicinal products, such as health care, such as airports, like transportation, in order to meet the lack of transportation. I hope I explained it here once and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u35	A respectable president. Of course, it's impossible to get back up here, although there was no meaning now to speak in this matter of particular importance. When the chairman of the budget board uses big words as she likes to do, a list of smaller parts for what he seems to know little, and that he doesn't have any suggestions or such, of course, it has to be discussed here. What I quoted earlier and expressed in my opinion are tips in the form of a suggestion that was placed on the palm of the palm of the hand but chose not to do. Hv. A senator claims that we can only offer specific suggestions in a financial programme in an effort to get them approved. Of course, we tried to influence the course of the matter immediately during the discussion of the committee. It didn't work any more than it had been possible to bring some adjustments to the Senate Hall, which the greater part would then have taken away. The plan seems to have been submitted to meet the legal obligation and the Congress, but not to keep it. It's as if it never stood for her to think that this was some document that the minister could use for some kind of work. This, of course, is rather harsh and ill - treated, since such plans need to be made. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee said that this was the first time the government budget had been submitted. That's not true. From 2012 onward, this name is actually called a formal document, reminding me that it is being kept in place. There are uncertainty factors in there. Some of us can control, and others can't, as it goes and happens. Therefore, when it became obvious that it could not be felt in any way, we felt that there was reason to try to update it and make it a law to make it at least a decent and beautiful thing, for it is not the way it happens here. I find it quite amazing to listen to the way the chairman of a financial committee talks to us and then tell the committee that good planning is important and that all the underlying information and everything else must be done well. Then she completely opposes this fundamental plan for the next year. I don't think I'm allowed to understand that. I think I'm quite intelligent and understand in itself what this plan is supposed to do. It is quite reckless to say that such major factors have been negotiated and that at once next year or the next year, there will be a total of 3,35,440 billion distances. I really hope that we can reduce the interest - bearing debt of state funds, but I wouldn't want to reach so far as to claim that what is going on in these early steps can happen in the way I feel it would be. The chairman of the budget committee talks about it. It seems, in some way, that if the proposal had been accepted, so much would be solved. We have personally discussed on a budget that requires a great change of mind. And despite some rule, we know that it would not be carried out completely, no more than what we have in our hands now, or the financial laws we have to follow, they are repeatedly broken, unfortunately. Of course, we do not want to, but we do. I have felt that the directors of this government claim that almost all of the world's problems are solved just because the new government bill is legally established. I don't believe in it that much. But there's a box that's nice, and I'm sorry that he's been taken out of trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u36	Madam President. As we have seen in the discussions, there are extremely large uncertainty factors in this non-communicative arrangement, that are left behind, and as such, that there are certain uncertainties. But now we have a bargain deal. This contract is one of the uncertainty factors. There are, of course, similar, but apparently differently calculated rates from the collective agreements, which are followed by the effects of the next year's financial expenditure. There are major factors that are not addressed, and this is why a smaller percentage of the legal committee has suggested this, both of the Committee at the Supreme Committee. Financial and economic ministers and in their subsequent committee party, that the matter does not come to the attention of the current council, but will be submitted when these major factors can be considered more carefully. According to Congress, it should be submitted, that doesn't say anything about payment. We in the smaller part of the budget are going to have a complete understanding that here are the big uncertainty factors that can be justified in not allowing a political arrangement to go so incompletely for payment. But that is not what it is. Financial and economic ministers and the majority of the legal committees want them. They suggest that the synopsis proposal will remain unconvinced. I want, with President's permission, to read it. Council figures out, cr. 6 mg. 25. track No. 55/1991 on the General Parliament, that the government complies with national budget policies prior to 2016-52019 according to the following overview of the proposed development and debt development that will establish a government revenue programme and the core budget replacement (brow) for the 2016 budget and for the next three years, based on the pre-sets established by the State budget. This is what will be applied to votes. Then come the setting, and that is the tenth, on page 18. 24 is referred to as a variety of uncertainty and risk factors. We must ask: Is it exhaustive? That's what's at the top of it. The Secretary of Economics and Economics isn't tied up? It speaks of collective agreements. It speaks of the expansive state responsibilities of the Subcommittee Penitentiary of Public Personnel, the A Company's insurance status, and is referred to as responsibilities for several other parties, such as Land relics, graffiti, Farice, and RuV. It is one of the uncertainty factor, the national and regional markets growth fund, and then the loss of income or counter-requisite measures for economic traumas such as fishing failures, disorders or recession in tourism services, etc. These are the uncertainty factors listed, and in one place there is talk of emissions of capital resources. We must say, who will vote for this synonym: These are the points we don't have to look particularly at, but we should look at other policy points, as more of the legal committees stress in their leading party, that they are not disfellowshipped from the policy points presented in the State Department. Now, Madam President, I want to point out that it is on page. In the 35 State budget, which is to be agreed that I receive a later date, it is said that the pay policy on the remuneration of a government employee should be that if the increase in pay is more than 2% in excess of the inflation is to be cut down. In this way, there are expected to be pay increases within the budget, but increases beyond those required by the appropriate means to reduce pay costs, such as contracting, number of employees, or the level of work, and the like. Thus, it is said: If there is greater than 2% in a year, the government will be cut down in return. It has the largest mail and support from the health system and the school system. Of course, major questions and important questions are that members of the Parliament, when they decide, realize that they are agreeing to this and tie their hands to the highest degree. Minister when they create the budget bill for 2016. The same goes for social security benefits. I feel that, although there are many other factors, this is the two major issues that are very clear as the policy of this government, i.e. Keeping those who have to rely on benefits down to those who are less experienced than others. They're to be kept in a poverty trap. That's how this case is being thought, and that's, a respectable president, totally unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] And once again, if the senators agree to this, they agree to go against the 69th par. Act on social security. [[The president calls.]] I hope so. Councilmen, senators know this, and they realize it, of course, there is only one senator here in the hall. þm. Vigdís Hauksdótttir, and I know she doesn't understand. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u37	Madam President. It's always fun when it's hard. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir ran short of his feet into the conference hall. During the last days, we have been discussing matters involving the financial affairs of the State. Hv. A senator began his case saying that she was sorry that she had not come here to measure up to the committee views because she had a purpose in town. I'm sure it's a valid apology. However, it has been that way during the last days, when she has come here to give her big speeches, and they have had much to do with it. A senator's always had speed on his tail. I remember that earlier this week, when people spoke to her, she ironed out of the hall. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That may well be the problem. A senator who calls up here during a radio interview, I don't know anything about it. I always like it when it rains. There's a senator in the press. [[I'm telling you.]] It's always inexplicable. I think this discussion has done a great deal. Hv. In fact, a senator agrees with that in his remarkable afterlife, even though she chose not to read it here and does not mention it in her speech. The latter article says that the majority believe that the number of good points made in our discussion of the proposal was made. At the same time, it is simply agreed to the critical point of the memory of the section, which was observed at the previous visit, that it would have been better to submit the proposal for review and, as said, by permission of the president, it would have been possible to improve the processing of the case. In case of a moment. A senator would have conducted his committee as expected and handled this case, such as other important matters, seeking the opinion and counselling as we always do with all major issues, all of this would have been necessary and static would have been unnecessary. Then she would have been pointing out what we have been finding to find that of people she is most likely more interested in than in the members of the government. Hv. In fact, in his speech, a member of the body said in his own hand that it was two things that made it difficult to put aside this first financial program so that most things were well slided and thrown about. The two, on the other hand, are unscrupulous agreements, as she said, specifically referring to public employees, and the fact that laws have not been passed on that are needed to relieve financial problems. There's some misunderstanding going on with the good chairman of the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It's been past what happened. A senator that the state for its share has been exposed to what will be the climax of the pay raise to public employees? Has it really missed the point? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that a few days ago, a brief week ago, were approved by the Allied Council, which prohibited the performance of BHM and nurses, and specifically indicated how the pay struggle could be handled in a court? It can be calculated. Nurses have done it for their share, that's 18.6%. That was a good time. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who participated in a large portion of the GDR to complete the work done in this way by public employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u38	I had a replacement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u39	- Or an assistant for her. So is the work of a man. I mean, even though it's rough. A senator has not personally deposed the sledgehammers of public strikeers who have been taken care of and who have taken a false step in order to allow a court order to decide as their reward. [[Up front.]] The most shameful part of that law was the subversive formula in the bill, which was then adopted against the claims of all of us in the government stand for what should be considered. It's totally clear what it is. As I said in the case of nurses, that's 18.6%. We're in a hurry. Then there's a perfect misunderstanding. A senator is not concerned with what will come into the state's budget because of actions that should be served by canceling the capital. That's exactly what you're talking about. A senator said there's a bill here for a stable tax. This tax was to be given 862 billion. The head of the advance party gave a big speech at his party council, but he spoke after that meeting about 1,000 to 1200 billion. In any case, the law said about 860 billion. However, the head of the Future Party forgot to report at the World Council that the demands were also offered on a different route, and the head of the Agency forgot to tell about his introduction in Hörpa that the government offers demands of 400 billion. What does it say? A senator? Would it then be called this government by the demanding government? I'm not gonna let myself do that. It doesn't matter. There is now, according to the statement of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, since the discount has already been taken into account by the Agency, the state's budget of 400 billion will be set up in stability. That is what can be taken into account. So I'm a little bit closer to us in time then it's totally clear to the point. paritaprevir As a result, Vigdís Hauksdóttir is clearly at a place other than her place of employment, the Hall of Congress, so she has not noticed in the way the government has said it may be done with the money. Is it really that way? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has not listened to the speech of the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson? In this discourse, he made it clear that they speak for granted. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir went with us earlier and said that there would be room for less interest fees, i.e. Thirty-five billion, would be empty shit. Hv. In his speech, a senator traced it to the last talk presented on a stable tax bill that would make no use of what would come to the State in anything but two. First, in order to fill a hole in which taxation on broken - down farms falls because there will be no stretchet and second, in order to pay the letter that went between the Federal Bank and the State Fund. In other words, it's less than 200 billion. Everything else said why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson has to burn, destroy. He used those words. In other words, he said that this vast volume of space could not be expected because of less interest costs, such as background. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir says. I can use this as an example to tell you that you are probably right. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir said here before, at least. The head of a legal committee did not know what had turned up and what had gone down into the financial affairs of the State. That's why it is. Harðardóttir Oddný's true that the document we're dealing with would best be referred to the government, which is a fine word for claiming that she intends to throw it away. This is the judgment given after reviewing the plan. When it comes to the council from the Commission, they are under the custody of the Generals. The committees that deal with them are to do so independently, not take orders from the Commission. What bothers me is what's wrong with what's wrong with me. paritaprevir In this latter opinion, Vigdís Hauksdóttir and his daughter, it literally says that because of the two uncertainties I mentioned, the government is the authority, not equipped to evaluate the impact these factors may have on the financial affairs this year or the next four years. Mr. President. Wasn't that right now. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir, who stressed in advance that this matter was a matter of custody of the council? Of course. I resent this surrender to the Commission, just as I was upset with it, and I found that in a talk earlier today, after a financial committee had made comments on some guidelines that came from the Ministry of State to the end of budget laws, a financial committee was placed under the direction of the committee. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir down his trunk and made no modifications. Just as it is now, the majority of the budget panels were waiting, giving an excuse that the Ministry of finance could not have earned it. Congress is independent. The government is at the council, not the European Commission. We accept suggestions from there, but we do things ourselves. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir does not trust himself to give the lead as the chairman of a financial committee, so maybe she should find another place in the council. Let's talk about it. The senator here was, in fact, one constant crying over the fact that there was no peace of work at the General because of speech. Is it the proverbial queen of the past few years who comes and complains that men have brought up this matter about President's conference board? I don't want to stay in the past, but I could come here with numbers on how much of the council's time. paritaprevir During the past four years, Vigdís Hauksdóttir discussed a meeting board of presidents. It doesn't matter at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u40	I dare you to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u41	The important thing is that even if all the cases of the council that are scheduled today and this matter, including 10 or 20 days ago, the council would still be here today. This is because two key elements of the government, contracts and fixed taxes were not made until mid - June. These are key names. The government official agreed to cooperate to stay for as long as it takes to resolve the situation. That's why we're here. I'm not even going to call it a remainst layer at the highest level. A government because I know that it was difficult. There was a lot of work to be done. We know that now, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has always refused and as high as possible. Prime Minister has always refused, but the highest. However, the financial and economic secretary's debate over the stable tax required time for negotiations and negotiations with the demands. Then, Mrs. President, at the end of this discussion, we can see that after the advance Party, the head of the budget committee and the head of the forward party have expressed concern for the heroic efforts of the Agency towards the demanding authorities and that others who have wanted to go the way to demands are guilty of something close to treason that is the forward party that has led to it and has agreed for about 400 billion years. A discount to demands. That would have been a story to the next town in the last campaign if it had been known that it would be the advance party that offered a discount that is five times higher than the debt that we received yesterday's report. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir needs to consider how far others have served foreign interests. No Icelandic politician has gone as far as to give credit to demands of what he himself has tore up in a paper with a government bill as the highest objective of the government. Who would have believed it? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir would be the master of the house. Prime Minister in the fight to give to demands at 400 billion? Madam President. Finally, I'd like to answer the question, not me. I never would have believed that. These amounts, however, are available. In case of a moment. A senator wanted to study this and want to live up to his duties as the chairman of a legal committee, then these amounts are already available. That is why they can be accepted into this government budget, but it is likely that their advance company is too ashamed of how far they have gone in the service to demands in this spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u42	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a panel of committees on billing on the health committee decision from the greater part of the health committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought in a number of visitors, as well as reports from a number of parties who received reports. By permission of the highest power. In my speech, I intend to review the committee's opinion of a greater part of the welfare committee. First, the bill. The bill suggests that seven decision-making and judicial committees of the Ministry of Health - Social Services, Social Services and Housing and Social Affairs Committees - will be united in one decision-making committee. The bill shows that in recent years the charges against the committee have increased, and some of them found it difficult to handle the number of paints. Each of the three committees involved in a second job. Most of them did not have special employees but received help from the Ministry. By uniting them to a committee of nine members, three full - time ministers who have regular employees, may increase practicality and improve their practice. Then the independence of the Commission will increase that the members of the Ministry no longer come to prepare a ruling. General on independent decision committees. The Icelandic government order is based on the development of Ministers in charge of the administration, each in his own area, compare with Article 13 and 14. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. Thus, they have authority and a duty to control under the established authorities. They can include published in the form of a review of decisions made by a lower government government charged with ministers, as 1 mgr. Twenty-six. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993. However, the legislator has been authorized to set up independent decision-making committees that do not submit general administrative and surveillance privileges. In recent years, there have been many issues under the jurisdiction of the Minister for Independent Decision Committees. While such application may be appropriate in particular cases, a greater part of the Committee gives a reason to give a warning about overcoming this issue. There is a significant contribution to the treatment of lawsuits from legislators to independent ruling committees that undermine the administrative rights and responsibility of the minister of the administrations, including the council, and are therefore in accordance with the governmental structure expected by the Constitution. In addition, it distributes a small number of Icelandic governments, thus reducing expert knowledge within recruitment, interfering with the management system, and increasing the cost of the state. The majority of the committee do not cross the bill on this basis, and this does not include the implementation of projects from a minister but the unity of the panels already active. However, more than a part of the Commission believes that in continuing review of the welfare administration, it will be based on a minister's decision on charges unless there is a specific basis for a ruling by an independent decision committee. Let's move on to a number of committees. In view of the fact that the bill is reserved for only nine members of the committee, another predictable number of cases could be considered, instead of the 21 members of the committee today. So the bill's objective of efficiency would not be successful. There was also concern that expertise in the fields of decision - making could be lost due to a reduction in the number of members of the Committee. Special emphasis was given on the importance of maintaining expertise in child protection. The Committee obtained information from the Ministry of Health on the ratio of the seven committees to unite. The Council estimates that the work of the Committees corresponds to a total of 3.5 standards. The bill expects three full - time members and six additional committees. Given the additional six committees' work meant a total of more than half of status values, the bill according to this plan led to more than no lower standards for members of the Committee. However, a majority of the committees feel that it is right for 12 members of the committee to be more than nine to ensure that there will be adequate expertise in the broad range of issues that will be discussed by the decision - making committee. In harmony with this, the majority of the Committee contributes to the decision - making work in four thirds. The majority of the committees suggest that four full - time members will contribute to increased efficiency in paying attention. The bill assumes that, according to Article 3 of the Treaty, there will always be the necessary expertise in the areas involved. The bill. However, more than a part of the Committee suggests that a member of the Committee should have expertise in child protection because of the particular importance of expertise in that language. This does not mean, however, that no more than one member of the committee could have expertise in child protection. The release of a ruling. It was noted that in the interest of justice and transparency, it would be desirable for the decision - making committee of welfare to publish all or most of its decisions, not just a major decision like 1 mg. Count 9. The bill assumes. The majority of the committee agree with the comments and therefore suggests that the decision-making committee should be published. However, as the decision - making committee often discusses sensitive personal matters, more members of the Committee will contribute to the exception of the decision if there is any particular problem with ensuring personal protection. It would seem that in general personal protection will be ensured by the removal of names, identification numbers, and other personal identifications from published decisions. In exceptional circumstances, however, it may be necessary to release the entire decision in order to ensure personal protection. It is assumed that further instructions on when to release the decision will be given in Regulation, as per 1 mg. 1 1. The bill. The board of Homeland Affairs. It was noted that the work force of the Hospital Committee is different from that of the six committees to which the bill takes place. It would be, not to reevaluate governmental decisions, but to give consideration to personal differences, often between two or more individuals. The cases brought by the DA's committee should not be in common with any other litigation groups that would be subject to the decision - making committee of welfare. Thus, the benefits would be that this committee of the joint committee would be vague. On the nancial basis, the Board of Hospitals was set up by law. 66/2010, the change in rents, the law on vacation and rent property under vacation houses, the law on retail property, the law on housing, and the local community service, with subsequent adjustments. The law included a united set of committees that dealt with individuals'disagreements about property. The majority of the Committee agrees that the projects of theJustice Committee are different from those of the six panels listed by the bill. The majority do not feel that there is a positive conjugal effect because the NTSB is united with the members of the panels and suggests that it will not be among the panels that are united. Thus, the majority suggest that the bill be removed from the network, No. 26/1994, No. 36/1994, and a law on vacation areas and rent property for vacation homes, No. 75/2008, compare 36.5. Count 13. The bill, and references to the welfare decision-making committee. The Board of Social Refinings. The committee noted that the Court's Committee of Corrections has been having difficulty retrieving the number of charges it has received. By the end of 2014, there were thus 251 unregistered cases with the NTSB. In contrast, it would have been a good move on the Commission's work, and 2014 if more charges were taken than had been received to the D.A. It might be desirable for the jury to conclude the release of the already delivered cases rather than for this great number of cases to be brought to a joint ruling committee. As noted above, a greater proportion of the Committee suggests that the general legal hearing will be postponed until January 1st, 2016. Nevertheless, because of the vast number of unsalaried cases of the Court's Remuneration Committee, the majority of these items are considered to be necessary and could be challenging for the decision - making committee if all of them moved there. It is therefore suggested that legal requirements for temporary II be submitted to the Commission's Committee of Corrections to complete the treatment of the cases administered to the Commission on January 1, 2015, and that it be permitted to extend the period of the jury's order of up to twelve months after the execution of the law. It was noted that there may be a reason to recommend the authority of the lower government to represent the decision of the matter of well - being. The decisions could be of significant interest and precedent. The authority of the lower government to carry them under the courts would be the decision - keeping committee and an important security valve. The majority of the committee do not violate these views. On the other hand, he feels normal that this issue is taken to each person in the law where the authority is given to sue the decisions of the lower government to the decision of the welfare committee rather than the general law on the social ruling committee. So the majority of the committee do not suggest changes in the bill for this. Another thing. The Persian Protection of the bill was suggested that there be a special reference to personal protection and the handling of personal information, No. 77/2000, in the laws on the J.A. decision-making committee, in view of the amount of personal information that would be anticipated by the decision-making committee. The majority of the committees suggest a change of 4. The bill is the same. The majority suggest a change to the latter part of 1.mg. Section 8. the bill to be consistent with 2 mg. Twenty-nine. Government law. Some time must pass between the approved legislation on the J.A. decision-making committee for their general implementation so that room is available to prepare the Commission's orders and bring the staff. So the majority of the Committee suggests that the legislation will be valid on January 1, 2016, except for 2 st. and provisional I, which is already valid. Other forms of change explain themselves. The majority of the Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted by the change proposed in a special Senate document, which I intend to briefly review. The changes made by more than a part of the health committee recommend to a bill on the health committee decision are as follows: 1st First verse 1. Notes: The SEC should be decided on behalf of the administrative decision as outlined in a law that applies to the case at the Committee. 2. We're on 2. a. Instead of the word ◯nit, the 1st word is spoken. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. b. Instead of the words ▪tvo vice presidents, 1st speech. Figure 1. Come on: three members of the committee. c. Instead of the word ◯sex in the 1st language. Number 3. 8 o'clock. e. g. in place of the above words, and only there should be a doctor to the 2nd case. Number 3. come: one should be a doctor, and one should have expertise in child protection. 3. At Section 3. a. Case one. 2 mg. It says: The decision board shall operate in four thirds. b. Instead of the words, 4. 2 mg. Come on, don't sit down. c. Case five. 2 mg. Put it this way: The chairman, or committee, appointed to the full - time service, according to Article 1. 2.g. The management board conducts a case. 4. At Section 4. a. In addition, there will be a new paragraph as price 1. mg., as follows: The implementation of the Committee's Committees and Personnel and Advisor on Personal Information is under the role of the Personal Protection and the handling of personal information. b. The headline of this article reads: Protecting personal information. 5. 2 mg. Section 5. ... goout. 6th The words ▪ Or a request for a decision or a opinion by the committee to the 6th paragraph. ... goout. 7. At 7th. a. For example, at 2 mg, the words ▪ or give an opinion in a conflict. ... goout. b. The words ▪ or give the opinion of, or the opinion of, ◯ or the opinion of, at 3 mg. ... goout. c. Instead of the words "Urways " and the Commission's opinion, they have the final position of 4 mg. come: Committee decisions are final. 8. Instead of the words, if there are specific reasons, recommend the use of the latter verse 1.mg. Section 8. should be used: in case of good health, for treatment of conditions where this is recommended. 9. Count 9. Speak along with a headline: Display of decrees. Annual report. The committee shall publish its decisions in an orderly and accessible manner. They will print without names, IDs, and other personal identifications. Exceptional judgments are permitted if there are special problems in ensuring personal protection. The committee shall report their work to the minister every year, and key findings and conclusions that can be drawn from the decisions made by the Committee. 10. Instead of the words, the decrees and opinions given at 1st. 1 1. Come on: release of the dates and content of the annual report. 11th Instead of the year ◯2015 in Article 12. Come on, 2016. 12th Three, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, 13th It's a provision for temporary II. a. After the 1st case. However, a new hearing will be held, as follows: All cases received by the Committee on January 1, 2015, shall be completed by the Board of Corrections. b. But it is permitted to extend the time of the judicial hearings up to twelve months from the validation of these laws. Under the view of a majority of the welfare committees, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Braunr Níelsson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u43	V.E.G. President. I recommend to my share of welfare committees, where the manager is not present, for the Committee on Proclamation of the Health Committee. A smaller section of the Committee supports the objective of the bill and declares satisfaction with the changes made by the majority. The minority, however, feels that these changes do not match the serious comments made by the Children's Institute, the Children's Subcommittee, or Theft. ... oftheadvising of the Children's Protection Committee to a joint decision panel. It was noted that child - welfare issues are highly specialized and that they have little in common with other language groups, such as the World Health Committee. They required very specialized knowledge not only of law but also of child development, the ability of parents and others close to meet the needs of children, etc. It would be impossible for the joint ruling committee to be given less expertise in child welfare, but now the NTSB is being held, even though it would be specifically recommended that one member of the JTS Committee should have special knowledge on child welfare matters. According to 1st mg. Section 3. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which was granted the legal value of this country by law No. 19/2013, should be the best priority for a child whenever legislators take steps that concern children. The minority does not consider it to be in the best interests of children, despite the positive changes made to the top of the section, to the social committee. So the lesser part goes against the approval of the bill. This is what you're gonna sign. Councilmen Ingadóttir Ingabjörgdóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, who is an executive, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Þóra Turnar Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u44	A respectable president. I would like to continue to highlight my viewpoint of a part of the welfare committee listed in the Committee of my section, and then especially pause at the comments of the Children's Agent, who says in his review, by permission of the president: Despite the efforts made in the transition, an agent of the children can see better than that, in view of the whole case, it is actually taking steps backwards for child protection in the country. There is an explicit comment made by a specialist in the field who must listen, especially when considering that the members of the Committee on Health Care Committee are standing by permission of a president: However, the more part of the Committee considers it proper to further review of the welfare administrations, based on the fact that a minister's ruling of the case, unless there is any particular evidence that a ruling authority is with an independent decision committee. I think this statement by the Children's Author suggests that there are at least some time now that children's guardians will be allowed to enjoy the doubt while the joint committee has a job and possibly at a subsequent review of these cases is bringing child protection into a united committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u45	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the Committee on General and Education Committee. I'd like to state that at the end of the hearing, there are a number of adjustments made by the committee. There are all committees who sign the committee's opinion, but three publications in advance, and it's good for people to keep this in mind when I cross - references, but that's why. Councilmen of Guðbjartur Hannesson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson son of Gunn. The objective of this bill is to improve the implementation of legal laws and to ensure that the work programme and the entire legal environment are in accordance with international rights commitment. It is planned by the bill to prepare the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons as well as to address the International Commission's Declaration of Human Rights and the tips of Free Society Associations, Professionals, and others on the violations of the law and on the basis of them. It is clear that on the committee, we talked a lot about whether this bill will achieve its goals, going far enough. The Committee presented a strong desire for committees to consider the overall review of the law, but these laws have not been revised materially since they came into effect. Nevertheless, the purpose of the bill is to reform the legislation, taking into account our commitments to human rights and the terms of those contracts that are behind them do not require total reexamination, in which legal laws are general laws that concern all persons, not just those who are disabled. As a result, it was the decision of the Committee to handle this matter in this way, i.e. underneath all the members of the committee, but on a short notice, I expect someone will explain but I intend to read it at this point. The premonition suggests that the members of Congress do not feel that there is to be a particular disease, dr. b- team 1st. The bill, when it comes to a condition due to decommunication of law. In their opinion, it is very important that uniform police officers are not in the field when entering a person's home in order to be forced or self - sufficiency. It is also urgent to increase the social development of a team. A great deal of effort is being made in the revision of the law, believing that more time would have been needed to win the case, including the fact that there is no cost to the change made by the bill. Mr. President. 14th degree. There are detailed regulations on the publication and registration of legal delinquency laws. According to this bill, adjustments are made in order to keep Iceland's National Registry on a legal file and to allow a minister to place access to information from the registry and its share. Of course, this is very sensitive information, but in some cases it must be allowed to provide information from the registry so that they can be asked for a certificate of law instead of asking for it from the Ministry. It was stated on the board that the proof that the Agency, the National Book of Iceland, publishes on the basis of national and public registrations is based on registration of national records. This is an estimate that the Constitution will be within the administrative system, and therefore it will always be at the publication of a certificate based on the information reported by a member of the county bodies. Therefore, it would be very important to make the adjustment that the judge so soon to send a confirmed remand of disbarred laws to the Ministry's attorney, so this is now all true. So we make adjustments in this regard. There were comments from the Agency to state what should be included in the registry. That is why we make adjustments in this regard. Other than that, I'd like to say that we covered the committee very much about the forced care, as the committee says. It actually speaks for itself about that coverage. I'd like to state, though, at 17. The bill stipulates the extension of forced care and states that it is permitted by a judge's decision to extend forced care once for up to 12 weeks at 21 days from the date of the county decision. It is emphasized on the committee that there is an extreme effort to agree with the individual before this decision is taken. We agree with these views and insist that such forced care should not be brought to the attention of a person who has been stripped of self - control. The purpose of the arrangement is to increase the likelihood that self - control may be avoided, and this is to try to put matters into place to lower corrective measures. Of course, it is very important in this delicate category that the law code is clear, clear to what rights and responsibilities are involved, for it is an individual's personal rights that are important and that these laws and laws are put to the test when a person is in a more delicate position. Mr. President. I believe we've reached certain landings in the adjustments we make. We discussed a number of individuals who should be signing a request and making certain landings at the Committee about it. I hope this case will be agreed, but restate the findings of the Committee, the Joint Committee, that it is time for a total legal review. Under this opinion, the one listed here is writing a letter, please. Councilmen Páll Valur Björnsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, and then chief of staff. Councilmen of Guðbjartur Hannesson, Osquerasion of Hrafn Gunnarsson, and Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u46	Mr. President. I'm just going to make an explanation for the presence of my share in this case, but he's giving orders. Councilmen of Guðbjartur Hannesson of Helesson and of the holy Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and the one listed here. Precautions that we do not believe that any particular mental illness should be proposed, as indicated in the B- team 1. the bill, in the case of a condition that needs to be decommissioned. There are many other factors that can arise when people have to be exonerated, and we feel somewhat special that this is actually just one disease specified in the law. It was a matter of conversation, but there was no solid agreement about it. Visitors who have experience with these matters are familiar with and work in this field have given much thought to the need to use pressure measures that involve entering people's homes during delinquency or forced care. There comes a police car, even with lights and uniformed police officers, coming out. This will be a huge dramatizing event in the face of the humiliation and dreary fact that is involved in self - destruction or the forced theft of some sort. We also discussed quite a few social groups that have been tested here in the capital area, i.e. that such a team come into people's homes and that such methods are in fact before they come to use such severe measures. As for follow-up, if for forced care, there are alternative measures that can be taken when a person comes out, but the entire family often suffers severe wounds. Like what? A senator and president of the General and Education Committee came in, of course, with a great deal of effort to revise the law. We agree, and we would have chosen that this matter would be held in the fall, perhaps even a year, and that the matter would continue to be won. It is not a secret, therefore, that this region is creating a set cost for rural society, since it is those who have to do the job of making these decisions. They need 24 - hour social services every day of the year. When it comes to self-destruction, or something like that, it's the communities involved. The cost of falling is not calculated because it is only here in the capital area where such services exist, but the rural communities noted that it was not there. We and those who criticized this bill made it so that in many respects it would be better to take the step rather than to make a decision. So despite this warning, we decided to keep our opinion on the subject. What is new also here is expected to be revised after two years. It is important to reevaluate and evaluate whether it has been successful enough, especially when there are some changes in the law involved in such delicate matters as this case, not only in forced care but also in the registration and implementation of decisions and other factors. We also discussed forced care, and as the chairman of the committee approached, the greatest time to discuss the matter was to discuss it. We wanted to see if there were hospital transporters rather than the police involved when entering the home. The correct tip is that people may be inclined to take medical transport back to their homes, but if the police come in a uniform on flashing cars, they may be inclined to look at it differently. Of course, they are not trained to cope with circumstances that may arise. That is why you realize that it may not always be possible to do so. Of course, that should be the case. It should be as often as possible when such a serious intervention is required. The committee reiterates the importance of this by being considerate and considerate as one can handle the other. There was another big thing that I think I've achieved here, it was very much discussed, and I've had some opinions about it, i.e. anyone who signs a request for forced care or delinquency does not have to be a relative. People have different experiences. It's probably left a wound, even for a long time and in some places, when a parent or guardian has had to force someone to come close to him, even because the parent saw no other way and the system accepted them only because of a standing sign. It is now transferred to the Social Committees or to the staff involved. Families cannot ask for such forced care. To me, it was one of the big things that happened on this matter, and to our guests, at least those who have personal experience and are familiar with it felt that this was one of the things that mattered immensely to handle the situation now. Finally, I'd like to mention the D-joining 16. g., for advice and support afterwards and after forced care, that the health - care minister should implement a Regulation is subject to this. I believe it is of utmost importance now that the law will be established, that we in the General and Education Committee will follow that the Regulation will be put in place to support this new procedure, which is in reality to all of these factors. This authority has been present in the law, but it has not really been used as a legal hearing. Then there is the court order regarding the extension of the 17th chapter. that it is only once possible to extend 12 weeks after 21 days of the day of the county's appointment. There was also a significant discussion that it would not just be done, and it was emphasized to try to communicate with the sick and to agree before such long forced care would be taken. Sadly, delinquency has lingered in the system for many years, and somehow no one has followed, that even if the person has returned to health or is not in the hospital or in an institution, he really has no jurisdiction. That, of course, is very sad. There is an improvement in the surveillance needed by saving it from a national file, so I hope that there is an improvement and that we do not need to hear it at some point when the case later comes up to review that it is still with people. Mr. President. I'm not going to discuss this anymore. These are important personal rights, and this is a very sensitive matter that is being passed on. I believe these laws are improving, hoping that the Ministry of Health, Health Minister, or Minister of the State, or who is to be in charge of these laws, will go into it as soon as possible on the autumn days, and we will find that the matter will be completed as follows.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u47	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend the opinion of the greater part of the State Department on bill to legalize the law on international security issues, etc. A committee article explains the treatment of the committee and the visitors. It shows that with the bill there is a change to existing law in two main areas, on the part of foreign government access and on the other hand, the induction of international commitment to the cryo-conservation of funds and related matters related to forced action. In particular, as the committee's opinion says, there are rules on foreign land access, marine and air transport, which are intended to replace an old - fashioned directive from July 24, 1939, which has been the basis of such sources so far. Second, when it comes to freezing money, the bill contains laws on a more rapid display of terrorists and organizations. Iceland's main international commitment to the freezing of terrorist organizations comes from the United Nations Security Council. In recent years, some three months have been averaged by induction in Iceland. The FAFF has decided that when the Security Council changes its arts to terrorists and an organization required to freeze money, this change in national law must be implemented immediately and at least within two to three days. Member State of the financial system, e.g. Norway, have resolved this in a manner that has been resolved to refer to its legislation directly to the Security Council's Web site regarding the updates of the terrorist list, but do not necessarily publish them during their own reigns. The bill suggests a similar set of legislation. Third, the bill suggests that sources will be made available in order to cooperate with Iceland's teamwork. In accordance with local laws, the government can perform forced measures determined by the United Nations Security Council, International Organizations, or National Groups to maintain peace and security and/or to ensure respect for human rights and freedom. The bill suggests that this warrant will be extended so that forced action can be introduced by partners and is then referred to by the European Economic Area or North Atlantic Association (NAO) partners of the European Parliament. Fourth, the bill is suggested to allow business restrictions with raw diamonds from war zones (so-called blood diamonds), as well as business with tools that can be used for torture or for the execution of capital punishment. Please refer to this bill for the Kimberley process, the international cooperation of working against the trades of diamonds from war zones, and prevent them from being used to finance violence on the part of rebel forces or terrorist groups. Since Iceland is involved in treaties forbidding the death penalty and torture, it is good to forbid business with a tool that can be used for torture or death in the same way that has been done in neighboring countries. Fifth and final, the bill is suggested to limit investments in companies that provide services or produce things that can be used for military purposes. In force, there are laws that require access to services and products that could be used for such purposes. It then applies to an export ban to a number of states on the basis of the United Nations Security Council. It is normal to limit foreign people, mainly outside the European Economic Area, to make more of the enterprises in Iceland that produce contaminated products or provide services forbidden to serve in certain countries. Otherwise, there is an increased risk of avoiding current export monitoring legislation. The committee will eventually explain two points that had a few discussions on the field committee. Among them was the change that is made from available sources to participate in forced titration operations so that Iceland can participate in the co-operation activities in cooperation with a cooperative state. As stated earlier, the government can perform forced action determined by the United Nations Security Council, International or national groups to maintain peace and security and/or to ensure respect for human rights and freedom. There was an example of a situation in which such measures were considered to be taken by the European Union, but such a decision had not been made in the interests of the United Nations, the European Union, or other international institutions. In the meantime, lack of money would have improved before Iceland's involvement. The greater part highlights what is said in comments to the bill that when we discuss a cooperation in this context, we are talking about the cooperation of the European Union in EEA or NATO. The second point that had been discussed at a meeting of the Committee was whether some of the regulations of the bill might take place on so - called prison flights, as some have been in recent years. It was noted that the standards of the bill on state air transport did not include changes from current activities, but they strengthened the legal basis for this procedure. The U.S. government's ability to react to illegal flights of prisoners by means of state airs would depend on the state's providing either full information on the flight, the passengers and the purpose of flights or other means of tipping on such matters. If not, it would be best for police and customs authorities to have a chance to monitor the airports, although taking into account possible land rights. Such police and customs services, however, would be more relevant to civilian flight, but the examples we know in recent years about the American flights are about transporting prisoners by airplanes written on private companies and did not in any way indicate that the state air travel would fall beyond the range of this bill, and it will not be seen in any way that the change in this bill could be handled in such cases. This is primarily the fact that police and customs authorities have relevant sources, but it is unrealistic to believe that such adjustments can ensure that such cases do not arise in recent years, although, of course, people are more cautious. After that, I suggest that the bill be agreed on as well as in part with the Committee. A smaller section of the Committee has proposed a proposal and a change in terms of the obligation of a minister in order to provide information on authority provided to foreign state airs, and, on the other hand, on consultations with rural communities where foreign ships request permission before granting them permission. It's my opinion that these changes in memory of the object are unnecessary. On the one hand, the Foreign Affairs Committee may always call for information from a minister on the issues involved and no need to impose upon them an obligation to be informed of all cases where such permission is granted, but if necessary, according to the World Council of State, it can be called upon. In view of the obligation to communicate with rural society, it is my opinion that although such consultations may be possible in isolated cases, there is no need to impose the obligation to consult with a fellow member of the community in these areas, for it is so that the source of such sources is foreign and, frankly, with full respect for the autonomy of the rural communities, cannot be considered as a subject for them to run independent foreign policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. The head of the State Committee of State had his attempt to trace the proposals of a smaller section that may have been fully placed in place. Chairman, but I will go over them now. We've discussed this on the committee. As mentioned in the previous speaker's case, a smaller portion of the committee's list and adjustments are provided. They're signing the one that stands here and what. paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé. It suggests a change of motion aimed at increasing transparency and communication requirements and, on the other hand, more clearly identifying the concept of forced action in subsequent adjustments. I will only review argument support for that and review my share of the committee's opinion. The bill points to the change of existing legislation in relation to the access of foreign policy countries and the introduction of international commitment to cryo-conservation and other forced measures. It is true that changes in foreign land transport cannot be described as radical, and it was, in fact, an estimate of one authority on flight care that such changes would be unnecessary. It is an evaluation of 1st small part that would have used the opportunity to make changes in the law and make real changes, so that a minister will be obliged to inform the Council of State's Foreign Affairs on the licenses he gives to foreign state airs, but it has the possibility that a minister will be able to establish laws in which foreign funerals are available and how their journeys should be conducted within Icelandic territory. There's a document that is already in the law, but the idea is that there is an increased transparency written into the law so that it becomes a normal part of such licences to inform the State Department. However, it is suggested that a minister be made obliged to consult with the local community if he intends to grant permission to a foreign government ship to make port. The reason for a smaller portion of this suggests that such incidents have occurred in which rural communities have expressed their view that they do not wish to form ships on their ports. Moreover, they have described themselves without nuclear weapons. The head of the State Department doesn't think it's normal that rural society is running independent foreign policy, so these are important decisions that come into the table of rural society where the most important decisions in close society are made, so it's only plain courtesy, I would say, the highest. In view of its potential conflict, a foreign minister at any given time has consulted with rural communities before granting permission to enter their ports. Rather, to set up such protocols, I would consider a change to improve general government practices and to promote the interests of states and rural society, which, unfortunately, are far too poor. So here are these two changes that focus primarily on better consultations, increased transparency. In terms of the section of the bill in which forced operations are concerned, the 1st small part of the comment will make that these are used as the terms ▪ national groups and ◯ mergers, i.e. No decision for forced action is required by international institutions but is referred to national and cooperative groups that are not defined. There's a chance that more things will go wrong. State within the international institutions we already belong to, but I would like to mention that in 1st. the historic fact that such a group was prepared for the ensuing alliance of established nations was identified, but it could also be called a coalition of willing nations, when it was invaded into Iraq, which was proved to be a failure, as it has been since then and was not supported by the people. Although a minister has pointed out in the discussion that he does not consider such warfare to be part of the term ▪ forced action, the term use in international politics has been somewhat stretchy and may well be said to say that it contains international politics similar to internal politics. These include the air raids of Libya, which were known as the implementation of an air - travel ban, and thus may no doubt extend the term of compression to them. A smaller portion of it feels right to believe that such forced action is not military. So it should be taken out of all doubt as to what is involved in forced labor, and that is why the lesser part should be followed by ▪ forced action as the 3rd unit. falling: it cannot be regarded as a military reaction. Mr. President. I don't see any reason to keep a larger number on this case, but I propose this and repeat that it's considered to be written at any given time. Councilmen Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, and Óttarr Proppé.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u49	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the National Institute of Education and the proposal to change the bill from the greater part of the General and Education Committee. The committee discussed the matter at 12 meetings, spending a considerable amount of time on it, and they brought in a number of visitors. On this occasion, I would like to thank all members of the committee for their job well done. Together, I think we've been working on improving this bill. Despite the fact that there are two committees, there are many points that we agreed on as a whole of the committee. The purpose of the bill is the establishment of the new Directorate-General for Education, Education and Culture, which is to be released from the Board of Education and Culture to the new agency. In 1st. The bill stipulates that the Institute of Education for Education is an institution of Education, which should contribute to increasing the quality of education in accordance with government laws and policies, the best knowledge and international standards. The role of the Agency must be carried out by the law and by the secretary of the Agency. The committee found that the role of the Agency is uncertain, but the majority of the part points out that the bill is endeavoring to establish one educational administration and not merely a limited part, as the arrangement is being carried out today. The greater part of the assessment is that it is not necessary to refer to the establishment of the National Institute of Education as a Service, even if the Agency is legally authorized to perform a specific service in connection with education. Based on the greater part, when it comes to such services, it is considered to be a legal obligation that falls under her administration. In the sense of 1. Section 12. Act on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, controlled by the Secretary of Ministers. A greater proportion also points out that the role of any school degree is defined in separate laws. The report is on the 2nd C.E. Organization for the National Institute of Education. The bill. It says that a minister appoints a director for five years and that he has a university education that is useful in his work and knowledge of the Agency's work field. By means of the bill, the arrangement that has been established for a research agency and a study centre for an order has been established. To meet the viewpoint of the importance of consultation, a greater proportion of the items are provided to set up a consulting committee as a meeting with a manager once a year, and more often if necessary, and there are key stakeholders. The majority suggest that the Advisory shall be appointed seven representatives, two members of the Committee shall be appointed without a commission and one of the chairman, one according to the appointment of the European Union's Commission, one according to the appointment of the Icelandic High School Social Services Committee, one according to the motion of the National Teacher Association and one according to the motion of home and school. The project of the Advisory Committee is to be director for advice on long-term policy development on the activities of the Agency. A greater part of the report shows that it is important to consider carefully different aspects of the Agency's activities in order to avoid causing any professional conflict. The majority feel that it is correct to recognize the work and responsibilities of the new organisation as well as in the procedures established by the Agency. An authority wants to mention here that a lot of stakeholders are coming to an institution like this. Since a minister is charged with appointing two of the representatives without a appointment, it may be possible for him to look at each occasion, after emphasis, to see whether any stakeholders will be out of the question. The bill does not require that the director of the National Institute of Education and Education be an expert. However, it is noted that he has a university education that is useful in his work and knowledge of the Agency's work field. The majority of the candidates are made aware that limited requirements for working conditions can limit the number of candidates. The majority of the rights to the Ministry of Education are not to take care of educational policies. Rather, the bill is designed to authorize a minister to delegate various procedures carried out by the Ministry, and the minister is responsible under law. The minister continues to rule matters, including policy and academic responsibility, as detailed in various laws. In the 3rd. The bill is recommended that the head of the Environment Agency set up a professional programme for the Agency's main areas for counseling and consultation as agreed in the rules set and published by the director. According to a few reviews, the view that it is necessary to define better for those sitting there and the extent and nature of the expected counsellors. The importance of research research and study evaluation advice was also shown to be ensured by law and finance, end of the Agency's top priority. The majority point out that education is subject to constant change, so it may be wise to change according to educational policies and goals at any given time. The majority estimate is that flexibility in the composite of professional and professional viewpoints is desirable primarily to determine who will be selected until the session. Nevertheless, the greater part considers it important to correct the importance of cooperation and consultation in the practical advice to be set up. In view of the indications that the director was entrusted with too much power by determining how the Presidency should be performed, the greater part suggests that a minister should appoint a legal and legal Regulation. The majority of the Agency's main tasks, such as study and quality assessments, study tools, well-being, work and working. For example, when discussing the welfare of the individual, a leading authority sees that he is involved in such a fall. The harassment and feelings of students in school. The main role of the Institute for Education is recommended in eight letters in Article 4. The bill. The Agency accepts all the roles of the National Institute of Education and Culture, as well as the work of the Agency's research and educational research projects that are currently under way. This is not a complete count. In the treatment of the Commission bill, there was some criticism that the projects that the National Institute of Education is not to be properly defined and that their scope may be high. The majority of the items in this relationship are due to frame legislation and some tasks are and will be defined more clearly by other laws, such as Article 10. The bill. The more important part, though, is that the role of the Environment Agency is clearly set aside and suggests that its work is basically to promote reform and development in school. The majority also contributes to the modification of tasks. The greater part is that it is proper to have a view that what is best for a child should always take first priority when making decisions that concern children, in line with the requirements of the United Nations Children's Convention. A greater proportion of them are the importance of developing a well-defined position in the Institute for Education and Media at the Institute of Education, on the basis of the scope of that work. In addition, the greater part feels that there will be a review of law on study data and that it will discuss the role of the State in a study edition. Such a review would be based on analyses and policies on the legal party involved in the role of the National Institute of Education, the presence of rural society, the scholarship fund, and the development fund of scholarships. The majority also feel that the role of the Institute of Education needs to be considered for secondary study data. In the 5th. The bill is given authority to call on and work by personal details relating to school courses, such as the result of study assessments, the feeling of well - being of students in schools, their social status, and the factors that affect school courses and results. The committee discussed this article with a considerable degree of protection. However, Peritoneal protection pointed out that the purpose of the information received was not clear, but in the law on personal protection, it says that information should be given in an established, clear, and objective setting. According to this, a responsible candidate must always decide in advance for the purpose of collecting personal information. The majority of these points point out that by separating the purpose clearly, it is meant to be sufficiently defined and marked to be transparent and easily understood and to be prevented from allowing for an extensive analysis that can be carried out almost at any time, this is not compatible with the views of personal protection. The majority of this discussed quite a bit, and it is his assessment that this authority to work with personal information is more relevant to the law and regulations of each school level than in the National Institute of Education. So the majority suggest that the law be taken away. Six. The bill is a specific protocol, i.e. permission to negotiate with non-participants to perform a service given to the Agency by the law. It is the same source of authority as the modern study centre now has under current laws. At that time, the National Institute of Education is permitted to be at the will of a small school that is irreformable to management units. The greater part of this understanding is that it applies primarily to study materials. Gives a greater share of the adjustment to the requirement that small schools are permitted than the right of every elementary school to be handed out to students on the basis of family study, as Article 4. The bill that will be 5. ... depending on the number of students. According to Article 10. The bill is making changes to other school laws. In number two, paragraph 10. magazines are proposed to make changes in basic school law, No. 91/2008. The majority suggest that the requirement for a consistent 10th-grade test should be extended in a way that enrolled youths, i.e. The students to the eight- and-and-a-half-a-half. Class, these same tests should be fatigued. This change makes it possible to move to the timing of a consistent test at the end of a primary school if necessary. In most cases, it would be more convenient for such tests to be in grade 9 for students, parents, and schools to allow more space than in present circumstances to deal with results before the end of the mandatory course. The greater part of this change is thought to produce space to improve the overall assessment of students' academic careers in line with their primary school qualifications. The more important part is the need to consider further adjustments in the requirements for consistent study assessments to allow for further testing development. In this way, you might consider a more flexible study method and offer students and schools an opportunity for a consistent study evaluation that would take into consideration individual needs and be placed in different levels of study. In number three, paragraph 10. is required for the changes made in high school law. Indicates a further adjustment to suggest that a minister be authorized to assign the National Institute of Education to confirm the release of a school course. The majority estimate is that it is not reasonable for two governments to give administrative instructions in the form of the same primary textbooks, even if the main curriculum is divided into two sections, general parts, and academic descriptions. To number 6 10 pars. Changes in law on financial support for music school, No. 75/1985. It suggests that a majority of the proposals for a minister to be allowed to hide the National Institute of Education to accept the release of a music school institution. This includes temporary I.D. It is required of the secretary's authority to appoint the head of the Education Agency from the office of the law. The director will be allowed from time to time on to the time the Agency takes to prepare the Agency's activities, e.g. to hire employees. During the Commission bill, some comments were made that it is important that employees do not lose their jobs properly under a collective agreement and an arrangement for these organizational changes. The majority of the rights to the bill are not to unite institutions, but two institutions are being laid down and a new agency will be established, even if the new Agency takes over the activities and other responsibilities of the institutions that will be laid down. All jobs will be submitted, and all employees may be offered a new job at the National Institute of Education, but employees may need to adjust their jobs or levels in accordance with a new plan and job description. The majority believe that it is absolutely necessary to justify these changes that the staff's age-related rights will be transferred to a new organisation and the making of new employment contracts and contracts will be taken into account as far as possible. The right to unemployment is not affected, and employees are entitled to improve unemployment accordingly. Then the Commission proposes a change in the law's standards of validation so that the office and work of those who have employment relations with a research agency, a scholarship agency, and after the reports of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which will be heard under the Institute of Education in the implementation of these laws, will be submitted on September 30, 2015. Where provision for temporary release is due, the National Institute of Education from October 1, 2015, takes over the property, rights and related to the Board of Study Assessments, and the National Research Institute. Originally, the law had been expected to go into effect today. In addition, the majority suggest a number of legal modifications. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the above changes outlined in the Council Report No. 1307. Under the writings of Chairman Konráðsdóttir Konás daughter, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, Lára Lara Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u50	Mr. President. I'm going to explain the opinion of the section on the bill on the Department of Education and go through the criticisms we present in the lesser part. The minority criticizes that the new Directorateship of Education, the National Institute of Education, to replace the Board of Education and Education, should not cover the projects previously in the relevant institutions and the projects of a new institution are not better defined in the available bill. The minority points out that many projects are referred to for additional work, such as shows the opinion of the greater part and was only traced earlier. This, for example, refers to the role of any school - education institution as being defined in various special requirements. In view of the memory, to what extent the National Institute of Education should care for various schools, the bill is primarily designed for research and formal study evaluation. The minority feels that work had to be done better in preparation for the bill and better defined how to study tools, the availability and quality of the study material and the practical use of a new research tool. There is little or nothing about the arrival of the Institute for Education in schools other than elementary school. Because these institutions have not really been attending schools in advanced phases, there is no way in which they are used. Nevertheless, the smaller item agrees with the changes the greater part suggests to be made on the bill and considers most of them to improve. The lesser part, however, wants to make the following points: The minority agrees that it is not necessary to have a management of the National Institute of Education and to propose a greater part of the order of the Advisory Committee, which is a director for advice on long-term policy development for the Agency. However, the minority considers it important to meet more than once a year and suggests that meetings will be expected at least quarterly and more frequently if necessary. In fact, there is a committee to be an agency for assistance and professional evaluation and a little something special to recommend that it should meet at least once a year in the face of high policy work. The smaller section agrees with the position of the greater part to propose the adjustment proposed by the minister to set up the Regulation on the Agency and on the job of professional ability to sharpen their role even more than the original bill. However, the memory assessment of the section is that the bill had to be defined as a number of main topics, such as research and study tools. It would also have been necessary to determine how to apply that advice to ensure professional width within such a profession. The minority cannot agree with the opinion of the greater part and for the qualifications for the management of the Agency, which says, by permission of the president: The importance of being educated by the Director of Education and Training, the expertise of the Agency's main fields of work and management, was highlighted in the treatment of the bill. The committee discussed the matter somewhat and assessed the greater part that specific qualifications for managers should be further presented in an advertisement when the director's office is advertised, sr. 7. Relations on the Rights and Duty of the State, No. 70/1996. The majority of the candidates are made aware that limited requirements for working conditions can limit the number of candidates. The memory section feels that there is no professional argument that expertise should not be required as this can reduce qualified candidates. It is an institution that includes the task of providing advice on national education policies. Education and related articles are a special field of education, so it must be a natural requirement for the head of such an institution to have an education in that field. Unfortunately, there seems to be a general tendency not to evaluate professional knowledge adequately when rulers need to be hired. The minority of criticisms that it appears that the director of the Institute of Education was hired before a formal procedure with the institution was completed and before a new legislation has been applied. We have discussed this with a considerable degree of criticism. Today, for example, at the Workorgi, ten specialized positions are being employed that are actually to be stored under this new agency. It appears at the bottom of the advertisement. So these positions are to be here rather than to do as I have pointed out from the Generals' symposium that was ideal, to place them in connection with the University of Akureyri, where the school development field could include. the jobs are performed, or one of them. The lesser part criticizes that in the production of the bill, much power is transferred to one institution. It cannot be considered desirable to perform and monitor on one hand unless it is formally separated from these factors in the Agency's organization. In the majority of the section the Agency claims that the Agency is not entrusted with academic policies, and the criticism is dismissed that certain compressions of power can cause democracies and impairment. In this regard the memory part points to the fact that in the bill it is specifically stated that the Agency should provide counselling on the preparation of laws, regulations and curriculums. It is obvious that the same person conducts educational policies, including counseling on the curriculum, study projects, and study evaluations. This is reflected in the list of activities of the Agency, which are as suggested by the greater part, by the permission of the president, that: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... see students in mandatory education for the quality and variety of study tools and other students as the Agency may be assigned, b. the collection, analysis and publication of educational information, c. monitoring and assessing the results of school work and comparing to established criteria, d. provide governments, professionals and the public information and guidance on issues in the Agency's workspace, ..the implementation of the laws, regulations and other administrations... f grant Ministers help and counselling in preparing laws, regulations and main educational textbooks and g is responsible for other tasks entrusted to the Agency by law, regulations or at the discretion of the Minister. In view of my share, this list shows that the Ministry of Education is aimed at participating in academic, academic, academic, and academic policies, and it is simply said in the bill that it should provide guidance, assistance and counseling in the educational fields for ministers. This shows that the National Institute of Education is on both sides of the table, but it can be reasoned that laws would have been better handled at places other than the same law. Thus, the publication of the study tools should be independent of the assessment and information industry rather than be subject to it, so that the evaluation does not overdirect the study tools and may even adversely influence innovation in that sector. In view of my part, time has not been won for the development of the bill to work a complete section on the collection of data and information and the sources of the Institute for Education and Personal Information for Students, such as the result of study assessment, knowledge of students in schools, social status, and factors that affect school and academic progress. So the smaller part supports the suggestion of more than 5th stratosphere. the bill and the subsequent review of this aspect of the work of the National Institute of Education. In my opinion, it is important to make sure that schools and institutions research for students or provide work as a collection of information have access to the results free of charge, whether they are tests or any other study or international research and information about students and parents, at the end of this period, schools, students, and parents have a lot of work to do in building such information. The lesser part is against the open authority rules of verses 6 and 7. The bill on reimbursement warrants, and it feels that these regulations need to be explained better. It seems that the National Institute of Education is made up of, in part, the financing of their activities through the sale of information and the reports on the school work in the country, including those of the Watch Tower Society. and selling such materials to schools that benefit. The role of the Agency in the collection and distribution of information and their sales for schools, individuals, institutions and enterprises is not clear enough. Today, private institutions are processing data collected by schools and selling results to the same parties. This, in part, is completely unacceptable. It should be defined as free of charge what information should be given and defined as narrow currency privileges in case of further processing or special processing of these data and the collection of costs for such information. The memory of the requisition to end that the bill does not adequately address the void of high-school study material, which has been repeatedly identified as a failure to ensure adequate study material in all secondary classes and that no formal monitoring of the material is in good quality. Under these are the publications of the one that stands here. Councilmen of Guðbjartur Hannesson of Henzsson and the Helgi Holy of Hrafn Gunnarsson the son of Gurs. Then there's a provision here in the opinion of the greater part I just want to kill on. It's about a statement I don't agree with that two organizations are being laid down and a new agency is being established. In fact, many observers, as well as some members of the committee, feel that this is a unit, not a dead end. This was much discussed with the staff because this was to be similar to the unity of the National Institute of Marine Research, which has now been pushed aside, with all the employees of these two institutions being dismissed and offered a new job for the new agency, but may need to accept some changes in job or occupation, as follows, in accordance with a plan and job description. It is certainly repeated that the age-related rights should be transferred to the new organisation in the preparation of new employment contracts and stock contracts or at least taken into account as far as possible, but it is not possible to completely care for the loss of something. People who work for the two organizations that are being laid down have a four - week period to refuse their jobs within the new institution, and if they do so within the four weeks, the right to unemployment will not be affected. There was an argument that people might be offered a different job than they had done, even under the pay grade, and because of this, we have been concerned and have talked about a considerable amount of things. That in itself is not guaranteed in this bill. I don't mean to say that people's rights are being served, but it's not completely guaranteed, which is something that I have a very difficult time accepting. Actually, it's about acknowledging the fact that these organizations are being united, not laying them down, in order to avoid the factors that are in line for employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u51	V.E.G. President. I come up to explain why I have more of the opinion. I can totally agree with a lot of things that appear in the opinion of the object, but this is how you can expand and work better, so you could have done it better. The first thing that struck me when we began discussing these matters on the General and Education Committee was how little a person's openness was found to have been with a member of the community. Among other things, visitors missed the fact that after the bill was submitted to the Ministry's Web, there were plenty of reports from the others and those who made comments but were not taken into account. I was very sorry about that. There seems to be a bit characteristic of all these bills, perhaps not all, it may be too deep in the years to say it, but a small consultation is taken on many matters. The reason I support this case is because I think it's the case's official. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, who has done a very good job, and a lot of adjustments have been made to meet comments and comments from the other countries. As to the role of the Institute for Education, 1st. The bill, by permission of the President: ▪ National Institutes of Education for Human Rights, which should contribute to increasing the quality of school education in accordance with the laws and policies of the government, the best knowledge, and the international standards. I find it extremely important, although we can find everything and find all sorts of bait on such a thing, that we stick together when we're starting such an important organization, that we get behind it, monitor it, give it some support, and then, after a certain time, we may bring some adjustments in order to improve it. That's why I support it because I want to stand behind this institution in spite of it, as shown. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's beaks are in many flaws, but it's in every case, and you can't do anything like it. But as I've said, I think it's a very important road source for the Agency's employees and all of us that this is going to be a good start and get support. Then we can make some changes later. I'd like to mention just the Board of Directors. Of course, it may be reprehensible, but you understand it in the light of the situation. This is power the Minister has, and there is nothing to do about it. Of course, I would have liked to see the work advertised and perhaps the one hired would have had more knowledge of education and teaching, as it has been shown in criticism. But I'll support it, and hopefully the Agency will grow up and be a credit to us in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u52	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill to legalize animal import law, No. 54/1999, with subsequent changes (definition material, from the greater part of the employment committee. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of experts from the industry, as well as the Commission's reviews of the case from Iceland's Farmers' Farms Association, the National Association of Cow Prayers, and a joint report from the Bjarnadóttir Laufey and others, as well as the Association of Communicators in the dairy industry and others. The bill suggests that the import laws of the animal are added to the genetic code for the import of human components, allowing for similar rules and the import of pig genetics. In 1st. The bill suggests that cattle are added to the list of species of animals that fall under the term isolation station. Two. The bill is extended to Minister at 13 st. The law to allow the import of the DNA from acceptable sex reformers or sperm centers so that it can also reach human pleasures. 13th. a current law allows for the import of furs in cages, embryonized poultry eggs, fish and their genetics and pigs and their genetics. B-team 2. The bill is suggested Article 3 of Article 1. 13th par. The law disappears, which means that when a person is assured that an animal in a isolation station does not maintain an infectious disease according to a chief animal surgeon's assessment and that his permission can be transferred to any other animal. C- team 2. It is stated that transgenic components of live flesh will not be allowed to be transferred from the isolation center; however, from there they may be exported the items grown from imported DNA into the isolation center by permission of a superior animal physician and by providing details of the specified conditions. 1.mg. 13th par. The law. There's a food clinic in D- force 2. The bill is authorized to allow the import of the genetic components if met the condition of 8 g. The law of the law, i.e. that a medical examination has been conducted by an official veterinarian and that the embryo, eggs or sperm comes from an approved sexual reform centre. It is suggested that the Agency can recommend further research conditions and, if conditions are not met, licenses, genetic loss, and control animals should be canceled. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested that the product of the Food Agency for collection for monitoring, management and import reviews under the law be supported. A similar law is found in the law of No. 93/1995, on food, and on law No. 22/1994 for monitoring of food, cream and seedy products. A greater share of the objective of the bill is to improve and promote the production of beefs, and it is considered a means of parishion for Icelandic agriculture to feed cattle of cattle. In addition to the import of genetics, it was noted in the Committee to improve and promote beef production and to improve yield in this article. The majority suggest that there will be effort to increase professionalism, good management of livestock, and generally good farming practices in sheep farms and that it, as such, can have a good future. The use of sperm from cattle of flesh to produce meat in dairy cows for a single hybrid breed does not appear to be significant. The majority suggest that the manufacture and shedding of the gene will be regarded for this use and that the rules take into account the risks of such use. The majority of the data show that the import of genetics in Icelandic livestock is a difficult piece of work, and it has been isolated, and many livestock diseases are unknown here. A lot of wealth and opportunities are involved in it for Icelandic agriculture. Isolation and strict transmission of infectious diseases are a basis for good public health and minimise the spread of various viral diseases. Since domestic animals have long been isolated, diseases that do not result in much poor economic conditions, where they are endemic, can cause great harm to the land if they arrive here. For the Committee, a genetic import factor was identified in a single farm, and it was claimed to the Committee that no gene import should be allowed, either embryonal or sperm. The majority of the reports show that strict surveillance will be carried out by the bill and the provision of the items growing from the imported genetics will be subject to conditions. A greater proportion of them point out that they have already been given genetics for a number of farms that have walked without major trauma. This type of import has been dependent on strict conditions and specific monitoring as well as on substantial genetic requirements and licenses issued at any given time. The manufacture of genetics for the sex of human partners has been performed here in one country, among other, by import of the Stesey Steene Center for Disease Prevention. This situation is no longer available, but import in this way cost a fortune. In 2011, in turn, a task force on beef production and the position of the human flesh stock in Iceland was appointed by the then marine export and agricultural ministers. Also, in 2013, the then professional and innovation minister appointed a group to review the results of the above and to report the growth of beef production in Iceland in July 2013. The beliefs of these two groups of work are that it is not possible to improve the breeds of flesh that are used for herd farming and a single hybrid culture without a new gene import. For example, on the part of the National Association of Cows, the National Association of Farmers, Iceland's Farmer Association, the National Institutes of the University of Iceland at Kölders and the National Agriculture University of Iceland, it was sought to assess the risks of the import of human particles and, at the request of the Ministry, also discussed the matter with the veterinary Council. In 1st. the import of the animal is defined as the term insulation station, which is the antimicrobial position for animal species listed in addition to their genetic makeup. A minister can do so. 7. The Act of Regulation states that the proposal of Food Agency, the requirements for isolation centres. After working groups, two suggestions are provided, one as suggested by A and the other: the key differences between the term isolation station, transport of cattle from isolation centres and monitoring and monitoring infectious diseases in the isolation station. There is also a difference in the length of time between the leaving of an alien gene - derived catch. The majority stress that the full precautionary procedure for the preparation and implementation of the gene import work as per the bill will be taken. The majority believe that Proposition of A in principle should be based on the manufacture and import requirements, the implementation of genetic import requirements and the facilities for the isolation station, but the proposed proposal is a package leaflet with the opinion of the person. The majority believe that the gene import will be directed by the embryos at the isolation station and recommended by the secretary for the requirements for the isolation of the regulations, as previously observed. Requisitions for isolation centres establish the Minister in Regulation. It will take into account such views as close to farms keeping cattle and the size of an area without a animal. Reborn cells will be allowed to distribute from isolation centres at 9◯12 months of age after the exception of the study and an assessment of the risk that there may be a transmission of disease. Similarly, it would be permitted to remove sperm for cryo-conservation of the same items. A greater proportion of these estimates indicate that cattle will not be transferred from a isolation station until 9 to 12 months of age than previous studies for future breeding and sex reforms in farms. Also, monitoring for disease should be performed. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Hv. Senators Kristján L. Möller and Eldar Ástþórsson were absent from the situation. Under these publications. Councilmen of Ásmundur Friðriksson, here on behalf of the prominent, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, President Jón Gunnarsson, Chairman of Kristján L. Möller, in advance, Fjóla Hrund Björnsdóttir, Þórstein Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Eglsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u53	Mr. President. Listening to what was very interesting. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson reviews this case. I thank you for how well she's done in a very complex case. Clearly, certain dangers can be the result of importing the DNA of this kind, but in any case. On behalf of the committee, a senator apparently feels that it is okay and surprised me a little bit that the committee suggested that the bill be accepted as unchanged. It means that it is acceptable to move in genetics in a way that leads to what is right. A senator described. At 93/412 months of age, cattle can be distributed as long as they are affected by disease risks and are also requested to continue monitoring their disease. However, this is a way in which a person thinks it is acceptable to import DNA into cattle. In this case, the subject is spoken of as a bulldoer. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that this too is a method, especially after a good experience has been developed, in order to grant the wishes of a new bovine generation to produce milk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the answer. It was not easy to make a recommendation for the Commission's opinion in the absence of time. paritaprevir Haraldur's son Benediktsson, who is a great expert in these matters and our best man, I now ran into the gap. In fact, I've observed that, of course, it's hard for senators to stand here and decide what kind of embryo or semen to move to the country. We don't have any experts in it. We have listened to the good people who came before the committee and gave us advice. This is the result of the greater part of the inquiry about the new cowkind, and I have to refer to the experts who came to the Committee, of course, that they had to give us some sense of it. I've said it before in this room that in such cases, difficult cases, it's certainly just experts working on and getting conclusions. And of course, the peasant class had to agree on what way to handle these matters, but do not leave us here at the council with the added effort to finish the matter. I don't think it'll ever be handled gently enough. As mentioned in the report, the main value of Icelandic agriculture is purity, and we need to maintain it properly. It is of utmost importance for the future that clean meat is available without disease and without any drug use, or small, as Icelandic farming and fish culture, and more is naturally known. But that may be the thin answer I give to this good senator, but the best of my ability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u55	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee my part of the employment committee on bill to correct the animal import law, No. 54/190, with subsequent changes (cattle material). The minority feels that the threat of moving in both embryos and sperm is high for Icelandic agriculture. If the smaller part is concerned that it should not be taken at such risk, there is a high risk for transmission of infectious diseases in Icelandic livestock which would have an expected harm. The minority feels strongly that a democratic debate is being conducted on the subject of the bill that experts, farmers and representatives of Iceland's Farmers Association are participating. The import will open the import of a new cow sex. The minority points out that the Icelandic cow sex has a global situation, and it can be noted that in 2003 the import of the embryos was high when it was due to be transferred from Norwegian dairy cows by the then agricultural minister. Regarding the matter, the Committee received a letter stating that the Icelandic sheep and the Icelandic petan family have high protection values, among other things, due to high genetic polymorphisms and need to take into account the total interest of Icelandic agriculture. As it is not excluded that isolation centres will become more than one, the risk of transmission of infectious diseases is substantially increased and that the smaller fractions are unacceptable to take similar risks. It may be noted that the interests of all farmers, not just those who intend to cultivate cattle, are subject to the interests of all farmers. The smaller portion of it is an opportunity to increase the quality of the already existing herding of cattle and to increase the growth of these branches. Although the greater part has decided to address safety issues in its opinion, it is a large and controversial case among the people, farmers, genetic experts, infectious diseases, and veterinary surgeons. It can also be noted that conditions for the insulation centres in the Regulation and that the majority do not suggest a change in the text of the bill will be able to relax the requirements later. The lesser part suggests that there is a much wider debate and that the case will not be decommissioned at the General Assembly in such a hurry and that the less part of the matter is right to allow the council to slow down in these matters. It is not true to look only for the interests of those who intend to take advantage of the possibilities of the bill and to reiterate the smaller interests of a lot of interest for the health of the Icelandic farm and the whole farm class. Under this view, the writer of the above article, Lilja Sturdy Rafney Magnúsdóttir. At the end, I want to know that a panel of left greens will not interfere with the sexual reform of cattle to increase meat production and production of cattle. If this occurs, all safety issues relating to the risk of transmission of infectious diseases must be identified, ensuring isolation centres and selecting the most secure pathways. In this regard, I don't think that this discussion has reached that point, is not mature enough, in both the article itself and among the experts who are familiar with it. That's why I don't think we're under some pressure in this regard about getting so much tourists into the country and we're going to need yesterday to be able to meet the great addition to beef and want Icelandic beef at restaurants, and we need to speed up this process with these legislation so that national producers can increase the supply of beef as soon as possible. This is a bigger issue than it can be isolated from it. Although I understand well that cattle producers and carnivorous producers in that sector want to have the best and most Icelandic meat on an invitation, there must also be slow access to the door of joy in those materials. There are global interests under which I think we need to discuss further and reach our conclusions, and it is democratic that the profession itself, the farm organization, has the opportunity to discuss these matters in its own fields and experts to bring in this discussion so that it can be considered in the context that the safety grounds for the transmissible disease are placed there in full priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u56	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the Commission for their work. I am very pleased with the visitors who were called before the committee to discuss this matter. I declare my pleasure with what is presented in the committee sheet of the greater part, that in the c- team 2.g. if it is not permitted to import the genetically derived pieces of meat from an isolation station, however, it may be moved from the items that have grown from imported DNA to the isolation center by permission of a superior animal physician to provide specific conditions. In fact, this is what has been said about leaving the so - called proselytism of AA. I am very happy that this is what was given to be discussed when it was recommended, that there is an application for Icelandic agriculture to do here the farming of phonies and to do much additional work to improve and improve the development of beef production and the growth of the article. I also feel positive about the effort that the greater part encourages to increase the professionality, the good treatment of livestock, and the general quality of herd farming. In this case, I would like to agree with a greater proportion of the committee that highlights the full precaution of preparing and implementing the gene import procedure under the bill and that the main steps of A's proposal for the manufacture and import requirements, on the implementation of the gene import and the requirements for a facility in the isolation centre, in particular those clearly revealed in the committee list, should be undertaken with caution and the need to have a very good monitoring of disease during this procedure. A respectable president. I come up mainly here to emphasize that this bill is merely a matter of genetic DNA. If this bill were to go further, such as the import of other livestock or even the milk cow sex, I would have more than one part of the Icelandic cow prayer. Some years ago, they joined a survey of the National Association of Cows and rejected that idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u57	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee board with a projection of a bill for a reservation based on a greater portion of the General and Education Committee, available on panels. 1440. The bill is designed to create a legal basis to ensure a complete protection based on its protection. Building values include phenotypes, artistic values, and cultural history of the region. The Bar of the bill aims for the protection of communities to become a special task of rural society, in consultation with a minister who deals with national culture. In order to ensure the protection of the local core or urban areas with a maintenance value, it is suggested that, following the rural election, rural governments should consider whether within their habitats are built as a reason to suggest to the minister that protection areas should be implemented. It is suggested that Iceland's Minja Institute will be represented as counselling to local administration but that this task could be entrusted to a Minister of the Minja Institute. It is also suggested that a minister be assigned to the Minja Institute to make a suggestion that certain settlements, which, in the opinion of a minister, have a national security value, will become a national reservation. Finally, it is one of the objectives of the bill that citizens and other stakeholders will be given the opportunity to promote views before implementing a reservation that could influence their conservation value. As mentioned in the Committee of the United States, the Committee has brought in visitors from the Ministry of Presidency, the Organization, the International Society, the National Museum of Iceland, the Minja Agency, Reykjavíkurburg and the ICOMS. There were 16 sources of reviews on the case, and eight meetings were handled with the case. The reviews and discussions of the panel meetings reflected a different attitude toward the bill. In particular, they directed on the integration of rural and government projects. In contrast with the bill, it can be said that there are three main points on the subject of the bill. First, the viewpoint of those who do not feel the need for increased legal bases to ensure the overall protection of their habitats and thus make the bill unnecessary. Second, those who consider the need to be present and who agree with the primary objective but who want to follow other ways of ensuring a legal foundation, such as by checking whether the project can be converted into organizational law and/or law on memory protection, and finally the viewpoint reflected in the bill to ensure complete protection, based on their principles of preservation, requires specialisation. Clearly, the idea of maintaining value not only in single buildings or in smaller objects but also in the interaction between different aspects of the environment, the overall appearance of buildings in a designated area, certain common characteristics of the structure and its relationship with local, environmental, and historical factors must be ensured. The bill assumes that a minister will decide whether a specific urban core or an urban area will be assigned to protect areas of the population. The committee discussed this as a minister in the light of criticism as shown in the reviews. It was observed that like any other government, a minister is bound by administrative principles, recorded as unsolved, and should make decisions on the basis of objective views. The criteria that should be taken into account in making such a decision are clearly stated in the bill. It was also noted that the role of a minister under the law had a parallel in other laws aimed at protecting culture and nature. However, a majority of the committee also points out that rural communities are assigned an important function in accordance with the criteria of the bill, and protection based on conservation values is expected to become a major part of their work. The committee meetings discussed that the bill does not set a time frame for when environmental protection suggestions have been implemented. The majority of the data show that this work can already begin on the basis of local administrations, but according to the clear terms of the bill, it should be performed no later than after the next district election planned in 2018 and in combination with the standard development of rural society on planning programs and thereafter every four years to a minimum. The committee discussed the terms that define the subject field and the goals of the law. On the part of a reviewer, it was noted that the accuracy and harmony of the term used in a few of the articles of the bill are a result of a change to be made by a change of motion at Articles 3 and 4. On the part of the narrative, a lack of cooperation was made with the inhabitants in preparing for the urban reservations. One of the objectives of the bill is that citizens can communicate their views before making a decision about a reservation or an agreement for the protection of a whip. A greater estimate is that it is in the spirit of the bill that citizens and interested persons have additional opportunities to come up with proposals for protection on the preparatory level and thus contributes to the greater extent of their proposals. The Committee discussed the plan to remove part of organizational law, No. 123/2010, about neighborhood protection, but the plans were somewhat critical of the source. The work of the Committee gave the view that despite the proposed protection rules based on conservation values and neighborhood protection that local communities make decisions in planning programmes, largely the same objectives are associated with a wide range of differences. It is therefore not that a decision to protect areas based on an excluded decision to address the neighborhood protection of rural society in a strategy or that a decision to protect areas based on the exclusion of rural society from adopted national protection regulations in its strategy. An arrangement in a neighborhood protection programme can also provide guidance when it comes to shape the proposal and decision making for a reservation based on the rules of the bill. In accordance with the above, the greater part contributes to the loss of plans for changes in focal protection guidelines. At the meetings of the Committee, the bill's penalty was discussed. The greater part of the assessment is that the wording of the Law may be clearer and, therefore, a change in word. The committee also discussed page 5 of Article 12. the bill that assumes to be 5 mg. Thirty-seven. " God Is With All Things, " No. 123/2010, which calls for the construction of the buildings and the neighborhood structure, will be removed. Buildings were found to play an important role in the preservation of buildings, areas, and disappearing. The bill also assumes that they contain important information when it comes to evaluation of local and regional maintenance values. Thus, the majority suggest that there be a continuing obligation to implement housing for the deportation of a fragmentation structure in the area according to the aforementioned guidelines of planning, as well as that other cases of the neighborhood organization fall away. The majority suggest that the bill should be agreed with the changes made. However, the manager wishes that the b- and c-joints will be drawn to 3rd. at the same time, an executive wishes that the case be referred to the committee between discussions. These two teams are involved in a search and a neighborhood organization, and they ask for a manager who wants the committee to take over a better course of action, turning neighborhood arrangements between the discussion. As a result, the change taken up in the Commission's opinion of dwelling will not be a vote until the year 3rd. Under countless printed page. Senator Konráðsdóttir Konásdósdósdóttur, Chairman of Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u58	A respectable president. I'm so new to the council that I have to pray. A senator to help me understand just one thing about this bill that I don't see being explained in the members of the section, i.e. on the occasion and need of the law. In comment with the bill, it says that the law is the government's policy declaration rather than the actual need for it. And in fact, the next line shows that there are laws in law and in two different laws that cover the content of this bill. So I'd like to hear from you. A member of this bill adds to the legal environment today, not to complicate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As mentioned in my talk earlier, there are differences in viewpoints about the bill just about whether this is the case. The basis for the bill and the occasion is that conservation value is not limited to single buildings or memory as material items, but may be accompanied by differences in environmental factors, which say overall and similar to buildings in the specific areas and common characteristics of the environment, environment, location, history, and globalisation. We can take, for example, an old shopping center in a small rural area across the country. There has been a slight misunderstanding about the bill, that it could not apply to a rural core, which may well be true, such as an old apartment house and house if the whole has a maintenance value in itself. The bill is based on the high value of preserving the entire body of this kind, while they were certainly showing that there was no need for it, that would be sufficiently assured. But the longer I work with the bill, the more convinced I that this is where we have a new tool that doesn't exist in the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u60	A respectable president. I still scratch my head. I understand the legal environment as it is today, so that single buildings are mostly covered with cultural laws, while whole, symmetrical, and larger than single buildings fall under planning laws, which is a recent and careful legal code, which I know is the best thing to do about these matters. It remains that the motive is drawn to this policy declaration, as well as a statement that the government will not establish new legislation without repealing other legislation. This is where the code of the law is added to me, where there are two perfectly parallels.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u61	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I can agree with a leader, and it repeatedly appeared to the committee as regards neighborhood arrangements that came into place with the last changes in organizational laws taking over this role. However, the work and comments given to the committee, both before and after the committee's review, have led to further consideration that neighborhood arrangements do not cover the objectives of this bill. The periodical structure, as it is thought, and as it is implemented in a organizational order, is much more likely to coordinate the existing shared structure in a specific neighborhood or harmonisation in the context of the existing shared group and possibly other areas that have never been shared. You can think of it as if you put together ten different colors of a placenta, some have been disorganized, others not, and when it all comes together, you have a neighborhood organization that is then some sort of intervening step between a shared organization and a major organization and perhaps a better tool for the rural community to cover neighborhood control, where organization may vary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u62	Mr. President. I'm just going to go over this bill on the reservation. I think most people would agree to protect the settlements and foundations under the bill. But it's all about, as it was said in the very words, the reason for putting special laws or sharpens on the existing laws and laws, because I think that we would have to clean up the law rather than grow the law. The fact that some one prime minister at any given time is particularly interested in certain specific matters does not result in a special legal arrangement. I'm going to go over the committee opinion of my share. As we noted earlier, the meetings of the committee and the reviews on the subject that there is evidence that there is a great difference, but this does not change the general agreement that people generally agree on the goals below. For example, members of the rural community believed that there was a significant lack of cooperation with rural society, which, of course, is just being walked in here. In the memory of the section, we feel that it is absolutely unacceptable that the case that takes the organizational authority of a community to their self-control. These are basic adjustments in organizational laws, and it is really unacceptable not to work in broad consultations. In such a discussion, it would likely have been dismissed or found another channel, as described in the opinion of many. It's 5 mg. Section 4. The bill will make a secretary's decision for protection based on the proposal of the county government or the Iceland Minjah Institute. The minority agrees with the viewpoint of the writer that this proposed war against the planning of their rural society, one of the cornerstones of their own decision - making rights. Instead of approaching a preservation value based on one part of a rural organization, a minister is given authority in these matters without having a valid material argument. As we noted earlier, this is primarily the government's declaration of policy on the subject and on the bill. This includes assessments of preservation values and coverage of the break-in with other organizational activities that conflict with the objective of the problem and increases the risk of a historical perspective being placed on the table. According to my share, the transfer of power from rural governments is critical in a way proposed to one minister, whoever he is at any given time. The rural government is a multi-organized administration appointed democratically elected representatives closest to its citizens, with a general planning of the country's inhabitants. In view of my part, this would be a thoughtful consideration of the individual serving as prime minister at a time. Such an arrangement depends on Ministership and can cause unforeseenity and uncertainty in all decision making. The reviews to the Committee show that by separating the framework and decision-making of a reservation based on the general organization of rural society, laws in this field are greatly increased and this indicates that the overall planning of the programme is to be weighed. It should now be our objective that is here to set laws and regulations to simplify rather than compromise when it comes to relations between the state and the community and the city. In particular, the memory of the part is referred to the rest of the Agency's review, which does not consider any improvement in the order of this kind. On the contrary, streamlining, clear planning procedures and increasing transparency are needed. In view of the memory of the part, it would have been better to find the objectives and subject of the bill within the laws that protect similar values, especially organizational laws, No. 123/2010, and cultural law, No. 80/2012. We are here talking about a relatively recent law that would then have had a sharper, better - off, or whatever else people would have talked about in this sort of consultation, as explained here that it had not occurred, and that it had identified who really needed and the lack of it to make an improvement in these areas or to get the opportunity to do it in this way. In this way, it would have been possible to integrate work related to areas of protection based on local planning. The bill does not assume a lawsuit for Ministers' decision on reservations. In view of the memory of the section, it is a principle in Icelandic administrative rights that the administrative decision is revised to the superior authorities. This review is designed to improve the security of the citizens, and it also increases the likelihood that objective viewpoints will be involved in taking the administrative decision. There is no argument here to back up this principle. All developments in organizational legislation over the past few years have been marked by the growth of transparency and self - control and the survival of the population at all levels. Here is strongly countering the trend, further development of Ministers, and complexities as well. It is easy to see that the bill has a key or that it is designed to increase the security of historical communities. Because of this and the small talk the lesser part gave when the subject was presented, these comments were made along with others. Granted, the case has been worked and corrected, and it should still be done, but that does not mean that in the smaller parts we feel that this is unnecessary, and it can be found within the laws we already live in and should be changed or corrected. Under these words, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðvað Hannesson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, and Páll Valur Björnsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u63	A respectable president. At the Environment and Transport Committee, we were asked to consider certain aspects of the matter. We did, and we got a party at our meeting, but we didn't see why we had a special opinion on the committee. I'd like to express support for the opinion of a greater part of the General and Education Committee that had this case for discussion. I know that they also studied all the factors, and they did so very professionally and carefully. We received almost a common report from the Union of Iceland, New York City, U.S.A. I have to comment on the fact that the relationship seems to have taken a stand for one community in excess of another because there are, as it were, different opinions on this bill and quite special to see almost consistent opinions from these partners and I have to say very critical. It was discussed on the self - determination rights of a local partner and why. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir left it loose. I see that the minority criticizes the fact that there is a general law, in effect, to limit their own decision-making rights. I'd like to, in the context of that point, point to the 78th floor. The Constitution, which shows that rural communities themselves are in control of their affairs as the law decides. So there is a law that determines the self - determination rights of rural society. It is good to keep it in place during the discussion because it has washed up here and there, and it has even been brought forward that the right of self - determination is holy and we must not interfere with it. I would like to point out that it is not just us that are discussing it in one way or another or that restricts this self - determination right, the last government did likewise. I'd like to read from the laws on the protection and energy efficiency programme. It states in the 7th C.E. that the protection and energy efficiency programme is binding to the development of planning plans. Agricultural governments should conform to the current regional, primary, and disorganization programmes of the GDP programme within four years of its approval, scr. 2nd, though. where there is a delay to adapt the organization to the government's decision at any given time. The report or comment says that the plan is expected to be binding to the development of planning plans and rural administrations according to the harmonisation of the national, primary and shared plan of the Protection and Management Plans. This is a principle in the law, which was the exception of rural governments being permitted to postpone land use to a certain number of years. When this was done in the last government, I studied a few subjects and discussions. The European Union, which took the responsibility of protecting the self - determination rights, was to criticize them in a very harsh way at the time. Thus, they are very parties to themselves when they criticize this self - determination right every time we change. I would also like to mention that in the treatment of a national organization, the issue of whether it was not, for example, by protecting Iceland's central areas, that I know there are a lot of people wanting to do, being involved in the self - determination rights of the rural community that have land on the central area, we actually got a city of Reykjavík, which naturally thought that it was all the people of the country who made a decision on the central area. This is the only way I'm pointing out that it looks like a person. When this turns to rural areas in their homes, it seems that they are available to criticize, when removed, they feel that this is a normal thing, although it is always a criticism of the Union's own self - determination rights. But as I pointed out, we have it under consideration, not only in the laws that we will soon accept here, but in many other laws. We agreed to create a transport plan for the development of a transport board the other day, which, of course, provides transportation lines to its whole transport system and is removed from the will of individual rural communities, although they have access to all these issues. Other than that, I want to reiterate that I support this bill whole mind. The purpose of the law is clear. This is part of the Declaration of Independence Class and Front Class. They're working on it. I think it's very necessary and urgent to set these laws. Sadly, we have seen that shelters have not received sufficient protection, and with these laws, it will likely be possible to retain beautiful clusters and groups so that they will not be destroyed, there are certain national interests involved in doing so. I can see why. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, will nod here. That's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u64	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Hv. A senator concluded by his review that the purpose of the law was both urgent and important because it is supported by a government Declaration of Cooperation, but may not be referring to the material reasons why the matter is presented. I would like to ask him if he had any examples of whole or community life that have been particularly affected by existing legislation, both in terms of the laws on protection and organizational laws. Is there any confusion in the legislation that has already been addressed to the local community? The matter was sent to the Environment and Transport Committee. As mentioned in the case of what? The Councilman and chairman of the Committee were not considered to be a reason for the request of the committee. So I want to ask you why. A senator would be able to sum up a group of visitors who came to the committee regarding this matter. In his case, he said that it was the case with each individual. I myself do not remember hearing support for the matter among the visitors who visited the committee, and I am there talking about both the city of Reykjavík, the Organization, and the European Union. So I ask why. A senator: What reviews supported the matter, according to his memory?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u65	A respectable president. In view of the greater part of the General and Education Committee, there is an excellent mountain and a special section on the subject and objective of the bill. It adds to what is stated in the report by the bill itself. That's a question like that. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir got an answer earlier, and I made that comment in my speech. I think it's very important, and I didn't see better than that men would agree with me about it here in the hall just before, to set these legislation. If I could mention some of the shelters, I would like to be a little more comfortable with myself about the neighborhoods here in Reykjavík, but I could imagine that building in the Gringape village would have looked different if the entire area could have been protected. I can see why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is nosing around here, saying yes. If those laws had been present then, surely they would have been able to preserve the magnificent houses there. I could name a neighborhood in Akureyri. For example, I can picture Intown, which is probably one of the most beautiful places in the country where the British count, which is beautiful, but both there and downtown Akureyri, are very many beautiful old houses, which I think very important to protect. I'll try to answer more fully all the questions that were raised to me in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u66	President. Thank you. A senator's answers as far as they can reach them were found to be acceptable to add them in his second answer. I have personally felt that the goals of the bill are important and that I have personally, both at the scene of the city of Reykjavík and here at the General Assembly, spoken for protection, feel that the community is especially important. But I don't see that it's the right way to do this special course and would have thought that the project could be strengthened by stating more clearly on these matters both in the organizational laws and in the laws on memory protection. I believe that in view of what is stated in the cooperation of the government parties, where people have a promise of the general practice of simplifying administration and making it more beneficial, it would have been in the spirit of achieving these and more objectives of the government, because I think that there are a great many of these visions, by a different route than the special way. I have not yet seen any arguments that directly recommend that methodology. I can hear it in a case or something. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Liquík that she tore something of a different way to achieve this goal. Hv. A member of the United States wrote that it was strange that the relationship would be standing beside Reykjavíkurburg in this case and that it was largely at the right of self - determination. Wait a minute. A senator to review with me the viewpoint that the relationship brought on as far as the neighborhood structure that is concerned, yes, the matter of, well, Reykjavík alone, so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u67	A respectable president. I try to answer a question directed to me in a previous answer, and I try to come in briefly. I mentioned in my opinion that in this matter, as so many others seem to each other. I'm sure we can debate the ways in which it is decided to go and look who it is. My opinion is that this is a good approach. I may not completely agree with what. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's diaper is concerned that there are little or no charges. It is my request that the court's route is always effective and the courts can be reported, as I know the administrative rights. Regarding those who were positive, Deepavogshrepps produced a very positive attitude. They're sitting there, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, If I recall correctly, there was a very positive Hafnarfjörður and a fine thing it was, at least this way in the beginning until they got a phone call. [[Up front.]] That was interesting. The important thing is we're going to use it here at 78th. The constitution. We use authority to decide what will depend on our community's own personal rights. It tells us that the right that has now been called is as far from being holy as possible. Here's a good bill. There's been a lot of bait removed. I am happy to learn that even though the smaller part may not agree, at least he agrees with the objective of the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u68	A respectable president. This subject is a great deal, and we can accept many, most of its articles in the bright future. However, when it comes to deciding how to share customs, the majority of the committee suggest that they do so by invitation or auction, and that is simply a method leading to a rising price and affecting consumers. We suggest, in a bright future, that the excess press will be divided by lots, and encourage the Senate to vote for that change in our capacity. It's for the benefit of consumers, and I hope we'll find some of that conclusion below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u69	Mr. President. This case of tollovata, as well as the fact that it is being carried out by the European Community to the Food Agency and, of course, by the National Association, to the Food Organization. The Food Organization is primarily a surveillance provider and there are projects involved in the implementation of a livestock contract and plans and collection of information. I believe that these projects will go to the Food Institute, but I also have the warning that these are the very projects that can be located, stored anywhere in the country, and that you need to make a good analysis of the activities of the Food Agency and the activities involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Committee for taking care of the case and I've covered it well. With regard to the proposal presented here from the smaller parts of the auction or to the lot, it has to be said, as is the method of coining. She ended up having one party. A large party had many landmarks, and took all, all of it. This does not involve competition, which does not involve consumer protection. We're here to propose a change because the situation of litigation is in place, has been referred to the Supreme Court. If that conclusion turns out to be true in any way, we will have to deal with it for the next winter, but in order to have the legal authority on our side, we will suggest one way out, hold one. But it's not as good as it sounds at first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u71	A respectable president. I encourage a body of Congress to study these adjustments, and I don't agree that taxes are raised directly here by legalizing that way to the highest level. Seafood and agricultural ministers must provide tollovate. This is not a benefit to consumers, it is not a free trade for the good. It may not be perfect, but this way is quite bad, adding curses to consumers, and that's why I say yes to this change. I urge you to learn more about her and say yes to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u72	A respectable president. I'm amazed at what this has to do with reasonableness, and I'm looking at the spokesmen of freedom of business making our proposal in a bright future. I don't buy that argument that even though there was once a coin toss and one company took the whole thing, you just give up. They'll find new ways. It is true that there is no perfect system, but it is far better than an invitation to increase prices of merchandise to consumers. I can't believe I'm watching people make our proposal and vote with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u73	Mr. President. I'm afraid this bill reflects how badly the decision was at its time to bring some of the cultural issues away from the highest level. Secretary of education to the highest. Prime Minister. That transfer has caused unnecessary complications in these issues. Even if I have 1st. on this issue, the objective of this bill, which is to increase protection when it comes to focal points, does not reach the point itself. We don't have the complete mind here. In this context, I'd like to point out that a state reexamination has recently expressed its opinion that the transfer of this suit has to be reconsidered, whether he was correct. I think this case will show that the decision was badly planned. This is a further misunderstanding, a complicated group, and a confusing of goals that are otherwise valid. That's why we're going to be in the left movement, the green supply is going against this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u74	A respectable president. This matter cannot be explained in a way that is different from that of the highest level. As with many, the prime minister has an interest in protecting historical communities and put it here as a bill to take anything that is designed to protect historical settlements within the organizational laws, of course, and to submit to the authority of his Ministry. It's natural with amazing things. One wonder if later ministers do so no matter what kind of legal environment we will receive, look for their interests. This is a terrible bill. It will be interesting to see how a body of Congress votes against the will of local rulers and a number of narratives. This, of course, is in the setting up of organizational laws. Even if there's a chance there's something going to be better, there's going to be some way between 2 and 3. ... we'llin a short future, of course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u75	President. This is one of the surprising issues that have been discussed at the General Assembly. Piranha is totally against this case. There were not many positive comments about the case in which these laws cover the case. I'm sorry, but I don't think it's going to make any changes between the 2nd and 3rd. Because we're going into a great hurry right now. I suppose this is one of the events that will ever be sent back in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u76	Mr. President. I had requested to present my vote here, as I now sit in a General and Education Committee where this case has been discussed. The purpose of the bill is the government's declaration of policy. There is really nothing behind it but interest to the highest degree. The prime minister is to take this matter and this lawsuit should be taken to him. This is mainly a complication of the administrative situation against the rural communities that have repeated and that of both the city of Reykjavík and the Organization have twice made very convincing comments against the fact that the matter is presented in this way. You don't have to do that. If there's any need to sharpen the protection of the community, we're going to do it in current laws, but we're not going to have legal issues. It's our job to reduce the number of the law than to increase it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u77	A respectable president. As an authority, I've requested that B-and-c-a- team 5 be changed by Article 12. to be drawn through 3rd. As a result of this search and neighborhood organization, the Commission will be more concerned with the directions of a neighborhood planning between discussions, resulting in a change for the search not a vote until the 3rd. It is proper to note that the steps involved in straddling with organizational laws have been changed to the changes made by the committee, so that the criticism presented from earlier on. paritaprevir The Guðmundur son of Steingrímsson is not entitled in all respects to what the suggestions seem to be today. A discussion of the matter earlier made clear on the basis of laws and viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u78	Mr. President. The plan is not expected to include recently developed collective agreements, tax reforms or emissions, but these will have a significant impact on the financial situation over the next few years. The minority has suggested to the budget board that this budget plan will be reassigned, processed, and won better in the fall, since it is not clear what is the basis for the state budget. A government is bound. However, more than a part of the budget suggests that the plan will be agreed as unchanged, and thereby the premise that if a collective agreement with government employees contributes to more than a 2% increase in financial gain at the expense, and those who have to rely on social security benefits get only 1% increase in money. In the United States, we vote against this right-hand policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u79	Mr. President. There's far too much in this national budget. There's a lot of loose conduct in it because the assumptions have changed, opportunities are not new to fix them. When a minister comes to the legal committee, he does not consider it a reason, despite the fact that the plan is not being held. She doesn't keep anything. It's not a stick, there's nothing to say. Ministers have to follow something or something. This is done to fulfill the Senate. It looks like it when you put in a plan that makes it clear that you can't resist. To speak of that context is a well-founded, respectable president, for while plans can certainly change, where they're planning, there's really no play here, it's just that. That's why we left green isn't gonna be able to pay our votes to this palm.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u80	A respectable president. There's too much unclear, and you stick to this council resolution, and it's not a parking spot, it's a pact proposal. I say as those who have come before me, In what respect does this minister bind his hands? in what respect is he bound by these things? For example, there is talk of a reduction in insurance bills and a project reduction plan, which has actually been abandoned in other areas. Unfortunately, in a short future, we cannot vote for this council-sense proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u81	A respectable president. I thought I was joking when I was told that men put up a lot of pressure to finish this case, because if the case isn't just already about themselves over changes that have happened then the government and the government are announcing that there will be a significant cut down on the welfare system. That's what's being proclaimed with the approval of this government budget. Otherwise, it's a dead end. A respectable president. This budget also includes further increases in food taxes. So I have to say, unless it all goes together, I'm amazed at the pressure of putting it through. We in the United States say no because we don't want to see more tax on food, we care about the welfare system, and we're not interested in having a share in seeing it read further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u82	Mr. President. I'm going up here to state that for the first time, it is important that the Congress clears out the national budget, which is now presented in a special Senate document for the first time. I'd like to thank the Committee for finishing the case. My hopes were that we would take a serious talk about long - term financial prospects, about how people wanted to see the state's debt ratios developed, how they wanted to see the money ratings for the next few weeks, how they looked at the government's income side in the past but don't think they'd think about it over saying that something had happened in a few weeks that changed the little numbers of the state budget into the next year. I'm sorry, but we've done a little bit of this. Of course, prospects are changing all the time, and of course a plan such as this will be virtually out - of - date in a few weeks after being submitted to the council. But we must be able to live by it and get to the bottom of a discussion about the big things. [[The president calls.]] This budget is put forward to discuss the big, broad lines. [[The president calls.]] Each year's budget will be further developed on that ideologies, so we need to get used to discussing these issues into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u83	A respectable president. A government budget should be a good document. This is the first time she is put forward here, marked a step in this council's activities, and marked a step in how to handle the state's budget. Therefore, it is entirely annoying, respectable President, that we have the Generals approved a blank document because all the assumptions have failed, or have failed, and are no longer able to resist. It has been recommended that this should be retracted in order to improve the work, in order to make this fancy tool not to destroy the first time that it is delivered. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u84	Mr. President. All I know is that I've done exactly what I've done as the highest. Secretary of finance just asked for here, at least 1st. on this matter, discussing almost exclusively the big picture and the future, and precisely expresses disappointments with the fact that this budget will draw up the future that there will be no further improvement in the survival of the State for the next three or four years, unfortunately, in view of this plan. Of course, now it has changed substantially, there is an event that can always be expected, of course, that plans at least Just a short period of time will be overcome by some unexpected event. I don't know if the council has the option, a respectable president, to accept this with some kind of conditions. There was once a problem with a student in a high school in a north country who had been struggling long to reach a student's test, and his school was actually half-worshiped, so the student was discharged by conditions, i.e. the conditions that he would never put his student's test to the test and not try to go to college. Perhaps we should issue this government budget with the conditions that the secretary of finance does not try to apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u85	A respectable president. The debate over this government budget has been very strange from the memory of the part. The big picture, like the highest, has not been made materially. The minister of finance went over here. [[Up front.]] Today's main talk was about the chairman of the budget board, so this has gone out in many parts of the world, it has gone out into many parts of the world. [[Up front.]] I'd like to remind the council again, as I went over today, that the budget bill will be released to the council in more than two months. So I think senators should wait quietly. The matter is far too late because of the speech that gripped members of the Parliament after a year's visit. This is the situation in which the council is in, more distinguished president, here, has reached no cause in the council for this. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It's too late for my approval, and I remind the senators that it's only two months until the bill comes out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u86	A respectable president. You don't really know what to do with this document. You can't really take it seriously. On the other hand, I came up here to state that I thought it was discussed at a Senate Hall, e.g. to 2nd Around, be good, everyone contributed to trying to talk about the broad lines. One thing I was interested in is: Should you really believe that no plans are made, so you can talk about public investments over the next few years? It is not to be seen, for example, that if you read this document, public investments will not hold back, and after a massive cutoff period where we have been holding back our investments. Can you take this seriously as a government plan? I don't think so. [[The president calls.]] It's all in the same book when it comes to this plan, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u87	Mr. President. If the highest. The financial and economic secretary has listened to the discussion, so we've been discussing the big picture. I find it very important that the members of the board understand when they vote for this national budget, one of the reasons for the big picture of spending, is that if the financial growth of a government employee exceeds 2% per year during the course of the program, they will be cut down at the expense. That is the basis for the policy on spending. Another thing that I think is very serious is that those who have to rely on social security benefits are expected to gain an increase of 1%, a decrease in money gain than agreed. The largest wage that was negotiated at present in collective agreements is expected to increase 5% in income gain over the next four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u88	A respectable president. I remind you of a stand presented in the Committee's list of my members of the health committee on this matter. The minority supports the primary objective of the case, but they regret that there are no serious indications from the Children's Institutes of Children's Health, the Children's Agent, and others that the NTSB is still not in charge of this united committee. We support the changes made in the majority of the things because they all improve but cannot support the whole matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u89	Mr. President. This vote has three first-authorized modifications aimed at increasing around the decision making at the highest level. Ministers when it is decided to authorize foreign government ships to stay with rural communities. In other words, it is suggested that a ministerial servant be appointed. Second, it is suggested that a minister be made mandatory. Foreign Affairs Committee to deal with the presence of foreign Kingdom airs Third, the change is proposed, in view of the fact that in this bill we are dealing with special national groups and collaborators, not only the international organisations which we Icelanders are involved in, that we become forced measures that cannot be considered militantly to be used by these legislation in order to become part of something that might be called military and that has not been approved by international organisations. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to accept the proposed changes made by me. paritaprevir Óttar of Mr. Proppér, State Department agents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u90	V.E.G. President. We, in the bright future, support this bill for the Law on Education, despite the fact that certain faults have been carried out, which tend to depend on the lack of consultation with the partner. I believe that during the treatment of the Committee, the situation has changed dramatically. A pilot, a w. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir had done a very good job of responding to the comments and tips presented. Similarly, in view of the important role this institution plays, I think it is very important that it receive a good foundation and support. Then, in the face of tests, and we've seen how this will develop, we can make adjustments in order to strengthen it even more. We're in a bright future in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u91	Mr. President. I recommended the opinion of the lower share where we are, i.e. Me, what. paritaprevir Heissson, Guððu Hannesson, Guðbjartur. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, explained our comments about this bill and this institution. There are several factors that we mentioned there, but the whole process is the oddest. As we know from the discussion, the Agency has come into existence almost without the law. It is true that the matter has changed for the better than we in the left green do not see how this vote can be applied in view of the fact that there are several things we think must do better and better so that the bill can be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u92	Mr. President. We're going to vote for the import of the genetic components of a member of the human body. We left greens believe it is a great risk for Icelandic agriculture to import genetics, whether embryos or sperm, and it is considered that such risks should not be taken at risk of transmission of infectious diseases in Icelandic livestock that would have been irreprehensiblely damaged. It may be noted that the interests of all farmers, not just those who intend to cultivate cattle, are subject to the interests of all farmers. We feel that these things, the subject of the bill, are going to be overexploited. We will not violate the sexual reform of any local member of the world, but if so, all safety issues regarding the risk of infection must be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u93	V.E.G. President. As I said in my last discussion on this matter, it's being talked about a so-called a-way, which I'm more comfortable with leaving on this matter. This is merely a vote for the genetics of a bulldozers, and I strongly emphasize it and repeat here that if this bill in any way will promote the discussion of bringing in a new cowkind to the country, I will stand by a greater part of the Icelandic cow prayer to vote against the proposal when a survey was made at the National Community prayer. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u94	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's list, with a proposal to be made for the interpretation of the treatment plan and the provision of the resources reduced from the total budget at the same time. 5 mg. Section 8. legal about the control of fishing. The committee was contacted by a number of parties, including rural, stakeholders, and national relations between small boat owners and other submarines as well as marine organizations. The proposal contains some adjustments from the arrangement that is now valid. It's 5 mg. Section 8. the law, on the control of fish, accounts for 5.3% of the distribution of the energy-set species to specific programs required by the law. The total volume for the next fishing year is 30 o'clock. a ton. The proposal suggests that coastal fishing sources will be comparable to current fishing year, or about 8,600 tons, that shell and shrimp improvements will be reduced by one third, and that eutrophication will be reduced by eutrophication and increased by the construction level of the Agency. It is suggested that cross-country warrants remain unchanged from the current fishing year, that 300 tons of cod will be set aside for vacation fishing, and that sources of continued farming will be suspended in cod. It is also suggested that the means of mass fishing are sold for base fishing and 800 tons of silencing will be set aside for small boats under a certain size but need to make changes in the law of No. 116/2006, about the control of fishing. The law recommends that the Minister propose a judicial hearing for six years to be reviewed every three years. Where there is a report on the measures proposed and their practicality, a greater part is suggested by the proposal under consideration by the Council of 145. The majority suggest a few adjustments in the proposal. It's up to you. Since the current fishing year, tons go to coastal fishing, and they become available sources of an increase of 400 tons. Some balances seem to be at sea fishing, a number of boats stay relatively stable between the years, and they become part of the fishing process. The resulting effects of coastal fishing have been found in some of the large - scale settlements, especially in ports and in coastal fishermen. However, according to the assessment of Haust was published in the publication, ▪ Good hunting and implementation, it is important to look at the results of a prospective assessment of the job and based effects of coastal fishing in the current analysis and mentioned above. The final three fishing years are as follows: It's up to 2 up to you. Tons will be set aside for shrimp and shelling, so it will remain the same from the current fishing year. However, energy may increase or decrease compared to a catch in an internal harlot. Energy to shell and shrimp improvement in the last three fishing years is as follows, and a fishing plan for 2015/2016 is the same as in the tables of the committee's opinion. Regarding the general urbanised population, it suggests that up to 7,353 tons will be set aside for a so - called general eutrophicate, so it will be the same as in the current fishing year. The quantity, however, depends on the final secretary's decision after assessment of the total amount available for these actions after the Fish Room market. In the report by Vífill Karlsson, ◯Mat on the implementation of the building centre, January 2015◯, in the affected marine wastes, as well as the agreement for a special urbanisation of the Agency, the conclusion is that the general urban population at these sites did not have an effect on increased infrastructure. It is important to complete the assessment that covers all users of the general market and to evaluate the impact on all areas of this strategy. You will find the amount of bread and water in the final three fishing years of the year in the tables of this committee. It is suggested that as many as 5,400 tons go to the construction market, the Agency will be reassigned to support marine waste in serious and acute problems as a result of reduction in the marine road. The amount, however, depends on the uncertainty of the volume of the exchange market. The first evidence is that the resources currently available for two years may be more effective than many of them have advanced the fishing system now available for employment, social, and geographic support. It is clear that more than a Based Office has already made agreements under the definition of the project. Significantly, the criteria and definitions of the project, such as population limits, and the definition of marine village in trouble, will be thoroughly reviewed. In order to make the project more effective and more effective, careful consideration should be given in the above report by the son of Vífill Karlsson. The final two fishing years of the tables I witness to and follow the committee's opinion have been determined by the source of a special urbanised farm agency. Some 5,700 tons are suggested to travel to cross-country, thus increasing their resources slightly from the current fishing year. It is still emphasised that sea-inclusive assessments will be conducted on the location of line integration as a major factor in job, social, and structural operations. The analysis will lead to some conversion of line vectors to boats with bait machines without having a major negative impact on them based on the main relevance of the resource, for example, by increasing intensification. Searching will lead to setting the processing of line lines. Thus, the modern fishing process can be done without weakening the impact of the operation. The volume to line up has been shown as shown in Tables and Plans for 2015/2016 as shown in the tables of the Committee. The majority suggest that the amount of leisure fishing is increased by 100 tons from the current fishing year to 300 tons. This has been the last three fishing year for leisure fishing, as well as a plan for the next fishing year. It is suggested that the continuation of data on cod should be reduced by half of what is currently available and that the committees assume that they will subsequently collapse, i.e. ... inthenextfishyear. Normally, 500 tons of cod have been used as a means to further farm sprigs. The law of No. 85/2002 with the aim of creating an opportunity to increase the knowledge of codfish and its willingness, as long as sexual reforms were carried out, so that there could be a thirst for alfluence. It has been extended several times. Clearly, the development of fish farms does not continue to grow in cod, and sexual reforms have not become a reality for which men hoped. The final three fishing years described in this article and the fishing plan for 2015/2016 are the following years, and it becomes for the coming fishing year, according to the tables of the Committee. In turn, a greater proportion suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the adjustments made in a committee study.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u95	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's list a change in proposal for action to be agreed on the treatment plan and the provision of the resources reduced from the total resources at the same time. 5 mg. Section 8. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006, from the smaller part of the employment committees that are present, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Kristján L. Möller, who is absent. It's 5 mg. Section 8. the management process of fishing should be performed no less frequently than at three-year intervals before the Allied Council proposal for interpretation of the treatment plan and the provision of the resources to the next six years. As an assessment of the impact of the provision of the provision, these values are expected to be proposed only for the next fishing year, i.e. 2015/2016, and the more part has contributed to the change of material. Sets the smaller item for the change in order to right it up. The majority of the items have suggested a few adjustments to the proposal. These are the following: The volume of coastal fishing increase by 400 tons from the current fishing year to 2 of yours. tons will be set aside for shrimp and shelling, and will remain unchanged from the current fishing year, with a small increase in population eutrophication as in the current fishing season, the building of the Agency's market from the present level, as well as a slight increase in line integration. In addition, the more part contributes to increase the volume of leisure fishing and reduces the number of remaining materials in the cod instead of leaving them as recommended in the proposal. It has been observed that the assessment of the provision of a new source of resources, including the purpose of strengthening the settlements of the country, is being made available. The smaller portion thinks it's right to look at the assessment, but it increases the cohesive resources of the next fishing year. This increase can be suggested by taking from an overall increase prior to the next fishing year. Some rural societies have concluded, in fact, to agree with the country's small boat owners'view of the need for more coastal fishing. These rural areas are Western, Isafjörður, Mountain, and others are mentioned in this regard. The minority counts coastal fishing as a very important factor in the fishing system and points out that the committee has been challenged to increase the total number of coastal fishing. The committee was instructed that there was no need to stop fishing in area A every month, as has been the past few years. The Commission's opinion on the increase in employment and activity in coastal waters was established. It was also noted that most of the world's communities that should enjoy their presence in fishing areas, including where the pay and cost of such services arrived in the area. At that time, the Committee discussed that coastal fishing is a simple and reasonable structured operation in which smaller coastal areas were found to be close to the fishing grounds. The smaller share is critical to the assessment of the social and geographic effects of coastal fishing on the land. The smaller section suggests a change in the proposal to increase the volume of coastal fishing by 1 level. a ton of the total proportion, i.e. that the overall increase for the next fishing year will be new to coastal fishing as well as increasing the markets of the Agency. For shell and shrimping, the smaller item will emphasize the importance of setting the sunset rules for the future work, i.e. before the Minister proposes a recommendation at the General Assembly on grounds of 5 mg. Section 8. legal about the control of fishing. Some physical differences are in nature and the smaller portion is considered to be taken into account in terms of the improvements and their original purpose. It has been observed that the chances of a shell being caught again in Brefjörður and that the smaller portion should be taken into account. The minority feels that the general market will be taken care of in terms of both fishing and processing in the country and walking to where the need is most necessary. In view of my share, it will need to revise the ground order and consider, among other things, whether it is to be used only by dayboats. We, in our memory, welcome the increased market of the Agency and suggest that it be increased, as indicated by our proposals. The purpose is to assign fish farms for development in communities that have been heavily under attack, are unable to advance in other areas and are far from powerful labour markets. There is an assessment of the implementation of the Agency's workmark of Vífill's Karlsson from January 2015, which is located on the job road and innovation site. The minority points out that line integration is of great importance and is often part of the action established by the Office for an enterprise that makes a contract for its special source. The smaller section feels that the assessment of the benefit of line integration for weaker seas should be viewed as being environmental and sustainable fishing. The smaller section, however, gives the basis for a review of line integration, in view of the recent development of modern boat baiters of all sizes. The less important thing is the use of vacation fishing for tourism companies who are involved in sea fishing. The general market should not be allowed to enter the holiday pool. There have been cases in which general local eucalyptics were used in vacation fishing and are less likely to experience the dissatisfaction of the materials observed in the sailors. In the case of the continuation of cod, the smaller part feels strongly that the companies they have time to reorganize their business and the opportunity to demonstrate that it is not beyond the reach of codification. The smaller portion highlights the importance of stipulation to a certain amount of catch per set set out under regulations 5 mg. Section 8. The law to strengthen our country's settlements. Although the smaller portion may be much higher than 5.3% as it is today, it suggests that the change to work ahead of the Ministry would be considered. The minority feels that measures of this type are mainly useful to smaller and weaker seas, and they feel that markets will be laid down and that efforts to increase the stability of markets are significant and that much of the authority needs to be done, especially the market for the eutrophication of the Agency. The minority feels strongly that there will be a powerful government renter that will increase the possibility of developing a building to strengthen its domain. This proposal has been made to apply only for the next fishing year, i.e. Fishing year 2015/2016 The minority feels strongly that in the work ahead of them, it is necessary to prepare a conclusion for the next six fishing years, followed by the arrival of a smaller section of Congress or a smaller part of the government opposition. Such consultations consider the smaller items very important not only to information but also to consider suggestions that come from the smaller parts so that they can reach the most far - reaching agreement on the conclusion. The minority points out that when preparing this proposal, representatives of all members of the council were able to attend a meeting of information on the subject and feel that the less part of it has been positive. At the same time, the memory points out that a minister can decide for himself to replace a mackerel without the stocking, but now it appears that a government bill for the hunt of the North East Atlantic Ocean is not under law. The smaller section suggests a change in the conversion of the more part of the project to increase the amount to coastal fishing by 1 you. tons and others also change small numbers. At the same time, the smaller item suggests a change to allow the proposal to be valid only for the fishing year 2015/2016. The smaller section suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Instead of the words "fishing during 2015/2016/2020/2021" in the 1st verse comes: fishing year 2015/2016. 2. Instead, it is 1st,511. Seven new numbers shall come forth, saying, 1st 10 ys. tons to beach fishing. 2. Up to 1,800 tons to shrimp and clams. 3. As many as 6,928 tons to settlement. 4. Up to 5,400 tons to the building agency - a somewhat larger one, up to 2 of you. a ton. 5. 5,375 tons to line up. 6th Three hundred tons for a vacation hunt. 7. Two hundred tons to continue breeding in cod. Under this heading, write why. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Kristján L. Möller.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u96	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I just want to reiterate what has been presented in the committee opinions and sort of in both committees, in smaller and more parts. The law recommends that the Minister submit a judicial hearing every six years, but we suggest that it be reviewed in a year on the grounds that better data will be obtained then. The study Vífill Karlsson's son showed that the implementation of the Agency's stock market shows that the implementation of the market seems to provide a better trial in promoting farms than the usual eutrophication, since general eutrophication has not affected the development of intended communities. However, there is short experience in this form, so the committee considers it preferable to gain more experience in this process. Therefore, these pots are not provided with significant changes each year. However, only the focus is that the building point for the Agency is the highest, in fact, being assigned to the process of processing at the relevant sites. It will also be identified to some extent that cross-linking the boat with bait machines without having a significant negative effect on the bases of the most important option. With increased fragility in line integration, it is this way to conclude that the cross-linking will benefit better. Today it can be said that this process of cross-cutting actually issues development in smaller settlements, the communities that we should stress to strengthen, a question of whether it is of good quality. It may also be noted that, as with today's cross-linking experience, it may not be very wise to use the subwestern corner and drive the line north on Sigludur or east. Even on the southwest corner before heading north or east, there have been reports of removal of bait engines. Then the line is being run back and forth every day. In the following year, data are expected to be available for the best use of these pots, with a three - year schedule and perhaps even six - year - old. Also, I'd like to celebrate the loss of shrimping and Scaring benefits. It was a unfair way, I can totally agree with it, as shown in the reviews, where the people who had received those benefits had given the cod permission against the frightened parley they received, and then were actually moved down to zero. But I welcome it, and in reality there is relatively little disagreement on these matters on the committee. I believe that after a year the results of these fine sources will be even greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u97	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct housing benefits. In recent years, much work has been done on behalf of the Ministry of Health in cooperation with a large number of people on housing in this country, including how to balance the government's housing with different farms. Today, housing support in Iceland is provided in the form of rent payments for rent-bolus and, on the other hand, in the form of growth reforms due to property spray and livestock spray. As members of Congress are well aware, I think, a project management on the future structure of housing was assigned to shape proposals for a future housing policy. There was also a team working with her, and a report was submitted in May 2014. Among the suggestions for the project was the setting up of housing with a new government housing system where support is given by the economy rather than by the localisation. It was suggested that the proposals of a 2012 housing team and the 2014 task force be based on proposals made by the 2014 task force. These ideas were then presented as part of an interview that took place in terms of collective agreements, including this bill. The conclusion was that the government declared that this bill here would be submitted as part of our contribution to collective agreements at the spring convention and that it would be replaced by a year ago. This makes us feel that we are meeting the changed reality of Icelandic homes. We are face - to - face with the dramatic increase in rent families. We are face - to - face with the ratio of the provisional funds of the tenants has also increased substantially in recent years while the cost of living in their own homes has been reduced. Today, there are about 31,000 rent homes. By 2007, more than 15% of families lived in rented homes, but in 2013 that ratio had reached nearly 25%. What we also see in the surveys we've done is that rent - market growth has been one of the most common among young people aged 25◯34 years, among single parents, and in lower income groups. In general rent markets, the share of households with income gaps has increased as the income ladder goes down. The greatest increases have occurred in those in the lowest income range, i.e. with the minimum of 10%. Thus, in 2007, 9.5% of rent - rent homes in the lowest income range had more than tripled, or 28.9% in 2013. We see that the conditions of the tenants are hard to deal with, and here we are primarily looking at people in a public tenet, but we don't take rents, for example, the tenants of social housing. The challenge of tenants is also indicated by the fact that tenants today are more than part of an agent's client's debt. According to surveys, this group enjoys enormously burdensome housing expenses. This is what the government and the labour market put forth to correct, difficult tenants'situation, in relation to collective labour agreements. The statement I mentioned at the outset, which is a special package to the bill, shows that this will be done by adding support. We want to improve their status by improving the support of smaller families and individuals and balance the state's housing for property sprays, cabib sprays and habitats so that people have real options between different habitats. I believe I can claim that the formation of a large set of agreements to balance the government's housing with different habitats, thus ensuring a real choice for the housing market. In view of the different types of housing costs available for housing support, depending on the type of homemaking involved, it is suggested here that interest and housing be not combined on one system at this time, as suggested in the work of the groups, but on the bill, it is expected to increase housing support to the tenants and to the people we talked about, to make adjustments in both housing systems to match the different habitats. Therefore, this bill is about a new network of rent reforms. The budget is expected to be funded for the construction of the facilities under the bill. This is in harmony with the proposal of the committee. The urban population has so far taken care of rent payments, but government funds have financed more than 60% of the cost of rents and rurals by 40%. Companies in rural income are expected to be revised in these changes so that rural communities will be equal after the change. The bill also expects the government's National Insurance Agency to be committed to the implementation of housing benefits and that her decisions will be charged with the decision-making committee of welfare, which is being committed at this council. This is the long experience that the Agency has with the implementation of various laws measuring the right of individuals to pay from the public. The great knowledge and experience in my opinion will be useful in the construction of the building system and particularly the experience the Agency has in building ongoing time-consuming on a future income plan. However, similar to today's specific housing reforms, rural communities are expected to continue to care for special housing services and are therefore appointed to legalize its authority in the local community service laws, which are now contained in the laws on housing. Thus, special housing support, or special housing improvements, will be most clear as part of the social assistance done by rural society. The bill suggests that basic housing benefits take into account a large number of members of the household rather than the family or the number of children taking into account the income and property of the household at 18 years of age and older and the cost of housing. It is estimated that the basic housing height for an apartment building where one household has a value of 31,000 will be one. a month or 372,000K. each year for decrease due to income, possessions, and housing costs. This is a significant increase in housing support for tenants, but the basic financial value of an individual or of a family without children in the current tenet - rent system may be $22,000. a month or 264,000 years. every year. Depending on certain factors, the base height is expected to take into account the number of members of the household, regardless of age, and so it is suggested that the base value of housing may be up to 54,250k. when there are five or more members of the household. However, like existing housing systems, this is expected to affect home income and property rights for housing improvements. However, children's income and possessions are not expected to affect the financial benefits of housing. The reason is that children, according to law, are viewed as being passed on to their parents until they are 18 years old, so it is not reasonable for their income and possessions to limit their household's housing benefits. The bill expects that basic housing benefits be reduced monthly by a monthly budget of 0.67% of the combined annual income of citizens of 18 years of age and older over over certain markets and that the range of holidays, regardless of age, will take into account the number of households, according to the same factors that are suggested for the quality of the housing. It is new to say that in the current tenure - rent system, there are always the same limits, regardless of the number of members of the household, leading to more than one income in the home, rent rents are cut very quickly into the system or may fall to the full. In this way, rent payments in the current system begin to reduce the income of the home to more than 2,550,000 dollars. Each year, equivalent to over 212,000 k. per month. This is an effort to meet the relatively higher cost of household living when more people live together by means of a number of homes, since I think that everyone should be aware that a higher income is needed to cover household expenses, including housing costs, as many are more household members. If this bill becomes a law, there is a great improvement in the number of homes. It can also be said that a single parent with one child can have more income than in the rent - repair system before it is reduced, since a parent's leisure limit is expected to take into account the number of members of the household, so remember this in this case with two members of the household. According to the bill, a parent may have 3,240,000 bucks. in a year before there was a decline, compared to the present system where the income of the same parent is greater than 2,550,000, as mentioned earlier, would cut rents. A family of five will be 4,725,000. every year instead of 2,550,000 dollars. in the local rent system. However, it is assumed here, and I suppose that it will be one of the best health committees and clients that the bill will be implemented in two stages, so that the first year after the arrest of the law values will be the same reserve for all who apply for housing, or 2.7 million, compared to the annual wages of all 18 - year - olds and older people, but the law will then provide a different budget for projects a year later. The bill then covers the definition of income. The same definition of revenues used in connection with growth improvements is to increase the correlation between the two revenues. Thus it is assumed that the payment of social security will be paid in the sense of the bill, although it was not considered to be a income in the sense of a law on rent payment, yet there are other public services that are intended to be regarded as remuneration, such as unemployment and financial support for the community services. There are also specific limits of property, as mentioned, so it is estimated that once a year's basic housing improvements are reduced proportionately from property to 6.5 million until they drop to 60% or 10.4 million. K. It is the same arrangement as property boundaries and values for the loss of interest on the property of married couples and partners, but it was decided to list the limits of property rather than those that apply to single and single parents in the growth reform system. I expected it to be one of the things covered by a welfare committee. In contrast, as single - parent contributions for single - parent families begin to reduce their holdings to more than 4 million and to fall fully into interest at 6.4 million. K. It is also expected of the same definition of property as expected in the growth reform system, and it is then covered here on the mortgage so that they will never be able to study more money than 75% of the cost of housing due to the appropriate housing. This is an increase from a local rent - rent system, where rent payments can never buy more than 50 percent of the cost of housing. One person who lives in the home is expected to apply for housing and is required to do so. Of course, in the sense of the bill, the applicant, and other members of the household, need to live in the appropriate apartment building, he must truly live in the rented home and there have a registered legal home. However, there is an exception, i.e. You can be counted as a home but can be elsewhere. Children, as I mentioned earlier, are not expected to have their own right to housing, nor is a child available to their parents or guardians until 18 years of age. Thus, in view of parental contributions and guardians with their children until 18 years of age, it is reasonable that housing for children should be provided for those who make them available. There are laws on children who temporarily reside in dormitories or parks so that while the principle of the bill is that only the members of the home are considered to be those living in that home, a child less than 18 years of age who has temporary dwellings in dormitories or parks may be considered to be members of a household in his parents'home or guardian's home, for the child is not registered in a legal home. It is a law regarding the definition of an apartment building; the need for a duly appointed contract for an apartment building to at least Three months and the approval of all members of the household that the government's insurance agency can provide the information necessary to handle the applications. Of course, the right to improve housing cannot be readily available if a member of the household is entitled to produce interest. It is suggested by several waives from the conditions I have gone through as to living quarters and contract contracts. It is suggested that, despite the conditions of the home bill, a person can be counted to members of his household in the rented home, although he has a home somewhere else, for a temporary residence because of his studies, health problems, or the rehabilitation of a permanent home. It is also in the laws on rent care, but it is being suggested that the release also applies to those living in separate homes, in view that under law on law, there is no possibility of having a legal home in other countries. I am so happy that in the bill that when parents or guardians of children do not live together, their children can be counted among the members of their two homes, the child stays at least 30 days a year in the home. This is an important exception from the principle that a person can be counted only in a single apartment home at any given time. Parents and guardians who do not live together should thus be able to have increased housing support for children who live at home with both parents or guardians at the same time. There I feel that there is a very serious legal improvement, since in the current tenet - rent system, a parent as a child in a lawhouse can only be expected to have the right to provide additional support for the child. The reason why I, and the committees who carried the proposals and that the preparation of this bill, felt very important that this was in here is that people are getting a divorce, a common custody is becoming more common, and the communication of children with both parents is something we can see that people put far more emphasis on than they may have had in the past. It also means that both parents or guardians will become and will want to have the opportunity to have a good home for their children, even if they do not live together, which means that they need to have a larger home. I'd like to point out, and that's one of the things a welfare committee will need to take a stand and take a close look at, that a team of housing improvements since 2012 and a project on the future housing arrangements suggested that parents have to have a common presupervision so that the rule applies. However, here it is being suggested that it is normal to see the parent and the child's associations rather than to see if they are subject to them. There is a need for confirmation that a child will stay in a parent's home for which he does not have a legal home and is expected to confirm the need to be agreed on by a society confirmed by a businessman's law of child law or by a businessman's decision on sexual relations under the same law. Then the child can be counted to a man in the home of two parents or to a guardian. This rule may also apply to the right of parents or guardians for housing because of a child who is temporarily living in a dormitory or in a park, so that the child is considered to be his household. Then, too, it is assumed that the right to improve housing can be carried out despite the conditions of the bill on residence housing in the presence of members of the community because of social conditions and the partnerships of disabled persons in housing procedures as per law on disabled persons, as well as the partnerships of students in residences or learning areas that relate to established educational institutions. It will be thus permitted to provide housing payments for the cost of housing in such cases as renting a single room with a share of the space being a common home, e.g. when sharing a kitchen or cooking position. This is the same kind of exception that has been present in the housing system since 2001, since it has been assumed that people living together in separate homes and homes, although it is common to be rented in individual rooms. It is also assumed that there may be a right to improve housing, although there is no plagiarized contract for renting houses owned by a state, rural society, or a community entirely owned by a state or community, but a comparable rent - rent system has been in 1997. It is suggested in the bill that this exception will also be made available to students in a room or in an apartment in a dormitory or in a park, where a simple reimbursement of contracts may be made to students in dormitories and parks. As an example, I think about 1,100 contracts per year at the student Social Services, which have adopted a new and more efficient system where rent contracts are reimbursed electronically. Thus, students living in a dormitory or a park will not need to announce a new contract every time the contract is renewed, as is generally done during each year of study in order to have the right to improve housing. There is another particular point I would especially like to state that the exception of the Senate hearing will be extended to those who are entitled to maintain the use of apartment property that they have missed at the forced sale for up to 12 months at the discretion of a businessman's decision on the basis of a special authority in the law on forced sale. It has not been customary to negotiate rent contracts on such provisions and has therefore not been entitled to rent compensation, since one of the conditions of rent payment is to have a church contract. This release can be met with those who pay for the use of the house they have lost in an forced sale, for in fact the value of rent payment is worth it. Then there are those who live in separate homes. This is a series of changes in government housing support to tenants, which I believe very important to provide additional support for the consumers in view of their difficult housing situation and to ensure that the tenants have the right to the same public housing support as those living in their own homes or camps, so that the people of the country have a real choice of farm shapes and provide security for housing in accordance with their needs. I think this bill, which is available to repair housing, is a very important help in making that happen. There is one point, however, that isn't in the bill that I would like to remember very much, because there is here at least one member of the welfare committee that would be considered specifically. It is not normal for housing workers in housing communities to depend on future housing reforms rather than on the growth system. It is important that housing partnerships, on the basis of their total financial expenses for the agricultural services of the society rather than on the financial expenses of their private apartment, are added to a bill that has been treated by the welfare committee to change the law on housing partnerships where it is assumed that the budget could provide a way of managing its business. If that change were made on the law of housing partners, and I expect to reimburse that bill again in the fall, as soon as possible, as there is no room for next payment at this council, it may be expected to reimburse it, and after an incident with farm-crowding loans he has taken to buy on farm rights, to reflect the individual's mortgages expenses rather than the interest of the housing company itself due to the commitment of the society. This is one of the things I would like to direct to the welfare committee to make special observations and even accept a home haven where they would feel that supporting them would be the best place for them. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee for reviews and continued work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u98	A respectable president. This case went to a great roulette in the conference hall of happy memories on the spring day, where the discussion was in my opinion indiscriminately and in some of the lowest plans you've seen in a discussion of matters at the council, at any rate since I came in here eight years ago. An adjustment in a greater part of the employment committee was that five priming options would be added to a novelty party. You might say, as I came into my speech then, that three of them should be completely unconcerned, two controversial, and then especially creative at Hague Lake. This was especially true, although the more objective reasons were presented, why the greater part chose to accept rich opinions and the local interest in improving its living conditions with that priming option. The committee was contacted by an enormous number of visitors. One of the best experts in this area was the fact that this was one of the most practical initiatives in the world. It's not my word, it's the word we've chosen as our best experts in this field. This is in both economic and environmental terms. Hag was controversial, especially because it had never been a colony of innovations. On the other hand, the mob was much less controversial. This is an activation option, which is certainly in the edge of the highlands, but it has virtually no environmental impact. It is being used when the men make a lagoon and the station itself will be inside a mountain, inside a tunnel, so that nothing can be seen but a small stimulus at one of the floors. The information presented in the project management of this case was incorrect when the linework was not studied because the data were available to set the line from this activation into the ground. During the last term, the committee's work was made clear about the lack of logic of the local minister's power when she made a decision to bring six primings from a waiting party. Of course, the best - known salmon practices that have been referred to in connection with activation in the lower part of Þrjörður are unconvinced. There are all experts who have agreed on this, and there have been heard from the experts we have here at the council, except that very many who came to shape a work on a frame plan, and the ideologies believe that an opinion of these factors is not at all appropriate in the frame plan because if we are going to apply these procedures according to a frame plan, we will be very late to go to the detailed work that it would require with all the initiatives in the country. This applies, for example, to what has been mentioned during the discussion when it is said that there will be a social impact. I quote the words of Svanfred Jónasdóttir's daughter, who was chairman of a project manager who worked at the longest and did a very good job, when she said that it should only be viewed in the frame of mind if the social effects were large or small but not to be done further, that would be work at later levels. As a compromise in this case, the majority decided to withdraw their proposal on Hag Sea and Rock, and the rest of it had three benefits in lower part of Turbulence with arguments that do not hold any opinions, i.e. The evidence about the salmon. It had no effect, it was not discussed in my part of the council to negotiate the matter, to discuss it rather, and to argue that there was no arguments. It continued to talk about legal reasoning, that there was a compromise with the law on the frame plan. To discuss these issues, a trade - trade committee has often called in. There have been studies on the lower part of Tubes since 2001, 27 reports have been reported, a total of some 1,100 pages. For one thing, it shows that peering is not a natural force of water. First, the river was activated in 1961, and its consequences were smoother flow, life began to increase in the river, and the salmon population began to grow. The word has doubled in salmon habitat. The counter-requisite measures employed by the Institute of Fishing and other sources regarding the sub-operative activations of the lower part of Þrjörður are primarily involved in debridement. As it turned out, the experience of these shambles is very good, and they witnessed specifically to the Columbia River in the United States and, in fact, beyond. It involves individuals with knowledge of a global scale in these areas. A model model of our most skilled specialists, such as for Uryrofos, believed to be very similar in this respect to Hlamming, and they have come out very well. International chroniclers have given proof of health proof of the work of the OC in these products. These experts called it a administrative accident to place these activates at a starting point and have never seen data to support putting these activation options into a waiting group. That's what we've been dealing with at the General Assembly during one of the most difficult discussions I've seen. The review of the Environment Ministry is the only legal opinion that has been proposed, and the smaller part used it extensively in its language and even still uses, which says that no comment is made by the Council, although it presents an amendment of the lower part of the Red Sea. Of course, they make comments at the Cradle and Hagah Lake. The same was true of the head of the project, he made no comments, and he felt that it was a natural trial. He also agreed at a meeting of the Committee that data collection had exceeded the normal limit for the lower part of During the Year, i.e. to what is discussed in the frame plan. Land activation provided the current project management with very special data on salmon fish in Þjódra. The task management did not call land induction to review these data before it reached its conclusion. She made her decision without even reviewing the evidence, and the detailed report before she came back, was just making her own decision, no matter what the situation may be. It is, in fact, a great responsibility for the council to attend a discussion in the manner that has been made in this case in which appropriate policy issues and false claims are kept under way. Willing? Indeed, because there is more to this knowledge and awareness of the subject. Congress officials have expressed themselves on this matter of great heat, including members of Congress who did not take part in a discussion on the subject of 70 visitors. For example, the members of Pirata have been very active during a discussion at the council, but their representative did not attend one meeting at the Committee to discuss this matter. They did not listen to viewpoints, but they judged others. I have also heard the viewpoint of members of the council who have said to me: " I'm not against activation. But in the interest of an imaginary solidarity, which was so important to these groups in this matter, some have had my opinion drawn to fumafen, far from their convictions. Of course, there are generals who believe that the country has been overactivated. It's a view of itself, and I respect the fact that humans can have different opinions on that subject, but I also claim that there's a lot less here at the council. However, their viewpoints have been in charge of this discussion. Everything has been in control of the bisexual way. Then all we need to do is look at other matters that we are doing here in a similar way that is similar to those of the same hurt, we can say. Let us compare the discussion on Backka with the discussion of increasing electricity production in the country. These same people who have been completely opposed to the fact that these issues are going into action and have their way, providing green light for the building of a major industry at Bakka. There is no criticism, but the large or energy - efficient industry, of course, is based on electricity production. These same people often claim in this discussion that we are supplying our electricity, that we will have nothing to do with this. I know the reason we sell our energy way too cheap. Well, I hope that doesn't mean Backfowl, but I think we're going to get a pretty decent electrical price. But what is the difference between giving land or supporting so much in the implementation of industrial energy that it may not bring back the profits we've lost? But it's all right with these people, there's no distinction. The budget, open industrial treasure as we've called it, goes through here to over 1,400 million. K. What, then, will happen to the discussion of setting this up in a national law? Why don't we have a vote on this? Pirata's senators told me that during the macrollar discussion, it would not work out that mackerel bill in such a short time, it would be impossible, it would be an opportunity for the nation to arrive at national pay, to come to a poll where they could make their point of view. What, though, about the Backcoat that is taken up so quickly without any discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u99	Are you against Back?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u100	Should we let the people vote for that? Then here, the vice president of the United States calls up a question about whether I'm against back-up. She knows better. I've been supporting back back, but I'm just talking about double-knuckles at night. þm. Katrín Juliusdóttir and others when I tell them how to approach these matters. [[Up front.]] That's what's scary. You need a prince's finger in politics. [[Up front.]] As a result of the last government's actions, we are faced with the conclusion that in the decision-to-be on frame 2 programme, the activation of the lower part of Þrjörg was expected to be started in 2015◯ 2017. How much does it cost the community that these activations of the lower part of Tubes have not been started this year and in the next two years? How much does it cost the community? Any structure that would have been followed would have been initiated at a time where injection was really needed, especially in this field, in an Icelandic community. You can calculate how many billions of losses it is to have thrown out these advantages without reasonable support. Now we're repeating the game in the invitation of these same categories, we're repeating the game to further delay possible projects around these projects. Iceland's opportunities are great at this point. For example, it is enough to quote President Ólafur Grímsson's speech at a meeting of the annual meeting of Conspiracy, where he reviewed his international experience on Iceland's opportunities for renewable energy, or Persson Person, which was here at the annual meeting of the Association for Employment and discussed the same matter. The same former British Energy Minister who was here at an open meeting the other day, telling us the same thing as Persson Göran, that there was no country in the world that had as many opportunities as Iceland to promote real production based on renewable energy sources. We all know the discussion about how to give the energy to land, that there is no profit. This is all done to deceive the public in the face of the fact that these projects are full of shit, not just for the electricity production and the other enterprises in which it stands, but for the whole community. This is probably the largest opportunity in the country and of us who want to make a real effort to further the settlement, the scattered settlements. There is no tool as obvious as creating a variety of industry throughout the scattered areas. Your responsibility in this case is the one that is working to delay the progress of such important matters. We're not going to give up in the boat, the second half is starting, and I'm expecting him to do it in style, but then I hope we can have a perplexity talk about these things where extremeism cannot be controlled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u101	A respectable president. When I listened to a talk, I gave it to him. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son in these matters pretended to be familiar with an ad from Agli Belli, the son ofegrim, shown at this time and the commercial soda Grape, which will be a natural bitterness. A greater proportion of the employment providers have agreed to withdraw much of the changes they made in the discussion that, in fact, were not changing proposals but additional proposals for the agreed case. I like it. So a senator makes the shoes in his language that it is somehow a default view and for granted, and more natural to be the activation point when one sees the landscape rather than to be the protective side, as if it were just some physical law that humans should be activated when it is possible to do so rather than make use of it. I'd like to ask you why. A senator on matters of great importance, and I view it as a perfunctory discussion: Is there a sneering landscape in mind? A senator worth nothing? Or was it not that last year's income was created here at 302 billion from foreign tourists, and 80% of these foreign tourists came to Iceland to experience unscrupulous nature?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u102	A respectable president. Yes, I can certainly tell the bitter nature of my language. I am a bit of a bite on how these cases have been handled. Is it some nature of nature to be the activation factor when you stand and look at Icelandic nature and think it all the way from that? I won't. However, it is typical of the discussion to try to interpret it in this way. That's true, a lot of tourists come to the country to see unscrupulous nature, about 80%, but probably about 30% of tourists came to examine our activations with renewable activation initiatives last year, 30%, and there's nothing specifically done on it. They go there themselves. Of these, about a hundred thousand came to view Hellishe activation; 60 thousand were examined by forces. You see, this calls for attention. I think it can be very good to do this in particular, because it's interesting, and I'll quote back to the President's words at the meeting I mentioned earlier. Energizes in the lower part of Turbulence are not in unquenchable landscapes. They don't have nothing to do with it, they don't have nothing to do with it. It's got nothing to do with daisies, either, just nothing. I'm getting close from that point of view. It can be said of Hague Lake, but, of course, a great improvement in landscapes will occur if Hague Lake is activated, even though it is controversial and must be examined especially if there is a swing in the lagoon that some would like to claim to be effective. Then there may be little point to making that journey, but that is just what needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u103	A respectable president. At the beginning of my second answer, I'd like to ask why. A senator pointed out whether he has formally retracted his proposals and the majority of the employment committees. If so, I would also like to argue that it is inconceivable to accept the transfer of Aggressive Aggressive Implementation in a frame plan. I do so on the basis of the fact that the Framework Act expected men to classify a number of activation options in a row but not to take special activation ideas out of parentheses and examine them specifically, as has been done here. At the same time, I feel that it is completely unclear and cannot predict how the activation will affect salmon population. Of course, it's just a matter of time before. A senator who has been activated quite often, and her lead story, her ideas, her discussion, and plans for the activation of Þjórðar, and the calculation of the water supply there spans over 100 years. However, it is not true that the entire area is uninhabited when it comes to the lower part of The Year and the priming ideas involved. That area is certainly built, hu. Senator, the river is very natural. The weight of the country in question is precious, and it is not necessarily transformed into a medium-sized pole. In that sense, I feel that the available information is not sufficient. I'd like to ask who, too. A member of Parliament: What evidence is there that a project management will order all the initiatives and activation ideas available on the next round that will end in the fall and that the next loss may lie before the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u104	A respectable president. The Parliament will not discuss the results of the current project management until 12◯16 months. 12◯16 months, 16◯18 months. Of course, there are very strong reasons for those who want to continue in this field, as it is, that our energy companies cannot respond to the call of the companies who want to invest here, whether it is for the enlargement of data plants, new sources of data, or for the factories for which they are expected to build on the suspects and in Hades. Of course, that's what it's all about. I respect the point of the question. A senator who doesn't want to activate more, but I'm asking him to respect my point of view of going further on and on. to take this activation option in the lower part of the Tubular ulcer. I challenge it. A senator says that in the council's decision, we make it democratic whether these benefits have been adequately valued. In case of a moment. A senator believes that it is not finished when he disagrees with all the experts I've heard, or most of us can say, that the effect on the salmon population is very vague. It's just a completely different kind of thing to be claimed by our best specialists in this field, i.e. that's a lot of environmental impact. These are the activation tools that limited the lowest environmental impact in the work of project management on frame 2. They were taken to the extent to which they were practical in an environmental way. If they fail to meet that rating, we will probably not activate hydropower anywhere else in the country, at least not with less environmental impact. [[Up front.]] We've got 12 seconds left. Senator. So I believe that these are the reasons men have to go over, and they can have different opinions, but it is natural that democratic more things should be controlled the way they go. We will withdraw our proposal, as has been agreed at this end of the council. [[The president calls.]] I think that's pretty bitter. In case of a moment. A senator wants to like it to some kind of bait drink, let him do it because of me. [[The president calls.]] He sees the Colombian side of many matters, but to me it's a very serious matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u105	A respectable president. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator said that the piranha had not attended a single meeting on this matter. I'd like to mention some numbers in that relationship and ask why. Senator two questions. First, I'd like to point out that according to a meeting at the General Assembly, there were nine of the 23 panels in this case if the employment committee and the transport committee are assembled. The figure is 39.13% for the case itself, eight regular committees and three pizzas at work each time, which means we're 37.5% designer. It may be that the percentages for when we've been at a meeting on this subject are over the percentage. First of all, I'd like to ask who. A senator would consider that to be an excellent thing to do, considering the number of people doing things. Second, I would like to ask, " Is it true that at least six of the job conventions are wrong when it comes to having a pizza? ' paritaprevir John Þór, son of Ólafsson, or other representatives, such as mine or the deputy boy. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson. That's what I'm talking about. A senator who is prepared to withdraw or explain his comments more about the fact that the piraans did not attend a single meeting in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u106	A respectable president. For a meeting for what? They've been accepted and checked, and I don't make any comments, and I don't know that any comments were made that were incorrectly recorded. I may have missed it, and I apologized for being met by a senator or a member of Porita, an officer of the police department, who were numerous. Of course, it is quite misleading when we review that 37.5% is a figure for the consideration of three members of the committee. It is a well - known rule at the council that members of the council sit on two committees and treat them well. At that time, the same number is 75% for every Pirata senator. When men arrange for committees to meet on the same day, on one of the regular committees and on the other, as an agent of the hearing, humans cannot attend both meetings. Thus, members of Parliament generally do not settle down in committees. When choosing a committee as a meeting on Mondays and Wednesdays, they choose a committee that works on Tuesdays and Thursdays at a convention. Thus, members of Parliament generally operate on two committees and give it back. It's been customary in the Generals. The exception is if they perform some more responsible roles that take a lot of time, they just sit on one committee or even on no committee if so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u107	A respectable president. Working hard on two committees at a time is not customary among members of the government. Being an audience every other day is what makes it possible for us to have access to these committees over our heads, that should be the case. Senator to know. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has three committees, including one of whom is the head of the network, an environmental and transport committee. 39.13% attendance is what I'm pointing out here, especially in the context of the problem. A senator mentioned that the piranha had opinions on the case, but he did not attend a meeting. This is a wording that fits. A senator wants to be respected. Likewise is the word "wow." A senator now in answer to this question said that the piranha had met some meeting. First there were no meetings, now there is one meeting. There were six of the 17 employment committees found this case at a time. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson or another Pirata representative came along. That's 35.3%. We have 37.5% of the staff mentioned because we have three members of Congress and eight regular committees. It claims itself, a respectable president, that if the members of Pirata are to be at committees four of five days in which they have the usual schedule, they would have no other choice but to consider the matter of the Parliament. All right. Forget it. I'm sorry. In view of the fact that piranha was not present at a meeting over her head, a senator would suggest that they met at one meeting when the trial was that they attended 39.13% of meetings that covered this case, whether on a professional committee or another committee? Counts 'em out. A senator does not think that Porta's members are perfectly qualified to have loud opinions, as do other members of Parliament on this matter in view of their efforts?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u108	A respectable president. Something like this has touched a sensitive cord. I said it earlier, and I apologized that if it were the situation that Porita's members had attended some meeting at a professional committee, I don't remember, but I might have. I'm not dealing with an Environment and Transport Committee, it was a very different subject than a professional committee that took a much more thorough and critical discussion about what everyone who wanted it and was requested to attend the committee. As I told you earlier, over 70 visitors attended the committee meeting and were very carefully discussed. What happened on the environment and transport committee is not comparable. I'm not leaving it, a respectable president, and, of course, you can look it up, that it's very common for members of Congress to sit on two committees and work on two committees. I've done it myself. I don't do it now, as the head of a professional committee, I'm only on one committee, but I've been doing it all the other years I've spent at the council. For six years, I was on two committees. Then they arrange for committees to meet on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Tuesdays, and Thursdays. I believe most members of the council here are in their two committees. No one is too busy to do that. I think piranha can do much better than they've done. They just have to recognize them as critical. They want everything on board and open. This criticism has been observed. Therefore, I felt that it was appropriate to mention this because I believe that considering the way the tradition has been and what heavy opinions people have had in this matter, it is very important that representatives of the classes have had the opportunity to examine different viewpoints that appear on committee meetings, otherwise they cannot participate in the discussion with so much urgency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u109	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for a synonym to change the synopsis of a national protection and energy prevention programme, no. 13/141, 2 smaller parts of the job board. A smaller section believes that it was a mistake on the part of a minister to assign a project administration to discuss so few initiatives that are actually the result. Such an arrangement is not compatible with the methodology of a structure, as the head of a project manager has noted. This arrangement led to the development of a third- fiscal task management in the third phase of a frame plan solely to suggest that one priority of activation would be replaced by a waiting factor, i.e. Impulse reactivation. 2. smaller sections believe that there would have been a lot more options to make the price of order methodology significant and comparable. The book of one representative of the Project Management Board, Þóra Ellen Þórhallsdóttir, reports that she cannot accept the proposal to organize activation options that were supplied by project management. It was observed to refer to the list of necessary factors to take a position on Holtization, which would have been defined as the additional research to be done in the feed areas of salmon fish in the Thaw. If it indicated that, according to the proposal of a project management, only the need for additional studies would be defined, but their results would not be necessary. Therefore, she did not consider the effect of implementation to be the basis for ordering, and would be it in her view that it was a fundamental deviation from practices in the previous two stages of a frame plan. Then she pointed out that this was an example for further treatment and likened the arrangement to an unfilled but signed check, where a project administration had signed the consequences of an attack, but their most important impact on life still remains unknown. Another lower point points out that in the reviews of the Committee it is the development of Aggressive Implementation in the Idolatry category of Idolatry Participation, in effect, an experimental project for counter-improvement because of the salmon population in Þirð. Another lower part is glad that the more part draws the change to increase the cost of activation classes, although it was clear that it does not conform to the professional framework activities and the protection and energy efficiency laws, No. 48/2011. A smaller section perks what was mentioned in his Committee on Parliamentary Report 1248 which suggested that the case be referred to an Environment and Resource Minister, who is subject to project management on the advantages of the proposal, i.e. Impulse reactivation. That's what's going on here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. We've talked a lot about this case here at the council, and not as a result of unsatisfying, of course, that when more than a part of the employment committee made the decision to make a change in the proposal made for the council here by the Minister, allowing all of this to the air and completely go past the professional procedures of the Management Board's Programme. I am not going to give a materialistic talk in this regard. When I gave his talk earlier, he worked hard to justify the decision that the greater part took at his time, and I felt that it was like a cause to lie by a professional health committee in these matters. We are going to apply the professional procedure in this case, i.e. that there is a step 3 task management which will go through this category of delays, use or protection options, and we must respect that process. Everything else is wrong with the laws we've all agreed on here. I'm just hoping we'll continue the professional process that was here at the outset.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u110	A respectable president. The first thing I want to do is celebrate the conclusion that they have decided to retract the changes made by a professional committee submitted to the situation in the past winter and have had the least reported in question, not just here at the General but in the general community. Listening to a talk was a big deal to me. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, since he spoke as if the only objective member of this matter and in the discussions here at the council was he himself, of course not. It's just been so I've been standing there alone in this room because I think other members of the government have been aware of the shame in this case. It was, of course, that the instrument we have created in an effort to create or at least establish an agreement about the methodology in making decisions about where to activate and where to not, should be clearly developed by means of these changes in attempting to destroy that tool. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson also spoke earlier in his speech in that way, as if the framework tool were of no importance to him, there would be nothing to say when he and his associates were here in the greater part, but it all matter that they could make decisions on their own terms where to activate or where not to apply. That's what they used to talk about here in talks. It confirmed everything we've been talking about in the winter, that people don't care about professional decision making. That's just the facts. That's why we've been protesting here for the winter. Then, a respectable president, that if we just look back at the activation story of our Icelanders -- I'm not a Chachorian against setting in, like the spelt president of a professional committee was trying to argue that we all must be like him, because either we must be like him, always in all or against everything, and no gray areas in life. Of course, life is full of gray areas. Life is a bit complex, and over the years, we've done a lot of work here in the country. Some salmon years of activation were under attack. There have been more and less successes in reducing the number of activation options so far. The tool Framework Programme is designed to at least agree that the decision has been made as professional as possible. Then it may not be that everyone is content with the final outcome of the process, but at least it is not doubtful that our best professionals have come to the decision - making process and are involved. That's extremely important. Also, looking back has not been good for the energy sector to see that this is the case over and over because energy output needs a long - term view. He needs to be able to make plans ahead of time. We do not do so by means of the arrangement of constantly being in the pits, and no one knows what will happen to the corner, just like the methodology. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son announces, unpredictable, and quarreling. A respectable president. It will also be that when we come along and start looking overall at the picture, as we are doing here, big areas are going to be protected. It is normal, and it is good for us to be proud of beautiful nature, so be careful that our pearls are guaranteed and cared for. This is where tourists come to watch them, and we must protect individual nature. We have an obligation to do so, not only for the future inhabitants of this country but also for nature's sake. We have a responsibility toward her. Therefore, we have to have some kind of system of decision-making in order not to become some political or individual flirtation, which has been the case over the years. A respectable president. It is true that the head of the professional trade committee is able to attract us, and we can be proud of the things that have been done in those areas, and we are aware that we must activate in order to have electricity and to live the life that we have become accustomed to. We're making a lot of demands, Icelandic society. But that does not mean that humans can do this just somehow and anywhere and whatever they want. We here at the Council are responsible for the success of the decision-making process and for the best possible outcome. This does not happen by getting a professional professional committee into position and evaluating where and where it is not best to do this. A respectable president. I must also say that I'm glad that this place has been established, and the original proposal from the mission board has come here for a vote. There are many things to say that I can say in a number of ways. paritaprevir Within the last term, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir may not have been the right decision for us to send a specific activation option to the project management with requests for quick treatment, since she was considering certain factors that were the salmon factor on the lower part of Þjóröi. That may be so. In fact, I've been convinced in this discussion that it may have been rather complicated because the tool frame is based on the fact that men have a complete picture. But we can learn from this. We learn from the fact that we were doing this for the first time during the last terms set under the 2011 Law. There is much to learn from this. I guess I wouldn't do it that way again if I had something to say about it. But that's just the way it is. Now I want to pray to the U.S. Congress that we can stand together to let this tool stand and respect it. It's not that we've been at the end of the winter, but we were defending a professionalised decision-making decision-making or advice that came out of that which I think we've got in more ways of trying to make use of ourselves. In addition, members of Congress are accepting their decision, and they can see it in a variety of ways. At the same time, however, there is no doubt that there is any basis for us to make a decision based on it, so to speak. But I do believe that if we are really going to create some agreement on the tools of a frame plan, then, of course, there must be a balance between all these categories and people not only emphasis on the Neo class, men must also provide funding to begin a peace-telling process on what has been brought to the reservation as it has been pointed out here. If we're really going to make peace with this, that's gotta happen. How disappointing it is for this government to do just that! But that is also because the environment has been convened by the government in a drawer of another government until the last few years. I hope that a new minister, who has been here for years, does some of this and puts up with the budgets in autumn to start working on peace descriptions in the areas of protection. This reconciliation is not created in a different way. Finally, I want to say this: Let's give this tool a chance, stop looking at the past, and figure out how we started this expedition. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure there was some mistake. [[The president calls.]] Let's look ahead. Let us follow the law and try to be complete in making peace. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u111	Mr. President. I understand that it has been confirmed here that more part of the employment committee has now been proposed to add to the original proposal of activation and is well recommended. In fact, there is a tremendous victory in the environmental struggle, and this may seem to be something more important and interesting to winter than it is to be realized. This battle has actually lasted since the introduction of the case, which was surprising and unexpectedly referred to a professional committee rather than to an environmental committee. It is a victory for the environmental struggle, for professional employment, for careful administration, for the law and for the respect of the Generals for themselves and for their work that this project of more part of the employment committee under the top of the board. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son was broken backwards. I hope the whole treatment will be a lesson to us. Hopefully, from now on or at least for the time being, a structured program will be allowed to be in peace, and at least at the moment, a project management will now be able to do a good job and then return the rest of the time as well as a new proposal to organize activations into a reservation, a colony, and after the events of a continued waiting party. I've been windowting for a review of the book Dreamland and discovered that it was quite nice to keep it on the table and look at it from time to time, even. as we discussed these matters. We need a review. If it teaches us something, or if we want some lessons to be learned from what this brilliant book reveals, it is the need for humans to stop at times and ask questions and not to continue blindly on the basis of some old and even completely illogical ide that something is specified by default, such as always applying more and paying attention to all the interests of those who want the energy for so many reasons. Our country deserves our strength when it comes to it. We need to be on guard against other pursuits that may now be far different from those that may have taken place decades ago. No matter what we do, we have rich responsibilities in these matters. Iceland and I are neither so miserable nor poor that for some time anything can justify our oversee the natural quality of our country. That's exactly what we need to review, because it brings up, among other things, one very pleasant analogy to the inducers and industry of the decades, i.e. The illustration of the U.S.A.'s request to borrow most of the land under military base. Then Iceland was not particularly rich, although we had a small collection of postwar currency, but the standard of living was different and the country was as developed as it is today. In fact, they went into the hands of many decades. Nevertheless, they stated no to the United States' wishes to have a land under a powerful military base until 99 years, such as Ólafur Thors, then prime minister, described the request that appeared in 1945 and prime minister informed about a year later and discussed it in their public assembly that year. A direct quote says, with president's permission: Last year, the U.S.A. asked us for Halfland, Cutthroat and Keflavík. They were asked for long rents, perhaps 100 years, because they wanted to spend a lot of money. There was to be powerful military bases. In other words, they waved in front of Iceland's yellow root that there would be a huge number of jobs and currency and activities that could have significant significance for economic development in the country, but they still said no because at the time, the Republic's objective that Iceland should be an eternal neutral country and have no resources, from the time it was declared in the Treaty. I'm on standby for the proposal then left out for payment, to bring the whale reactivation into the Neon Party, the same way as stated in the leading list of 2nd smaller objects. I'm opposed to deciding the final classification of Enzyme and, in addition to the reasoning that there is, I personally feel that I can't bear the idea of putting that activation into practice. I don't think any of the activations in the lower part of the Red Sea should be attacked, enough, and that the environment there and nature and the environment should enjoy the doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u112	President. We have reached the end of a very long discussion that has been going on for a very long time. I figure this is really a case that was discussed on 10 or 11 different days of last year. The Parliament's smell. These days, mostly in discussions about the proposal and the conversation about the President's conference board. Why was that, Mr. Honorable President? This was because the government side would like to direct the president that the matter was not relevant at the General Assembly, i.e. that the case with the adjustment of the majority of the employment committee should not be discussed in the discussion. That led to the conclusion. That is the conclusion that already lies. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, a member of the II Parliament's symposium, reduced the production of more than one part of the workaholics. This is the response of the General Assembly, which is the reaction of the administrative sector to the integrated comments of the minority of the Council on the President's Conference Board, with objective logic, both indicating the importance of the matter here, as well as a doubt on the legal and judicial situation of that proposal. In this discussion, it is reasonable to offer thanks for the reason. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and a majority of the trade committees because during the winter discussion there was a turning point in the development of a clear, united, unsatisfactory political stand. This led to the political opposition that concluded agreements for the end of the council, united. The left movement, the Conspiracy, the Bright Future, and the Pirats were exactly agreed to a day in the discussion of the President's conference board and the abuse of those in the majority of the employment agencies'proposals to the Minister of a Framework Programme. You see, it was so clear because it didn't just turn the motion, it was also about the worry that all of us in the smaller part had, and we have the deepening conflict that the government has had in mind regarding activation and nature protection and the framework laws were designed to set. It has been a major challenge to maintain the conflict in Icelandic society on these and there and exactly in this matter that the strife of the greater part is not merely about nature protection. It's not just about the environment. It's not just about a frame plan. It's all about one case after another, the government's taking over here in the council, promoting war, pimping, and bullying in the name of the majority, but in one case after the other, it has been broken back by this solidarity of the administration body, which resulted in the adjustment of more part of the employment board on the Framework Programme. In the cooperation of the government parties, it says, and I am late tired of reading it, a respectable president: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. A respectable president. In view of this two - year - old history, such goals are completely humorous. Where has the government been able to activate the people's close forces and counteract divisive suspicion? In one case after another, the government has made war in this house and in the community in one case after another, in a labour market, toward the nation, and toward each stake after another. And that's why it's really good to know that we're back in the second half of the season. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u113	A respectable president. We are approaching the final meters on this matter in a most peculiar way. It began with the sieve of the earth's highest power. The Environment Minister recommended a proposal for a single priming mechanism, the Hagming, to be discussed here. He reasoned with a detailed report why only one choice could be provided at the highest level. A minister would have asked an assignment manager to consider additional benefits. After the strange disposition of the greater part of the Generals, the decision was made to refer the case to the issue. Despite the fact that the case had already been discussed by a professional health committee. The Environment and Transport Committee and the case would be in custody at the highest level. Environment Minister, received a peculiar process in which a majority of the Committee finally returned a new proposal, which can truly be called a brand - new case that was contrary to logical support. A minister to why only one priming option was proposed at the outset. Of course, the methodology became the source of the number of discussions held here and focused primarily on practices, focused on the fact that the process had not been followed in the way that was intended according to the newly released law on the 2011 Framework Programme. I'm just celebrating like the rest of them. Councilmen here have spoken to. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came up here and drew back the modification proposal. If it had been done better, it would have been done sooner. But there's a number of initiatives we'll discuss here. I feel compelled to mention three of his discussions. First of all, the ideologies that were meant to apply to the classification based on a framework were designed to get out of the fact that this was making decisions about activations due to the demand of individual companies. Sadly, this was evident in the question of why. The head of the trade board, here, where he was crying very much that the energy companies could not give them positive responses to companies who wanted to do this work, it seems that this ideologies has not yet returned to any reason. Councilmen, the very thought is to weigh exactly different advantages without putting them in touch with the demand of the individual enterprises. We were going to get out of that process, a respectable president. Although it has now been accepted by drawing back the suggestion that this proposal was an inoculation, I cannot stress enough that we must try to stick to it. On the other hand, I thought it would be preferable for us to be discussing other benefits at a time, i.e. that we had waited for the coverage of projects so that these advantages could be associated with each other, since methodology is not based on evaluating individual activation options. Still, there was a conclusion to the project management. But I seriously doubt that here is the best way out, i.e. evaluating only one single activation option. Rather, I would have chosen to look at the whole matter after the time it will take the project management to complete its discussion and also the protection party. That's also what I feel is a threat to this whole process, i.e. The idea of tearing apart the protection and use of it, of being a boy. Environment Committee to discuss protection party but what. Professional committees to discuss a colony party. At the same time, men here in the greater part have overdone the innovation party once it has been confirmed in my incessible queries to the highest level. Environment Minister and Response to show that nothing is going on in the Preservation System, nothing. In the two years that have passed in this terms period, there has literally been nothing in the reservation of protection. Even though it has been approved here in the spring months of 2013, certain advantages would be placed in a protection party and the highest legal obligation. Minister to attend, because nothing has happened. So we have Congress papers to prove it. Madam President. As soon as I'm glad that the adjustment was made, I still feel that there's much to suggest that we need to talk more about the basis on which this motion is based. I've previously introduced the views that I and my movement represent in the structure and environment. [[The president calls.]] They don't have to surprise anyone. There are questions that we need to answer later, even though there will be no tonight at this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u114	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the change to general penal law, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes. The objective of the bill is to remove a law that is contrary to the prevailing view of human rights here on earth. The bill suggests that the 125th gr. the general penalties of blasphemy to go away, which is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ Any who publicly admire or reproach religious doctrines or worship a legal society in this country will be guilty or imprisoned for up to 3 months. A case should not be appealed, except for the prosecuting of the prosecutor. In addition, the bill responds to international criticism of the laws of the Icelandic law that seem to violate freedom of expression. Thus the European Union's Environment and Cooperation Department expressed concern over the limitations of expression freedom in Iceland in November 2013 and particularly since people can be judged in prison for an illegal expression. The ambassador's criticism came about by a bill that became legal at the 143th, 109th issue of that council. The European Council has also concluded that it is right for the state to revise a penalties of punishment, since it is not proper to have laws that limit freedom of expression in the law of law. Then the European Parliament's Venice Committee has also concluded that it is right to eliminate legislation that forbids blasphemy, but it is proper to have a law against hatred propaganda. From 2012 onward, the U.S. Human Rights Advisor of the United Nations, by permission of President Rabat Plan of Care, can also be identified as a ban on hatred speech on ethnic, racial, or religious hatreds that promote discrimination, hostility, or violence. Among the recommendations directed to countries that are set out in the Action Programme is that they violate the law of blasphemy. Most of the people who sent the commission on the bill agree with the views behind it and recommend its approval. This is how the district attorney's review agrees with the protesters' argument that the 125th par. the law of justice will be removed and suggested that the bill be approved. The review of the Bishop's Office points to a resolution of the Synod's support for developing a bill and refers to a law that restricts freedom of expression in the manner of enforcing regulations of 125. a general penal law does not hold a modern view of human rights. Similarly, the comments of Iceland's Prestasion Society, the Social Society of Icelandic Books, PEN, Iceland, and the IMMI an international agency on freedom of information and expression, culture and superstition. A few comments specifically point to the 233rd paragraph. a about hate propaganda. Thus, the review of the Prestall Society and the Aranesp application emphasizes that this law will not be violated, for it covers the factors that should continue to be punished. A few reporters are opposed to the agreed bill. The review ofifiably applied to Article 125 of the statement "Presidents. " This includes the support that needs to be present, and the comments of the Catholic Church in Iceland and the Pentecostal Church Philadelphia point to the religious freedom of the Constitution and worry that the approved bill will open to dishonor the members of the church to their ridicule and reproach. Referring to the preceding narrative, the committee emphasizes that it is not the goal of the bill to eliminate regulations regarding hatred speech or abusive propaganda. Code 233. gr. a will remain secure although the bill will be agreed, which is as follows: ▪ Anyone who publicly ridicules, slanders, taunts, or threats to a person or a group of people by word of speech or by expression, such as by means of images or symbols, by ethnic background, race, religion, sexual orientation, or by gender, will be punished with guilt or imprisonment as long as 2 years ago. There is a fundamental difference between this arrangement and 125th par. The law that the bill is pointing to and concerning blasphemy. Does the Committee count to 233rd? a general penalties fully cover hatred speech and abusive propaganda. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Konráðsdóttir Konásdósdótsdóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Helgi Gunnarsson, who says here, Arnardóttir Lára Arnardótir, Gunnarsdóttir Oldensdótir, Páll Guðbjartur Hannesson, Shernsson, and Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter. So many were those words, a respectable president. I'll stop here. Finally, I suggest for myself that the meetings of the Generals will usually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u115	Madam President. I take a brief pause to celebrate this bill and because it looks like it's going to work. This law is a burden. The only experience is that men have been judged for their unharmable expression of thought. Of course, the candidate of the left green for the last election, who appointed a honor seat on the list of the South Reykjavík Úlfar District, the Wolf Þormóðsson, is the only person living in Iceland who has had to endure the unwork of being charged and convicted according to this law simply for publishing a spin sheet. That was the date of our Lord 1983. A traveling overseer was three and four years old, and we would have, if the paper had not been confiscated, even able to look into it and read us for fun. But thanks to the provision that is now being heard in the past, this magazine has been censored so extensively that there is nowhere to go. This law, his freedom of Þormóðsson, was limited by the freedom of the Úlfar of the son of Shimei. I hope that such a goal will never be set again. Thanks for the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u116	Madam President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a judicial hearing with a change from a health committee proposal for an action plan to promote a remote health care service. The committee has discussed this subject and has been contacted by a number of clients. This body of interpretation suggests that a timely schedule of action will be set up to improve the quality of our health care facilities. A variety of health - care services are provided through telecommunications technology. Officials and members of the Committee were generally positive about the subject of the proposal. More use of communications technology in health care has been found to have high opportunities to improve effectiveness and safety and improve the quality of the service, including by providing access to expertise in health care professionals. Should this especially be true in more scattered settlements, but the potential for urban areas too would be great. It was noted that long - term health care is an extension and development of work, but it was not intended to reduce the quality of the quality of health care facilities in the scattered areas. Therefore, it was directed for the Committee that general policies and priorities should be molded before implementing a time-to-day strategy. It was then found that it might be useful to test individual initiatives for experimental projects in designated areas prior to national induction. The committee agreed to these views. The Committee stated that it was desirable for a task force with a representative from the surgeon general, Land Hospital, the health care of the capital area and the community health care center to work on the shape and operation of policy. In view of the specific translations of telecommunications for scattered areas, the Committee also considers it desirable for another representative of a national ship to be such a task force. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to assign a health minister to appoint a group of non-stational policies and measures to improve national health care and to offer national health care, wherever they are in rural areas, varied, efficient and safe health care. National Health Care Center, National Health Center, National Health Center, and Lands Hospital nominated by one representative of the group, but one representative of the health secretary's ship without a form of appointment. The task force completes its work by March 1, 2016. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, an officer of the Committee, is in agreement with this view. Hv. The rulers of Brumes the son of Níelsson, and the Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, were absent from the hearing. Under this reference work, the article "Aggressively. " Councilmen Ingadóttir Ingavendóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, and Árnadóttir unnijurnadótir, along with this motion, why. paritaprevir While the Björt of Ólafsdóttir, who are away, I recommend this committee on her behalf.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u117	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of General and Education on this matter in terms of the change of public law. This bill suggests that a special penalty for domestic violence will be legalized because of the seriousness of their wrongdoing. The objective of this suggestion would be to reduce the incidence of domestic violence and protect the victims while dealing with the problems of bacteria. Second, police officials are advised to be granted permission to charge a violation against a restraining order, but existing legislation is only charged with the demands of the wrong. We discussed these two aspects of the committee, and as to the specific penalty, we suggest that this law waits. The committee suggested that the text of the law was too general and that it needed an analysis of the 233rd law. a general penal law on threats that are often put to the test in domestic violence. Another reference took place in 194 C.E. a general penal law on rape would be as long as 16 years, but the bill suggests that the greater limit will be six years. There was a suggestion that those who might be considered close to fracture resistance should be defined. In the Committee, we agree with these views and point out that the Minister of Internal Affairs has, among other things, at the request of the Committee and the discussion of domestic violence. Two years, commissioned by a judicial committee to prepare for a change in general penal law, so that domestic violence will be defined as a specific offense in Norway. We were very happy to hear it on springtime to win theJustice Committee, so we can expect that the bill of this material will be submitted to the Fall Summit. Because we think this must be delayed, we now suggest a transition to pars. The bill will be removed. Regarding the restraining order, as discussed at 2 Peter 3: 15, 16. ., it is quite clear that when the law was being set, it appears that it has been lost to make changes in regulations to 242. gr. So the arrangement does not reach the target. Judgments have been passed where a restraining order has been canceled based on the fact that tolerated a restraining order and also against the police's restraining order. Two. it says that a person who violates a restraining order can be accused by police rather than just by the wrong. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, police evaluations should be made at any time whether to charge charges against a restraining order. Now, only tolerability can report fractures against the restraining device. So our decision on the committee had to be made to make 2. If we were to get legalized, we feel that it is very important to combat domestic violence and to accept the seriousness of the offenses discussed in such cases. The commission noted that the reason why violence is not necessarily charged is not necessarily passive but that it is impossible for those who endure it to be charged with fear of further violence. We believe that if the law accepts it it will be possible to enforce the laws of the law, even if violations of law have not required a charge and thus the pressure is lifted, and thus the protection and security of the victims can be guaranteed. Madam President. We suggest that this matter be adopted at the council with the changes presented here. This is why you're signing the one that stands here. Councilmen Páll Valur Björnsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Arnardóttir Earnardóttir, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Helgi Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u118	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct the changing of hunting fees, No. 74/2012 (characteristic rate 2015 ◯2018). This is an understatement from a greater part of the employment committee. The committee received a number of visitors for this matter from stakeholders, companies, fishing and fishing organizations, as well as the labor presidents of individual companies and rural communities. There were also the organizations of financing and marine economists. In the early part of the committee's view, the fishing fees and the bill have been traced. I don't think it's a reason to repeat it, but in the opinion of the committee, it says that more part agrees with what the bill says about the importance of depositing in the fishing road is not based solely on the success of the companies, since it can prevent the diversity of the story. A greater part of the Court's declaration in the Committee's list of parts at the last legislation: the ◯Mei part considers it important that hunting costs and their collections not create instability and uncertainty in the management of marine export companies. The debate over resource costs and the fair share of the nation in the fishing industry are years long. Ideas about the pressures of hunting fees on so - called excess of the fishing industry have been an issue and have created conflicts over the important fishing industry. The majority feel that ideological differences cannot lead to uncertainty in the marine future, so the majority of the remaining components feel that it is necessary to make further peace with the future arrangements for the bankruptcy involved. It is important to bear in mind that the high use of this kind of waste will counteract the aim of a layer of fish control to protect the wide range of outputs and powerful settlements. According to current economic and innovation information, the planned fishing costs can be estimated in 2014/2015 can be studied at 8.5 billion dollars. According to the bill, it is estimated that the cost of fish fishing in 2015/2016 could be up to 10.9 billion dollars. The increase in fishing costs from year to year is about 28% and there is a heavy rise in cava species. It has been observed that such an increase, in particular, in the rise in bottom-fishing costs, is a major concern. For example, if the bill were to remain unchanged, a cod price would be raised by 53.25% and 47.84%, respectively. It can be expected that if the bill continues to remain unchanged that the law will become even more a source of fishing than at the time, and the price would likely be too heavy on less deforestation, which mainly caught a bottomfish. In view of the above, the majority of the items consider it proper to consider carefully all aspects of the matter. The more part of it feels right that once a hunting company completes the calculations of a fishing fee. D-d-a-d-d-d-d-d-d-dr. The bill then introduces a professional committee to the calculation as soon as possible. It is intended to have an opportunity to see if there have been significant changes in the survival of some species. The majority contributes to several changes in the bill, focusing primarily on a practical reduction in the total catcher compared to the bill and some relief for bottom fish production. The changes can be divided into five parts: 1st It is suggested that in the calculator base of bottom fish, 5% stress is expected instead of 20% of the following: all pure profits (EBTs) in salting and warfare, and 78% of pure profit (EBT) production and agriculture. It is also suggested that, instead of 20% of the following: 22% pure profits (EBT) in cryo-conservation and all actual profit (EBT) productions, be expected at a price of 25 percent instead of 20% of the following: 22% pure profit (EBT) for cryo-conservation and all pure profit (EBT). This change changes the ratio between bottom fish and underwater fish, so that bottom fish pays lower fees. 2. The decision of hunting costs is based on 33% of the total bottom-water range and the sea-watering fish instead of 35% of the algorithms for these species. This change results in some reductions in total fishing costs. 3. It is suggested that 10 k/kg extra fares per macroil will be removed, both with the possibility that the North East Atlantic fishing bill will take some adjustments in the treatment of the council, assuming that the so - called six - year rule will be removed, and in addition, there seems to be uncertainty in the macrollar market, and we now cannot justify an additional tax system of this kind. 4. To meet smaller projections that bear the greater burden of hunting costs than previously proposed a significant change in a so - called vacation income market. It is suggested that each subject be entitled to a 20% discount of the first 4.5 million. K. The pressures of hunting costs and 15% off the next 4.5 million. K. the piece of paper. Those of you who are entitled to reduce fishing costs by. 7 mg. Yoo-hoo, y-yo, y-yo, y-yo. The bill, is not entitled to this discount until it is returned, and is calculated as a discount from the price of the fishing due to be set in the future. According to this recommendation, a maximum discount may be received at 1.575 levels. K. Its primary objective is to set the right position for small and medium - size fishing projects. 5. Finally, adaptability is suggested to allow the price of the fishing fee to be delayed by two months in the beginning so that, despite the regulations of Article 6. The bill will include the first period of fishing due to the 2015/2016 fishing season from September 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 and the first date on February 1, 2016. Is this suggested primarily to include a fish room and a customs manager having more time to prepare his local payment? Under this opinion, write why. Councilmen Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Fjóla Hrund Björnsdóttir's daughter, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson was away from the hearing. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the changes involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-30-140.u119	Madam President. I would like to recommend my work force on bill-of-the-employment legislation, No. 74/2012 (characteristic rate 2015 ◯2018). The minority is critical of how late the bill was submitted to the council, which was distributed on the last day of the Congress contributions, according to Article 3. Thirty-seven. Conventional song, i.e. April 1st. It was recommended for the case on April 16, a professional employment committee sent it to review April 24, and gave a postponement to submit a review to April 30. The members of the Ministry approached the Committee on April 21, and presented the bill. As a result, several meetings were held in the committee, where the speakers and visitors came to discuss the matter. Then about four weeks passed before the matter was discussed. The Ministry's representatives met the committee on June 16, and presented significant changes in the bill to reduce hunting costs from the project. They were sent to give comments and discussed with visitors on June 18. On June 23, the case was followed by a chairman at a meeting of the committee on June 24 that it would be settled from the committee. The minority of members of their opposition to how late the bill was and how long the time went without taking the case on the committee. This is a big, important, complex matter that needs longer discussions and detailed data. The smaller portion is directed to the Minister to present such legal bills earlier before the council than is actually a witness. Hunting costs have been first submitted in 2004 and have been provided as shown in the following table, which I am not going to follow closely above. As you can see, hunting costs have increased in recent years. All political groups have concluded with their national meetings that it is reasonable to place a moderate fishing fee in exchange for the nation's use of the resource industry. So the debate is about what is moderate and reasonable, as is its methodology. This will be the subject of the Council for the next few years, and it is important to achieve the full agreement on both the method of stress and the amount of the cost. The bill examines the pressures of hunting fees according to the methodology adopted by the current administrative section of the last legislation panel. According to the above methodology, information was provided in one of the early committee's meetings about the rise of the charges for the next year. From the start of the current government sector, the pressures of hunting costs are still being controlled. The methodology of building stocks for fish does not reflect goods, for example, information is available. Business management, not available. The bill has been removed from trying to control the resource use and is the methodology of taxing the article by hand, depending on the amount to be removed from it at one time. The next year's fishing fee is based on numbers from Iceland's Habitat for 2013. These figures can be seen, among other things, in a table that follows the bill, as well as a change from year to year. This will be referred to two tablets in 2009 for the index of fish fishing and in 2009 in the fishing business. As shown in this table, the average improvement in fish fishing and processing was seen between these years by 26% and by an average of 34% in fish production. As mentioned earlier, the 2013 issue of these remainders is a major part of the basic source of fishing fees for the 2015/2016 fishing year. It has been observed that the largest companies in bottom-watering and ocean-fishing can easily carry higher fishing costs, since their yield is good. However, it is important to meet smaller and medium-sized enterprises. So the smaller section suggests the adjustment proposed in a special Parliamentary document, where an increase in heart beat is recommended primarily for the benefit of smaller and medium-sized enterprises. The total rate of fishing costs as suggested by the less part than 500 million. K. 300 million. K. which contributes to reduced fishing costs for medium and smaller productions. The total cost of fishing this fish year, i.e. 2014/2015, it is estimated to be 9.45 billion k. or 20.3% of pure profit (EBT) fishing and processing in 2012 according to the table above. Taking into account the temporary reduction effect of provisional regulations, it is estimated that the total annual budget for government funds for this fishing year will be 8 billion dollars, or about 17.2% of pure profit (EBT) fishing and processing in 2012 according to the table. Using the same proportion calculations for the coming fishing year as calculated from the recovery of fishing and processing in 2013 would result in a government fund of about 10.4 billion dollars. in hunting sheets without a legal fee for mackerel, about 1.5 billion dollars. The bill assumes 10.8 billion dollars. The price of fishing in the coming fishing year, i.e. 2015/2016, based on the same catch volume used in the fishing budget of the current fishing year, as well as an estimated 1.5 billion dollars. the income of a special burden on the macro so that the total consumption of hunting costs would be 12.3 billion. From this amount, the above - mentioned temporary discounts and the estimated holiday limit, i.e. About 1.4 billion dollars. Thus, the total wealth of the state's budget for the bill was estimated to be 10.9 billion. in the next fish year, 2015/2016. The estimated fishing rate in 2015/2016, according to the original estimate for the quantity of fish in each species, would have been 9,543 million. K. bridge, i.e. without the pay target and without a decrease in debt. In accordance with the decision of the marine dignitary and agricultural minister on the total catch of the 2015/2016 fish year, fishing costs are estimated to be 9,604 billion. K. The bridge. The smaller section does not support the changes made in most of the part, nor does the whole bill result fully in the responsibility of most of the segments that have, in addition, improved their proposals to decrease without any change in the memory of the part or the whole committee. Hence, the decision and methodology at the pressures of hunting fees for the coming three fishing years are entirely responsible for the majority of the sector. The smaller portion feels strongly that until the final outcome on calculation is expected to cover only one year of fishing. The smaller section suggests a change in the setting, as well as the change in discounts mentioned above. The changes in the proposals of my section in a special Senate document that I now recognize are made, but the changes in the memory of the part on the job board are as follows: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. 6 mg. Yoo-hoo, y-yo, y-yo, y-yo. put it this way: The price of fishing is presented to the creditors, as follows:• - and this describes how the discounts are made. - It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The return should be 5.50k. on a cod machine of under 50 tons. b. From 50 tons to less than 100 tons, give 50% discount. c. A raise of 100 tons and up to 200 tons should be given at 33.3% discount. d. Of income of 200 tons and up to 600 tons, give 25% discount. - So the discount described there are 500 million. - ▪2. 1 1. put it this way: This law is already valid and implemented during the pressures of fishing in 2015/2016, beginning September 1, 2015. However, in 2013/2014, about the pressures and final fishing fees are being met by the 2013 fishing season, the laws of the law remain unchanged. Under this consideration and the adjustment proposed in the literature below. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who stands here, and what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller.
