ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u1	A convention meeting can be held for longer than can be arranged for a discussion to be concluded on the scheduled issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to make an interview here very important but serious subject. Many of our members of Parliament unite in this matter or in one way or another. It is, then, primarily a social cost that may be what we should be concerned about, but the economic impact is also under there and our work in the budget. It was found that this could be related to the money policy at an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee this morning. It involves our health, how we can reduce the cost of money to better aspects of it. Adopting this issue can increase the production in society. This is a major structure and protection and structure of employment to name just a few. I'm talking about the big crash in the community called a traffic accident. Sadly, they are very frequent, and they are not shrinking. I'd like people to check that when a road crash and a serious road accident are combined, the number of deaths is increasing considerably, unfortunately, which is not good. If we get together with a fatal accident and a serious accident, they're fewer this year than last year. This is something we have to do. This morning, at the aforementioned meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, it was noted that public investment could be greater, and particularly in the infrastructure, to increase production in the community, but by the operation we were also going to improve traffic security. This is to be kept in mind now as we work on the budget: How can we reduce social costs with increased traffic security? How can we adjust to government management with increased traffic security? How can we increase production in Icelandic society by building transport workers and infrastructure? How can we contribute to a more efficient distribution of tourists and the building of employment? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This, my fellow senators, I beg you to bear in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u3	A respectable president. All too much growth is a major problem between homes and businesses in this country. The rest of these terms has real interest as a home, and a business in the country has to pay up constantly. More and more, the wrong decisions made by the administration groups on tax losses on the big estate, the wealthy in the country, and the high - paying workers in the country have led to higher growth here than they would otherwise have had to be. Since financial maintenance has been reduced and the taxing of those who have the best interests of it has been reduced, the late bank has to increase the maintenance with interest. Therefore, there is good reason to challenge the government to revise these measures because we must not return to that vicious cycle of nonsense that was here in the wake of the collapse when the same political parties competed to reduce taxes on the privileged classes of the country, while the sheik on the other side of the street endeavored to increase the population's interest in the country. The people and businesses in the country can't afford to pay more interest, but the big ones, the wealthy, and the high-payers can certainly be expected to pay the taxes they were paying in the last election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u4	V.E.G. President. I want to take advantage of this opportunity today to discuss traffic laws and especially the use of mobile drivers. Forty-seventh. A traffic law says, with the permission of a president: A motor vehicle driver is not allowed to use a mobile phone without a hand-free device. We have a budget for this traffic violation of 5,000 dollars. Police are regularly advised not to speak on the mobile phone while driving, and they are encouraged to use manual equipment. Over the years, more and more mobile phones are being used at the wheel. When driving into traffic, full and complete attention is needed. As technology floats forwards and more applets on your mobile phone, the harassment becomes more and more, and phone numbers are no longer reporting. Research has shown that over the years more accidents have occurred because drivers do not have complete attention when driving. In a short period of time, the car goes a long way, and much can go wrong if attention is not directed toward the road. Research has also shown that over the years the use of mobile phones has changed. There has been a significant increase in those who use their mobile phones to inspect the Internet below the wheel. I'm really worried about this development. Especially how easy it is to connect to the Internet and easy to connect to some programs in smart time. I wondered, " Do I have to do everything in my power to increase my cell phone use or to place extra money on cell - control prevention? ' No matter what you need to do about the increased cellular use of drivers. Finally, I encourage you sitting here to monitor drivers and note how many really are on your cell phones at the wheel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u5	V.E.G. President. The value of Arion's assets is 289 billion. Twenty-four billion secure debts. Thus, the difference is positive of 85 billion. In Iceland banks, prices are 252 billion, but insured debt of 195 billion, and thus insurance is leveled positively by 57 billion. The value of the Land Bank's holdings is 256 billion and insured debt is 98 billion. Thus, the bank's price insurance balance is positive at 158 billion. Thus, a total of 300 billion dollars are covered with insurance insurance. This was shown in a report published at Science yesterday. It also states that every time inflation rises by one point, the banks profit by $3 billion. if we look at the current insurance equation. At the end of October, inflation was reported to be 1.8%, while the Sustainer predicts that inflation will go to over 4%. This is exactly what we candidates have been saying about the insurance policy, i.e. to profit banks from insurance when inflation rises. This profit is financed by local households and businesses. It is important to assume that a particular interaction is between high interest and insurance. Hence, it is necessary to eliminate the insurance and deal with the growth environment we live in. We have to replace the loan plan that houses have when investing in housing, i.e. The insurance policy. The debt side of the homes is not to be financed by banks. It can't happen. We here need some answers from the highest level. Secretary of the budget to determine when the bills concerning the decommissionment will be submitted to the council. Because of the story that appeared on Visis's website yesterday, and I quoted here, I've prepared an inquiry to the highest degree. Secretary of finance where I'm asking two questions. One is, how much of the price-separated property of the three banks is insured housing loans? The other question is, How much of the permanence of the three bank property is the second responsibly loan to the country's homes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u6	President. I'd like to discuss a little discussion that took place here yesterday in conjunction with a bill for financial support. The discussion stated that prices are being sold for financial purposes. The values mentioned in this context included even 400 billion. It refers to Iceland Bank and Part of the Lands Bank. Thus, in the context of a discussion about a bill for a budget, my question arose: Does not the law mean that trust in the bank does not fall onto a trust fund if the bank does not work? The people must have the least responsibility by the cost and loss of life ahead of them. This is a key issue that needs to be taken care of before the sale takes place. What has been done over the past few years is that when banks were founded, they were made to make their own money no less than 16%, which has actually increased so that the figure of the three big banks is well over 20%. The Basel III protocols are implemented to ensure that substantial financial resources can be provided. But what is to be done here is to decide whether to separate businesses from investment banking and put laws on broken financial companies that are going to get lost. It raises questions as to whether the individual will continue to meet the standards set out in the fallen banks and not in the worn - out careers of continuous banks will be able to secure the interests of citizens. In recent years little has happened, but it is extremely important that this work be rushed so that citizens of the country will not again be faced with responsibility if financial institutions fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u7	V.E.G. President. I would like to make a subject of a rather figurative, pleasant and respectable ceremony outside the councilhouse at lunchtime. There, representatives of the Quantum Coalition wanted to meet us with members of Congress and bring us a gift that was a bird that gives the wishes of disabled people, a great and good work of art, a souvenir, a symbolic gift to us members of Congress. The greatest desire for the Microcleric Alliance on behalf of its clients is that we senators combine to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. He was approved by the United Nations General Assembly on December 13, 2006, signed for March 30, 2007, and is actually half the step. What we need is to validate the contract. There are only six nations in the world who were party to the treaties that have not validated it, and Iceland is one of them. I don't think it's our fault we didn't do it. That is why I, along with 12 other members of the council, could have been a lot more, made a decree awaiting a previous discussion that the General concluded that the government should validate this agreement. With these words, I would like to encourage all members of the council, both great and small, to show that we can unite in such a good deal. Let's take into account the wishes of the Corporate Community and fill that gift in reality, allow the bird in the jar to fly, and let our thoughts be expressed in action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm going to go over my work that morning, where there were three big cases that are important for the council to watch. We had a problem first. A meeting with representatives of the Federal Committee, where a report of the money policy committee was discussed and the decision to make for growth was made last year. All the decisions made by the National Bank are economic, with a high priority. There are two things I find important to draw away from this meeting. First, the growth that is in order to address demand with a reduced provision, at the same time, it is difficult to claim the maintenance of employment life and the home to the interest level. Second, there is reason to be concerned that a familiar cycle of cost - price dermatitis can begin with the related negative effects of an enterprise and the public. Following this meeting, a press conference followed with representatives of Invenence on the other hand, and the Federal Bank on the development of fallen financial companies on the basis of a stable, very important meeting that helps to inform and increase understanding and to be more certain that the release of financial stability and the public's standard of living is in vain. Finally, I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for our date with the representatives of the Embarrastic Community of Iceland, where we accepted a request for greater human rights but our greatest wish is that the United Nations Convention on Human Rights will be validated and, as a result, legalized. I want to express thanks for the symbolic encouragement we received, and there is nothing to wait for. We are to validate the contract and validate it and at the same time let it become an instrument and guide to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u9	A respectable president. During the first nine months of this year, 3,200 Icelandic citizens moved from their country, i.e. 1,130 more than moved to the country. Only five times earlier, this number of expelled people out of the world has been higher than it has been since the years of contracting. It's on the news today. It quotes Ásgeir Jónsson, an economist at the University of Iceland, who says that something deeply profound is here and there is evidence that many university youths do not move home after school or leave the country. In this context, I would like to rejoice that a shovel was taken to a new hospital hotel at the Land Hospital, a major stage and the first development of many in the construction of a new Hospital on the Circle Road. The provision of staff in the existing facilities is unacceptable, and one of the reasons for the training of qualified health professionals is looking for another. It is therefore urgent that plans for building with the Ring Road go along, as it is impossible to overlook the fact that extraction is a fact. Another thing that I think is very important, which involves both the development of the Ringway and the evacuation of young people, is urban development. Countless studies have shown the importance of urban society and its benefits for innovation and technological advancement. In Reykjavík, and actually in the entire capital area, there are many opportunities for better use of land and density within the present market. We have every opportunity to offer well - educated young people a quality of life, but in order to do so, we need to cut knots and solve old issues. Ásdís Hlökk Theódórsdóttir, director of the Organizational Organization, recently told about the building and location of the hospital that it would not necessarily be possible for a large construction site in the capital area, as is here with the property of the hospital on one hand, two main lines on the other, the proposed transportation centre of the capital area at the third and two universities in walking distances and the construction site of technical and knowledge equipment around it. She said it just couldn't be much better. I take my heart to this and encourage members and members of the whole world to push aside their thinking, build up the Hydromosis, and accept the location of the Land Hospital on Ring Road, since that is what will determine whether Iceland will be competitive with other cities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u10	Mr. President. Last week, at the UN General Assembly, there was a vote on the prohibition against nuclear weapons and its spread. Iceland was one of the 29 countries that voted against the proposals. Iceland voted against banning nuclear weapons. The news has surprised many, but it should not be surprising. In fact, Iceland has repeatedly voted in similar matters in line with the direction of the National War Coalition of NATO. It's shocking, to say the hard way, not to the highest. Secretary of state or supreme. Prime Ministers are here this week to back up Iceland's vote, but I've submitted a written inquiry for the subject that hopefully will be distributed here soon. Then I hope there'll be some answers about these matters. But although Iceland has voted against the ban, the resolution was better, I allow myself to say, with a vast majority of the areas where 128 countries voted on the ban, 29 against and 18 would sit by, including some NATO Member States. Congress, i.e. Iceland's General Assembly, however, can still intervene in this dreary foreign policy of Iceland. An innuendo that is proposed by the one represented here, along with others. Councilmen, who agree with the proposal elected by the United Nations, wait to get on the program. In view of this report, I think it is particularly important that it be started on as soon as possible, preferably before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u11	V.E.G. President. The marina pantry and/or armadas, under hit, are being picked up by their little boat shops. The reduction in the number of autobiographical projects is likely to be explained. One explanation is that because of negative discussions about the cooling system, it is most advisable to sell before they are taken off. Also, larger productions that buy the quatans, usually by fishing, know that although the saying system is changing, fish will continue to be caught and won by Icelanders. The beach fishing system was put on poorly prepared preparation at the time, yet some adjustments have been made. A national relationship between small boat owners has given rise to ideas about changes worth paying attention. The conclusion is that this coastal fishing system should continue with the change that ensures greater safety for a more reasonable seafaring and more uniformly between hunting areas. A few years ago, whites were banned to the surprise of most fishermen. The explanation was a failure of the strain. Yet, we still hunt in most fishing instruments. Very strict rules were set, for example, on a line where when a nerd bites, like in salmon, fishs, and escapes. Gray-free fishing is under advisement by the NTSB to call self-sustaining. The advice is thus designed to assess the size of the spawning population by means of a grading gray patch, which is a step - by - step catch in a troll of research ships. In recent years, sire walked into British farms and planned to catch the shellbs in bait. But those hook-up boats can't catch her with nets, just hooks. Fish can be caught in a net by fishing boats, but they do not have a greeting to do so. The small boats that caught her in a net on the Bountiður were allowed to take it out of pots made on a mackerel - drawn tug - tuged trawler. Since 874 C.E., a single - boat factory has been practiced in Iceland, thus setting a good example. It needs to be reinforced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u12	V.E.G. President. Iceland's Secret Bank called went to a meeting. The Economic and Business Committee this morning, and I can't say that the bank hearing at that meeting has given you a lot of optimism about their involvement in a general economy in Iceland. The meal was a reminder of the behavior of cats in a sandbox that scratches over what they leave behind. [[The point is, What do they leave behind?]] For one thing, the main economicist said that in Iceland inflation is created in a country, and that is absolutely correct. This has contributed to increased growth in excess of what needs to be done, and has thus increased the cost of SMEs and mediums who have no other option than to consider the cost of earnings. Then there was one thing I have to take down and bow to when the chief economist said about the price of oil, with the permission of the highest price. President: I fear that this will change, however, would no longer be the case. Then the tents fall apart, and we are left with this growing domestic inflation pressure. I'm just bowing in humility. I think all the major experts in the world believe that oil prices will be low here until a period of 10, 15 years. But Iceland's management interest today has to be high because oil prices are likely to increase in Iceland within 10 to 15 years. I must admit, Mr. President, I'm deeply worried about this. I have to say, too, that with what the money bankers said this morning, they in themselves were accepting their own growth initiatives causing inland inflation, causing the society's economy to be worse than they would have to be. There's got to be some sort of redoubt of this in the Secret Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u13	Mr. President. I'm going to do two things for today, that's this jar with an origam bird that was delivered to us today when Iceland's Environment Association came here and handed over to the Minister of Minister of the State 17 of the United States. signatures. This challenge is to proclaim peace and tranquillity and to serve as a publisher, or at least it is a Japanese religion. However, what we members of Congress need to bear in mind, as well as in the administration, is that it is not enough to establish laws or introduce the contract. We need to adopt the ideologies when it comes to the law in general. In view of the fact that this subject has been discussed inexpensive housing and changing regulations, some of the ideas include that not everyone needs to be accessible to everyone. I think we need to think carefully over the box and think about taking action rather than in word. It's not enough to introduce this deal. There is something else that I would like to discuss here today because I feel overwhelmed when meeting together. We have two meetings, one from the Professional Association and the other from the Industrial Association. You ask yourself, " Is this a matter for men, or is it just women, or is this a matter of both genders? ' The need for a focus of the apartment market is a heading for the Industrial Association, which will address the new identification of the Industrial Association of the Biodiversary. There are five men there who are going to do something about it. True, they offer a chairman who is a woman. That's very kind of them. Then there is a sea cable conference for Europe at the National Association of Professionals and there are six men to discuss it. A respectable president. In what world are the people here running a huge organization and speaking of important social matters inviting the Icelandic people and Icelandic women to be with mere men to read and invite them to participate in the meetings? [[The president calls.]] This is an unsurpassed, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u14	A respectable president. The response to my talk on the bank dumps was great and heavy - for everyone, everywhere in society. [[From me.]] It has been observed that although the bank manager had criticized me for my comments, he has now admitted that they made mistakes in the bank. Síman's mistake, however, is not recognized. It seems that the shit index is up to its level, just like it was here before a crisis. There they are not going to return a vicious spoil, as the thieves are reluctant to do. I say so to you, my dear friends here in this hall, and I'll say it to the people: We need a national campaign against corruption in the banking system and in the commercial world. It's a disaster to watch this. People are shocked, and I encourage the high Council to abandon business dealings with companies like Shimann. That's what I'm going to do, and I encourage the nation to resign from this company. We're supposed to stick together and stick together. We don't want this kind of business in Iceland. We had enough of that during the crisis, and we don't want to see it. It's a social conflict, and it's our job to deal with these things, set rules in this hall that such a business can't happen in the community that offend people day after day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u15	The president asks why. Senators guard their speeches with words. It is possible to express their views without undue importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u16	A respectable president. A headline, in the News magazine, reminds me, caught my attention this week. A young man who had spent the night in an emergency room asked for a mental - health professional who was sent home to tell him that the mental department would open at the end of the week. The next day, 12 days. At the same time, Iceland has the highest suicide rate. The suicide rate among young men is their leading cause of death. I think it's very serious, and I'm ashamed that we as a nation will not do better in this business. I know that if I came to the emergency room or sought help for appendicitis, I would immediately be treated even if I could live another two days. Maybe it wouldn't be an emergency, but I'd get help. When it comes to matters of mental illness and of those who suffer from spiritual illness, it is as if we are just back in ancient times. The bioavailability of psychologists is extremely small and poor. Very few child-adolescents are active in this country, I think only one of them in the country. We put too little money in this and too little emphasis on this party, as if we were putting mental problems or this illness into someone else's but if I had my arms broken, heart disease, or anything like it. This is not welcome. I wonder now that we're talking about the budget and that we're going to go back to paying taxes on middle incomeers and better off on whether it's our priorities. Would the 5 billion that the Kingdom will no longer be used in this series of languages? Does it not describe us as a nation that we cannot give good service to people, young men, children, youths with mental problems? [[The president calls.]] It's gonna cost us, it's gonna cost us a human life. A respectable president. It's not okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u17	Mr. President. Despite a number of problems involving children in this country, however, there are very pleasant things to do in this series of languages in many parts of the country. I'd like to mention the ART in that regard. ART stands for aggrassion of Replacement Training, and is about social skills, self-control and moral training of children with behavioral problems. In this country, children and their families have been worked with in most schools, e.g. conducted in the South, as well as studies for school staff, social services, and health care in many countries. The ART team of Southland's three highly knowledgeable and therapeutic staff. They guide and support the staff that need to initiate ART training for the first time. Another major factor in the ART work is helping families of the children who are experiencing these difficulties. What a joy it has been to have a family like that, and a total of 250 families have been assigned to the team in the eight years they have worked and are able to see a lot of results for both the children and the family as a whole, about 88%! There was a 11 - to - one reduction in emergency care between 2007 and 22013. In the area as well as in Southland health institutions, members of the family have also seen great success in the children and families who have undergone the training. The ART project in the South has been on budget for the past few years and was last included in the 20/2000 plan of the previous government. Now, however, Mr. President, the ART project will complete from time to time with next year if financial support cannot be assured. The Ministry of Success granted 27 billion. K. to run the assignment in the Southland last year, and local rural areas paid over 8 million. I challenge a social minister to respond promptly to ensure this ongoing life project and to get a well-known research team to investigate the results of the project and to determine the subsequent results that will be presented. This will save the government long - term social and economic resources. Mr. President. You see, ART's smart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u18	A respectable president. It's not too many years since Iceland and I were in that place that if we fell into a boat or freezehouse of fish that we thought was ugly or weird, we would throw them away. They were mostly foreigners, if they were in the area, e.g. Our Faeroe brothers, who took it and laughed at us because we didn't use this good product. We often use this comedy because we feel that we have been so foolish. However, I wondered if we are still in that place of the same place, just in terms of another. Now, fortunately, people around the world are putting more emphasis on wholesome food than ever before. I'm not aware of that, despite research showing that we have a more healthful, traditional meat products than other European nations, we and the Norwegians are special when it comes to the use of antibiotics, that it is being maintained anywhere. We talk like it doesn't exist. I'm not one of those people who thinks eating foreign meat is hilarious. If anyone wants to eat foreign meat, whether the animal was fed with genetically modified barley, hormones, or anything like that, I feel that people should be free to do so. However, I believe that we as consumers should be informed about what is in our product, meat as well as other meats. I find that much is lacking, as is the fact that we use the benefits of wholesome farming products. It is some kind of world record that we have this product at the same time and pile up meat mountains, e.g. In agriculture. These are not the interests of farmers, they are the interests of the nation, and indeed the store too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u19	V.E.G. President. Here's a vote after 2nd. The bill to legalize the Marine and Water Studies that was actually discussed at the last council but recently entered and worked on a professional committee. This was done while I was outside the council. First, I want things to go both to committees between 2 and 3. Then I'd like to explain our vote for the United States Congress. We are not opposed to the union of the Prince as it is put up here, and we hope it will be a great improvement for both institutions and all of us, but I am giving orders on the personnel matter, especially because we were received to the Committee as approved by the government from the last spring on some new avenues to the disclosures of employees to our institutions. There has been a small improvement in the provision of temporary adjustments in the proposals we will make, but our main concern is that the matter takes place between discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u20	Mr. President. Here comes the vote of the first bill of two that are linked together to the Institute of Veterans and Marine Research, a bill for Marine and Water Research. We're not going to be able to subsidize this case, and for that reason we've been most critical of how to deal with the personnel of the institutions and how to tell them all and to break up the employment relationship and return to the new agency. The work of the Committee seems to have been discovered that, among other things, humans have overlooked the loss of various rights, and a majority of the committees are trying to see by means of a new proposal on the deck. 328. We have no guarantee, however, that there is calmness there, and this methodology can be criticized. Second, we consider the lack of professional reasons for the union of the Agency and in this direction. This was carefully examined by one of three, four years ago, and the conclusion was that this institution was more relevant and more relevant to home under the Environment and Resource Ministry than to the Department of Human Resources, which carries the innovation factor. To this end, there are both important arguments related to the individual interests and then professional arguments that make us unable to support this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u21	A respectable president. It's clear to everyone that Iceland has too many government agencies. It is positive when humans engage in the work of uniting there to achieve greater economic advantages. The primary objective is to render good service to the people of the country and to care for the interests of taxpayers, and it was initiated as a goal in this matter, and we must celebrate it, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u22	V.E.G. President. I come up on behalf of the bright future to celebrate this bill and a vote on it. This is an important step in implementing the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, small paces, but, as we noticed this morning, the Microcollar Union came with a signing pass to encourage us members of Congress to validate and legalize the agreement. That would be the best thing we could do. I would also like to use this opportunity to remind you of another bill for a law in the council, but it has not been recommended, of the adjustment of the regulations of various laws on the prohibition of discrimination (the right of disabled persons). This is what we set forward to help the Council and the Commission to try to validate this as soon as possible, and I encourage the Board of Congress and Congress to take that bill as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u23	President. I'm glad we're taking a chicken step but suggest we start taking these giant steps. For example, to put things in perspective, here is one change, instead of a word of 222 stylus. The law comes: a person with developmental impairment. We have such ghosts in the legislation here on the land, and it's amazing how long this takes. We need a lot of things to settle here at the council. Let us take giant steps and introduce this important covenant that will enhance the rights of those to whom we will make sure that they are assisted and helped, since they truly need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u24	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, with subsequent changes. The matter has been a long way of dealing with them. It's been six years since the work of reexamination of nature protection law began, and now we're seeing the end of that work. This committee has been discussing nature protection laws throughout the terms of the season. During the last assembly, the commission was well agreed to postpone the taking of the law rather than cancel it. During the last session, the Committee met several times with representatives of the Environment and Resource Ministry to review the 2013 law that the Committee assigned the Ministry to work. Then, in the fall, we have discussed the results of that work, and we have come back to a good deal of agreement about the final outcome. Surely, that should be a cause for rejoicing! There are a lot of data in this case. The Committee's opinion is detailed, and it can also be pointed to the Committee's opinion of the Committee from spring Council 2014 when an agreement was made to postpone the implementation of the law. The work of the Committee has most emphasised on the issues that the Committee assigned to the Ministry to work on. It consisted of precautions, public rights, road and map base driving, special protection regulations, and alien species. These are the fundamental issues of the law that were the most controversial and the greatest was about in their time when the law was accepted. That the point was reached is of utmost importance, for the law in other respects is a major step toward protecting nature in Iceland, which everyone agrees on. I'm going to go through my speech just briefly with these points, but for further support, I refer to the committee's opinion. The Commission suggests a change in the implementation of a precaution that involves explaining in a much better way when it is appropriate and how it should be done. It was evident during a previous discussion that people had different opinions on the subject, and many thought that it was unclear what it meant, when it was appropriate, and how it should work. It is a big step in making progress that in these laws we should be legalizing the precaution, which is a key principle of the environmental rights, but it is also important that the rule of caution is not always appropriate, even if by its actions it may result in environmental damage. In this way, it should be avoided to put too much emphasis on it because its core means that it applies only in cases where there is uncertainty about the consequences of action or inactivity in nature and the environment, if there is certain to be a negative environmental impact, not on safety, but on the rule of preventive measures, another principle of the environmental rights. The national legislation that covers the environment rests largely on the general safety issues and is well pleased. However, in order to explain the value of the precautionary principle, the Committee will suggest certain changes in the bill that when it is granted by the regulations of the law, which will then involve the risk of adverse environmental impacts or interference in the peace-circuits or in the memory of special protection, the uncertainty that may be in particular in order to obtain better data and to shed better light on it, so that the person who provides the exception, the permission team, can make a decision based on the best information and take precautions if so. In this way the action of the precaution will be clear, clear when appropriate, and how to apply it, and when in doubt, we will let nature enjoy the doubt. The committee discussed quite a few things about the law's regulations on public rights. The Universal Court is deeply rooted in Iceland's legislation and is very important to us. So that we can enjoy the unique nature of the land, we must have the right to take care of it and the right to protect it. However, it is quite clear, and the committee all agreed that we need to approach the natural barriers in many places because of the huge increase in the number of tourists in our country. The number of these has doubled over the past five years, and we are now facing a new reality in that regard. Therefore, we must resort to some kind of control if it is not bad, and in that case, we must simply consider whether the public right that is so important to us should include those who are commercially exploiting natural quality. They simply have to contribute to the protection of nature, which creates the income they survive. This, therefore, is inevitable in the last loss of tourism and how to take it. The way the committee suggests it is to assign the Ministry to include new regulations for the management of tourism in terms of the public court and on the basis of nature protection. This is in place in the protection laws on the rights and duties of tourists. These factors have much to do with, e.g. that tourism companies negotiate with rural, rural, or other organisations for a more structured travel permit, for management or limitation of the number of them in certain sensitive areas, etc. There are many things to consider, and the committee leaves them quite open, and it needs to have extensive consultations with many parties and the community as a whole so as to be at peace with these issues, and tourism can continue to flourish. However, I would like to mention that the Commission suggests that the EEA can get clearer and more efficient sources to close damaged areas and that the committee takes steps to protect nature. In the road transport section, the main changes are in a new approach for map bases across road and path in the Iceland's nature to be allowed to drive. Just because a driver knows that he is driving outside the road and that he knows that there must be a solid map base. The bill suggests a approach that the rural communities suggest roads and paths within their own limits and consult the EEA before providing the database. In this way, we take part of the responsibility of protecting and driving around the local community, a positive change. I think it's safe to say that in recent years the public opinion of driving has changed and that there's a need to be a clear legal exception to him. We also need to get the reliable message to foreign tourists who arrive here that it is forbidden to drive outside unless there are clear exceptions in the law. The bill on permission for implementation when there is a risk of a disturbance of a natural memory file or a memory that enjoys special protection is similar. It suggests that there will be a return from the harsh 2013 wording of the law, which many, including the 2013s, will be replaced. Companys, make comments. The results of the Commission in these issues are a compromise in which there is a direct compromise because it is safe to say that these topics were somewhat related. First, they include and think that the format of the Precaution Committee includes decisions that are taken when there is a risk of sharing peaceful memory, memory of a natural memory or memory that will be disturbed by special protection. This certainly contains a stronger protection under the 2013 law. Second, the Commission suggests that public interest needs to be implemented which may interfere with parts of the C nature Memorial. In this way the committee is saying that simple financial interests are not the only ones that work alone. They either have to be enormously large or come to other important social interests that could be counted as public interest. Third, the committee suggests that when there is a risk of a memory disorder that has to be enjoyed by a special committee, it is absolutely necessary. This changes will result in a stronger nature protection than would be valid under the 1999 laws as well as a more efficient, stronger, and more reliable protection than the 2013 law. The changes I've considered are the most important changes, without little change being made. In addition, the Commission suggests a number of smaller changes and technological changes discussed in the Commission opinion and points to further discussion. Finally, I would like to reiterate to the conclusion that we have here, indeed, should be delighted, and I believe it is a significant milestone that at the Council, we have reached a parapolitic agreement for the protection of nature. I'd like to then thank the members of the Environment and Transport Committee for a very good cooperation and intensive and balanced work. I want to thank the members of the Committee. I want to thank the current and former environmental advisers, the head of the Ministry, the staff of the state stems and others who came before the committee. We list the number of people who have an opinion of nature protection laws. We concluded that we should talk with all who might have something to say or would have something to say or might have something to say about it. Everyone got to say what they wanted so we could get all views on the table. I think it was extremely important for the committee to make this good peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee for his history, and I would also like to thank him and other members of the Committee for the great work they have done in this matter. I was on the committee when the decision was made not to call back the protection laws of nature, and to postpone the execution of values, trying to work hard to make peace so that we could see an improvement in the affairs of nature protection here. I like to see the work the committee has done and, of course, to the highest extent. The Minister and Ministry of the Environment for us to be here to see this improvement experienced. I'd like to express my joy with that. But I would like to ask. A member of the Parliament on the provisional issue of public rights. I have a clear understanding that within the short time frame that the Environment and Transport Committee has been working, there has been no time to address the opinions of the public rights, especially as well. A senator mentioned here that, of course, questions related to remuneration are, in which it is very important that justice will be destroyed, and then I am testifying that although the EEA's assessment is available, the currency of natural bulbs is actually not allowed, however, it appears that there is a need to explain it more clearly in the law, but it is also important that clear permission to limit access, for example, to protect nature. What I wanted to ask you. A senator's main concern is that two ministers, environment and tourism, receive this assignment and complete it by the fall of 2017, so I would like to ask if. The Environment and Transport Committee will have some access to that work and whether the Committee intends to address the situation because I suspect that the issue will be high in official discussion over the next loss. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u26	A respectable president. I want to thank you, too. A senator for fine cooperation, who was on the committee when we decided to postpone our draft and try to handle the matter in this reconciliation. It may be difficult to speak on behalf of the entire committee, but we agree at least that everything that turns to the public rights has changed in a relatively short time. What was discovered a few years ago about free movement has changed somewhere, I'm going to make a statement. So we didn't consider it advisable, when we had the nation's largest industry at the same time, to think that the committee would have some spectacular changes. We thought we needed more time. I think that was a reasonable conclusion. That was a good thing to do. In terms of consultation with the minister, we don't particularly have that in our opinion, but I just call out for it, and I know the Ministry has been offered and prepared to cooperate with the committee. The Committee will call for information on how the work is going on, perhaps during the spring, and we will try to maintain good cooperation and conversation with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. You're right. A senator says that, of course, our ideas for this right thing have changed as we look at the population of the country multiplied by the arrival of much more foreign tourists than before. However, it is clear that the questions are on the table. It is also clear, and I would like to mention that this is also under discussion in the Constitutional Committee. I hope we will discuss some of her suggestions at this council, and that's where the public rights are involved. I think it's important, and maybe it's really nice that if we can establish this in a constitution, it's not too bad to work it out in a very clear way in the legislation. So I can agree with that. A senator that it may be beneficial for us here at the council to have this period of pressure discussed on the matter from all sides. I would like to use the opportunity and encourage the committee to take an active part in the conversation, for there are some views that are subject to the interests of the public here and to the rights that many have considered of enormous importance and have long been in domestic rights, but of course, how we can guarantee a normal interaction with tourism, nature protection, and so on. I think there are many views, and I encourage the committee to take an active part in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u28	A respectable president. I thank you for the encouragement, and I'm telling you right now that we're going to have that kind of consultation with the Ministry. All the views mentioned by the senator must be considered. It's a big case of opinion, and as mentioned earlier, we now have the nation's largest industry. That is a new reality for us Icelanders. We are then talking about the boundaries of property and public rights. In fact, we agreed that the feeling of being able to cross their country is something that everyone wants to hold on to, but as soon as they start making the right thing for a job, there are many viewpoints that need to be considered much better. What we did, and I think is very good, is that we specifically assigned the EEA and landowners the right to intervene if we see that somewhere there is a natural disaster on the road to travel. Although we have said that we will only wait, in my opinion, take a very important step because no one wants to see nature become subject to some kind of disturbance. I think we agree very much on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you too. A member of the Parliament and the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee cooperate in this case and congratulates him on this decision, as well as on other members of the Committee. It's a pleasure to be able to land this thing with a joint committee party, although not everything is the same. I think this case is first and last to win for Iceland's nature and, in the same way, perhaps the political victory of the former supreme. Environment Minister, Svavarsdóttir, who is the founder of the legal case, of course, of course with the changes that have occurred during this terms. In the last half of our hard work, which was joyful in many respects, but not without conflict, we failed to meet up with laws about driving outside. In the final meters, we have made adjustments to the bill, which, in effect, is less than the highest standards of the committee. Because there are not material changes in the process of making changes, I would like to ask why. A senator knows if he has studied our proposal and if he is not interested in it as is used in the bill. I think that if the members of the Environment and Transport Committee were to study the wording as it now appears, they would see that this is a much more neat, more efficient way of putting aside the road without any material change from what was but much clearer legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u30	A respectable president. I also thank a senator for his cooperation. I think a lot of people are able to survive as winners after all this long process, and I'm not going to let anyone out of it, here, everybody has done their part, including former environmental ministers. Regarding road transport, there is a huge debate. It was achieved when the law was adopted in the spring of 2013 by the then government. I haven't wanted to walk much over that reconciliation, we stepped some small step, very small, because many people had some comments there. Similarly, the Ministry worked hard to see if there was a basis for changing the law, i.e. holding the principle and such very clear exceptions. The results of the Ministry were the same as I've described, not going into major changes. Simply put, I believe that the arrangement as it is now set out is very clear and well - defined. I've felt that it's best to have exceptions in the law. For example, I have not agreed with this approach, as it is today, that Secretary of Regulation explains the matter, and in view of this, I will not accept the adjustment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u31	A respectable president. There we go, me and what. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þórhallsson, in these things, is because I don't think the bill and the law that it is now clear. Under these circumstances, a lot of reporters, perhaps especially when it comes to land - related jobs, took place. The original bill was permitted to drive out of the road because of operating outside the central highlands, but the posts of the central highlands were released. The next sentence in the paragraph indicates that farmers are forbidden to drive within the middle of the country, yet the other would have been clearer. The sources needed for rescue teams, police, firearms, and medical transport are in place in the changes we have made in the smaller section as well as the permission of farmers for demand, as the bill 2013 assumed. Other persons who have an exception under the law need to obtain special permission for the EEA. That's what we think is normal, we want to reduce these terms, and I think it's very, very much what the people in the world have to do about this aspect of the law. That's why I'm encouraging you. A senator as well as a majority of the committee to see very carefully whether we can work together on this one point here in our final record of a different cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u32	A respectable president. Yeah, we didn't quite get together on this, but it's absolutely true that it doesn't make much difference. First, I would like to refer to the agreement that has been made and that many people have had to, for their work, for their tradition or custom, to travel through Iceland's highlands. The purpose of this was not somehow to limit it. However, we wanted to establish a principle that prohibited driving there. Nor did we completely agree on whether the Agency could allow special permission to confer authority on other sources and that Ministers of the Regulation. I think we're going this way because we wanted to take it from that path. This isn't clear enough. I believe that this law is better placed in the law. It is simply a law in Iceland as it is today that this is under the Regulation as required in this Regulation, that the minister of this Regulation shall more closely require the conditions for the granting of annuity in this issue. I'm not there, but, of course, I respect the fact that these adjustments were made. I'm sorry we didn't reach 100% solidarity, but I'm really happy with 99.9%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u33	A respectable president. We'll discuss in common the opinions of the Environment and Transport Committee on a bill to correct a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, the fateful week ending on the magic date of November 15, 2015. It Is the Day of Natural Protection, No. 60/2013, go into force with the adjustments we are offering here. I'm especially glad that we've come together to determine the nature of these changes. This is a major legal step for Icelandic nature. This is a significant improvement from the 1999 Law. No matter what part of the law we're looking at, we're better than in the current law. This, of course, was the purpose of the expedition when it was introduced in the summer of 2009 when white books on nature protection were made in Iceland. As reality exists among us who are in politics and who take the lead, we often feel that the ideal periods are long when we are in smaller parts, but we feel short when we choose something. I've been very thinking about it when it comes to extensive legislation as it is here, when we're talking about the overall re-examination of this weight and of this width, it's hard to see that such work can be done within the ideal period. It is simply so that if you are going to go through every corner of the discussion and the discussion on all aspects of the matter, you will need a larger subject and the conclusion we are finding here is the result of two terms 'programmation. It is not by any chance that we come to such conclusions in the political tradition that, unfortunately, we are dejected more often than not, as someone has called a headrous government, where we tend to put aside what the previous government did in order to reach a blank table and a clean blade itself. In this regard it may have been the tone that was struck by the current government during the first days after it began. Then, with a long discussion and a great deal of agreement, the law would simply be removed and the wise decision was made to build on them and on the hard work that had taken place in the lead - indeed, not just work that was put up by politicians but as well as on all those most familiar in this troubled sector. Then we are talking about those who know best about nature protection and the views underneath, i.e. The institutions and bodies that must work under the law, the scholars and professionals in these areas, the subversive movements, and the stakeholders who either need to be protected by nature or to take a position with nature, and to rejoice that they are protected. In the work that the Committee has had for the past few weeks and since the beginning of work at this council, we have actually made a recommendation. The Environment Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir of the 2013 Act of Change. I would especially like to express my appreciation for the fact that the matter was the custody of parapolitic approach, although it was a traditional form of administration. In effect, each part of the prime minister's program for open and critical discussion was given a viewpoint that was discussed and tore. We then attempted to reach a common conclusion. It's a complicated, large law order. We have a large administrative body of 38 votes in the hall on a good day, or bad by the way we look at it, and that's why I'm especially happy that we're able to run this off together. That's not an default case. I've allowed myself to say that it takes less responsibility to achieve a parapolitic stand. Today, all of us face the temptation to take advantage of political advantages for the day and immediately to look forward, but in the case of such a big deal as the CDC for Icelandic nature, we add a string. We did it, we did it very hard, and a good group of minority members of the Environment and Transport Committee that came well prepared and read it well, as we were fully aware of what each story was all about. The lack of doubt, the absence of misunderstandings, and the agreement that we agree on the basic factors we are discussing are taking on the job. Of course, the fact does not eliminate the reality that we disagreed on big issues, i.e. the most part and the smaller part, and sometimes nothing more or less, but others who disagreed on big issues. Here's what we need to talk about. paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, chairman of the committee, and why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall's case showed off road. This may have been what happened in our changing plans in the memory of the part and is one example of such a case that I think we would have resolved if we had had had had had more time and if the committee had gone to work early because we had put our heads under in the last ten days. That spring would have had to start earlier. Then we would have agreed on this point like the others. I'm sure of that. I would like to mention some material things and, first of all, those responsible for the precautions. As we have seen, it is quite clear that the introduction and format of the Precautionary principle is a subject and discussion of the number of scholars working in this field. It is also equally clear that there is not one defined, clear, and disintegrated school in that subject. We became aware of this in the work of the Committee, and on chapters we were like doctors serving caution on the work at the Committee when we were very deep in both definitions and understanding of individual factors. I believe the Committee has agreed that the precaution we're setting is not only in the protection laws of nature but also in planning and engineering laws, is intended to be effective. It was our common objective, and after a few overwhelming questions, this was the way, the one presented in the bill. It's different from the law No. 60/2013. That led to the conclusion of that work, but as soon as this is gone, there is an agreement and a certain reconciliation. With regard to the methodology, as with all the other factors of this bill and this case, it is true that if we had been a smaller and more uniform group, the result might have been different. But it's not our subject here, it's to suggest a common, cross political, cross-cutting and cross-cutting conclusion. With regard to the public court discussion, I feel very important that we should think that the committee will make a number of adjustments that everyone is going to make to support the public rights while facing the fact that the subject is too extensive to complete in the short time she has had. As a result, it was decided to take a temporary course in which the minister is assigned to begin work that turns to evaluate, define, and establish laws, probably under the same transnational flag as we have benefited from working until now, in what way Iceland's lawgiver wants to see the interaction of the ancient public rights, the protection of nature in Iceland, and the growing tourism. This interaction has to be done, and we need to make a deal about it. Under the present conditions, there will be no longer any pleasure. That's perfectly clear. There's too much opinion and too much conflict. All of these things must be finished. If we are lucky to continue to do so in the same spirit as we have worked so far, I don't think any committee is better than an environmental and transport committee that should be given as much as I think. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I liked listening to the radio during the days, and someone said, "The tourist is no longer a guest in Iceland. Now, the tourist is actually a permanent resident in Iceland. We need to stop thinking that there's a temporary situation we're talking about when the tourist comes to Iceland because there's an ongoing situation with the rest of us. By thinking it that way, I think we're getting closer in a new way. Then I am not just talking about interaction with nature, as is the case with the planning and construction of urban areas, and especially with the capital area. The chapter about driving out of the road. It was so clever of our fateful spring 2013, when we were in an election, and it was one of the hot cases that it was like driving off the road was the biggest battle of a large part of the nation. I don't think it's been in recent political history that it appeared as many full - page advertisements in the media to promote a single election, such as the colored printed advertisements under the flag of travel freedom. It is as often happens that in the political heat of the day, natural protection laws became quite available to make some special joke about shutting down the highlands to everyone. The one here was meant to be the terrible red button that was about shutting down the highlands to everyone. This would fit into a certain image that a woman had gone mad and was opposed to progress and economic growth, as it would be in harmony with the closing of the highlands. It was a little tricky to get some sense in the discussion, which made this chapter a special juncture in a discussion about the protection laws of nature in the spring of 2013. Since then, the day at work followed by the Environment Ministry, which took part in working on the terms of the committee in the spring of 2014, there was no great material disagreement that driving should normally be banned unless there were special reasons to do so, and it would need to be given an exception in some way, in other terms, for farmers, etc. We were never talking about anything else. However, much more focused on how and how to keep track of URLs in Iceland, where to drive, and where not to drive. There I believe that both the 2013 chapter and the changes made here have been successful in reaching out for matters that are much more practical than political. This is an example of how when elections close to elections, people can lose sight of the subject and begin to throw the most successful pieces of opportunity into the campaign industry. There was something that happened there, but it seems to me there's a smell in principle. However, in our memory, we make the suggestion. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall explained that we believe that it is important in the law that agriculture is permitted to operate if there is a need to drive outside the middle of the country, and that portion of the text has been in all previous texts. It was in the current Regulation, which was published in 2005 on the basis of the 1999 law. He is on bill 2013 and in the 2013 approved law, but suddenly these two words were gone, and many people pointed to it. The Organization, the Natural Institute, the EEA, and other institutions pointed out that this was likely a misdemeanor. We talked about this on the final meters. I'm not saying that men were rested on those meetings, but the majority agreed that instead of putting these into the law text, as is natural with all reason, it would be put in the committee's opinion that it was the understanding of the Committee that law 1. 31. The law doesn't force an dilation of a license to drive outside the road. It became just one 1,24,000 words in a committee party rather than a two - page text text, but let it lie in the middle of a section. We're going to test it here at the Assembly Hall whether we're not in general on having legislation as the most practical and the best explanation for the information in the Law text itself. We'll discuss it later in votes and discussions. In terms of special protection and part of nature's disintegration, I think it is very important that we order here to allow public interest to interfere with some of the C-sections of nature. Here we are strengthening the protection of the C-part from what was on the prime minister so it takes more than financial interests, but it takes much community interest to interfere with C-list memory. Also regarding special protection memories: Instead of saying that their disorder should be avoided where possible we say: Avoid their disorder unless absolutely necessary. In effect, we are adding some weight to the protection of their nature beyond what is in the prime minister, although the law of No. 60/2013. It's an exchange, but it's a legal remedy from the current court. We also added a section on the peace description of specific water systems. It was suggested by a minister that this section be taken out, but one of the most extraordinary characteristics of Icelandic nature is a vast, unnoring water system that cannot be damaged. There are very few water systems in Europe that remain completely virgin and may be unique on a global scale. It is important, as mentioned in the committee's opinion, that nature protection laws reflect the uniqueness that is really global. That change was made. A respectable president. It seems to me that time is almost running away from me. I would like to discuss more about the individual factors and the changes we made in the activities of the Committee to provide protection for birch forests, which are referred to in the 2007 Environmental Ministry report, Protection and Retrieving of Icelandic Birki forests. To strengthen the definitions that are referred to this review, and more such factors are below. Finally, I would like to thank especially my partners on the Environment and Transport Committee. I hope that no one will be saved, although I especially thank my associates in my parts because we have worked very well together in this matter, such as so many other environmental and natural health issues. It is invaluable for the group of paintings to have a well - organized group, which is a small part of a group of predominantly European lines when it comes to caring for nature protection in Iceland. It is a great advantage for nature and environment to have such a role.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u34	A respectable president. I've given a number of talks on this matter in the council in recent years. I've been like a guide to some kind of law code on the Environment and Transport Committee. So I'm not going to have a lot of words on the subject that's being set aside for the release of 2nd. and hopefully it'll turn into law tomorrow. I have given many talks on the need for us to establish and support them over the last four years here at the council. Of course, I think it's a very positive stage we're reaching. I don't think this may be the case with all our debates about nature or environment at the council, but it's an important stage we've reached. In the terms of the law, which are laws on nature protection, of course, there is confirmation of the will of all the people here that we want to protect nature. It is our common understanding that it is necessary to do so. The decision may be primarily about how far humans want to go in that regard. After reviewing these items on the Environment Committee, it becomes clear to me that at least in the spring of 2013, it is not as far apart as men imagined. Since then, too, a lot has happened. It has come true what many have said then that time works with nature. Today, we live in the reality that between 300 to 4,400 billion dollars earns from travel services every year, and we know that about 80%, if not more, of the tourists who attend the country do so to beat the Icelandic unquenchable nature eyes. So it has a high economic value for society. But it also has value in herself as it is, anyway, in my case. It's important just in its own way. It is also important for the public in Iceland to enjoy the nature that our country offers, including a tremendous privilege. I don't think we Icelanders often realize how incredibly fortunate we are, even on the moth on the southwest corner, that being able to get into the uncontaminated nature and enjoy it and that we enjoy it there. It's incredibly precious. I'd especially like to mention two things that are important to me, but I've previously discussed them in talks at the council, i.e. that we are now taking care of the principle of the environmental court. The Commission managed to make needed changes in how that rule was to sound in the first place. It is important that we put it into the law in such a way that it will take care of the projects men want to do in Iceland's nature, and men will have to gather information, data and knowledge before making decisions. The problem is natural in that subject. We don't get along completely when it comes to road transport, and there's a change in proposal from the smaller section. What is important, and I especially want to say is that we're mixing the precautions in the article on the road around us. That's a very positive step. I'm glad you're here. It also includes what appears to be a damage to nature because there are debates about driving outside the law since 1999, there have been, in fact, two things that have been done to the law on misdirectional driving of the law since 1999. On the one hand, the fact that humans have not had an accurate definition of what is a road. The current law expects work to be done, i.e. The setting rules for completion of this definition work. Then there will be what is considered a road and what is considered an outside route. Of course, it is of utmost importance when it comes to baning outages to have the definition completely clear. Since then, the nature damage has been very vague. This is precisely defined in the 2005 external driving directive, as well as the documents that have been deemed necessary for the management of various jobs. It is very important, though not to go beyond that, to specify in particular what constitutes an extravagance of driving, what is considered a natural disaster, so that no one has to question it. There is also an adjustment in a song that is based on a bill I gave during my last term, which includes driving equipment recording if people have committed serious damage to nature, a serious offense. This is adjusted so that it does not apply to those who truly own vehicles owned by someone other than the driver. There is an important adjustment, but it is also positive that the committee holds them up. In my opinion, he has a lot of financing powers, just like a bill that carries heavy fines about throwing garbage into Iceland's natural world as a dog. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson has submitted for the council. That's a good thing, but I don't know if that's what we've been doing when it comes to driving. I'm not gonna have any more words on this matter, a respectable president. I am very happy that we are here on this job, thanking the committee repeatedly for our cooperation, hoping that it will go smoothly through the council, and that it will not be all that I expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he counts, and now I'm naturally starting to get new to this, forgives, based on a description in a committee's article of the damages of nature at some point, it is possible that road distance could occur. On the one hand with regard to the suggestion of my share: Isn't it correct for me that in Iceland's central highlands all the way off-roads have been banned, thereby preventing every round of four bikes and six bikes? Then I'd like to ask about the special surveillance that is spoken of if things are not available in some other way. Does a senator believe that this situation would occur at any time in Iceland's central highlands that we can't get anything we don't have? How have we done so for 1,100 years if this requirement applies at any time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u36	A respectable president. Hv. Of course, a senator should have sat next to me on this matter on the environment and transport committee because we agree fully on that. For 1,100 years, sheep have been just around Iceland without the use of a special vehicle. I would have been glad to take them out of the law on driving outside, so that they should be carefully kept here. However, this is the result of compromise, and it is often such a job that people have to accept that things are not exactly what they themselves want. But in answer to my question very clearly, I think farmers can subtend without using a special vehicle, but at least they've already bound in that it can't do so that they can't survive the destruction of the natural world. And it has been published accurately as to what is considered to be a global catastrophe. That is what we need to keep in mind. You can't make trails, you can't ruin plants. There must not be any visible sign of this driving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u37	A respectable president. I realize perfectly that I am coming into this matter at an unfortunate time, but I may discuss it more in a talk afterwards. I draw conclusions from the senator's response that he believes that driving a road above his head can take place under the conditions that have been placed before him and whether we look at the proposal of less or more parts. The definition of the damage to nature is so that a motor vehicle cannot be driven beyond the road without any of the events described there, as I understand. I've had 28 years of hard work in the middle of Iceland trying to herd sheep, hunt sheep, and walk for pleasure and pleasure, and I can't see how all of this is going to come together. That's good for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u38	A respectable president. There are a few things I would like to include in my talk. It is first of all that I am delighted, of course, that we now see the end of the controversy that has been laid down in this legalized legislation in 2013 and that we have delayed its executions acquitted and sacred what is left of this ideal period. It is positive that at least we come to a conclusion in the matter that may result in the rendering of the 2013 Law in the form of the changes that have been expected here and that it is a good account of those who have spoken before me. It matters. The reason why it matters is that the 1999 law that is currently in force is inadequate. I think most of the committee members, whatever the way, can agree on that. I think we can be perfectly content with the conclusions here. As noted, there are certain issues of compromise. Some things go a little shorter than we would've wanted to see and go a little shorter than the original law, i.e. From the spring of 2013 onward, but that is only better, and that is well. As part of a compromise, if you had written it yourself, you would have made this somehow different. This does not make it difficult for us to clear the situation properly and can all of us reasonably enjoy it. What matters is that we have the basis for decision-making on nature protection. Here, for example, very important points are addressed, such as the precautions and other things I consider important, as well as the outside and other items I come into on my case. You often wonder how we are working at this council when we are now able to negotiate this matter in this way because on spring days 2013, the manager of the Environment Committee, the Mörður Árnason, then a member of the Senate, made a complete effort to make peace, because it was important that we arrive at a conclusion on these matters. The people went to great lengths to compromise. The opposition to legislation and its implementation was based on the automatic opposition to all that the government did and were willing to go quite far, saying a lot without having studied the matter. So finally, when people do this now, it is of course, that there is a very good basis for discussing and legislation that we believe can last for a long time, although with the changes here being made, both of which are here to compromise politically but also because of the fact that our environment has changed very much. Then I mean it, for example, because of the tremendous growth of tourists to the country. It has a powerful influence, not only on nature but also on how we approach these matters. This will change the vision we have had over the years. It's only about the laws on nature protection. It can be said that the change or revision of these occurred every 15 to520 years. It was first approved by nature protection laws during the winter of 1955-1956. Then Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson, offered them. It lasted 15 years or until 1970 when Þ. The Gíslason proposed a bill for a new nature protection law. They lasted 28 years, and hopefully we were establishing laws that could last so long. There were new laws passed from 1999 to 2013, but their implementation of law has been suspended so that we can see laws here that are about to replace them. This shows that there is a tremendous amount of work to be done, and it has been shown in the discussion that history behind these legislation is also a long story, at least a six - year process that begins with working on a white book on nature protection in 2009. We are now seeing a conclusion. This article shows what you can do if you strive to get along. I hope we succeed in doing so in more matters because it is possible if we are willing. Just a few points. I've been through all right, but I'd like to go over a few things. It's the first rule of caution. What an interesting discussion there was in the Committee, including visitors and members of the committee, about approach when it comes to the precaution! The best way to describe it is to have two schools, one to think there should be one general rule of protection, i.e. one general rule of caution, in the laws on nature protection, which should then be covered by other legislation. However, others were saying that such a reaction would not be sufficient, so they needed to be introduced into all laws, more or less, where nature or possible changes in it are being carried out. After a large discussion in the Committee, the compromise was made in the process of expanding this order and narrowing its standards so that it would not be like a blanket over all legislation. Rather, it would be in general inculcating it into other legislation. As mentioned, for example, there is a cautionary rule in the article on road transport within the natural protection laws. Then we begin with a new set of provisions into man - made laws and organizational laws, where the rule of caution is being transmitted. I think it's very important that I think we've all agreed on this on the Committee that we wanted to have a rule of action, i.e. that we follow them in our own will that the rule of caution be respected when making decisions as to how we act or how to run the natural world. I think we're just beginning to process the precaution into Icelandic legislation. It is important that we continue to do that work even if we take the first steps here. It is my hope and our hope that this law will be in general and that it will be taken into account in nature. In this way, nature will be the product of doubt rather than of achievement. Then I have to tell you, we discussed the special protection and the C mines. In the discussions of the Committee, there was much talk about the lack of enough legal support today. It was willing to try to strengthen that foundation, and it was considered in a talk by the chairman of the committee. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir. The experience must show us how it turns out, the approach we're going to now. It is important that we carefully observe how the law is being performed at any given time. Of course, even though there is a lot of work to do behind the legislation, and that has been done for all the time that new nature protection laws have been given in this country, we should not forget that we too have been making less changes. Never do we place laws on nature protection, and then everything is broken into stone, and nothing can be changed, of course, but humans make changes in it. Now it is our share of these legislation to monitor closely how the project and processing of that work will be and not be afraid to make the changes we feel we need to make in order to make them bite properly, as discussed so much. This is generally true, not only of special protection regulations and C-minjans. I want to come in on other things, too. A figure was discussed on the definition of alien species and on whether to aim at the middle of the 18th century, as the 2013 law assumed and the bill proposed to be taken out of law. It was quite a debate, and it was interesting because it had the view that somewhere in the sand there would have to line a line as to when it could be alien and when it would not be, so that it would not be evaluable. What was convincing about using the middle of the 18th century was, especially, that shortly after 1750, the industrial revolution will begin and that the development of living things between countries and the changes we know will be great. That's why it's a good idea. The conclusion was not to have it inside, but to give a good explanation for it in a committee party. I might as well just like that. But now, we have received, and we must listen when speaking to professionals, comments on a particular aspect of the committee's view when it comes to the definition of exotic life forms. I think we should consider the information we have received on the definition of alien species and where that definition is decided, i.e. what an alien organism is. We can't leave anything like this in the air. I don't think it should delay us to look at it a bit between discussions. It was all right on the road. Those who came before the committee and are working with the laws on nature protection made note that nature damage and what it is. This is done well here, and there is a good conclusion. I'd also like to mention that there's a good thing to say that caution is being taken in because it is the way of driving outside and all the public interest discussions that so many things have changed over the short period of time since the law was adopted. We see an enormous number of tourists and people talking to the committee in the processing of this case, and they do not have a beautiful description of the company of tourists and what they see. There may be local and foreign tourists, but I'm not gonna have any idea. It has become something, so it is okay to walk around the country and leave behind some mess that people would not want to show up in their neighborhood. That's what we have to do. When we were talking about public rights three years ago or four years ago, a man did not have the enormous number of tourists in mind. It was quite another reality that then faced us. I think it's important that we try now that provisional regulations have been introduced, following its agreement here, to make the next big step of finding compromise between them, i.e. On the one hand, we can walk about our country free and try to draw close to the fact that it is actually using tourists in a certain area of the country, with the consequences. Also, the tourists come here because of this beautiful unspoilt nature, and we cannot put it in the same way in our tourism planning that it reduces the quality of gravity and the quality of the attractions here, for the first. That's why it matters. For my part, I'm telling you, I had quite a different idea about the public rights a few years ago than I did today. I think that applies to most of us. We need to get some sort of compromise between these two groups and our viewpoints, that we have major travel projects, but we think that people can walk around the country free. It is the task ahead, and it will be good and blessed, even though it will not be easy. I don't think I can repeat enough how important it is to have clear laws. I think we've brought her to a great degree, except for what I've been describing. We need to keep pushing the precautions into other laws that affect Iceland. We will also work better on the public interest and better define how we will harmonize the viewpoints mentioned earlier. Then we will also see how the experience with the regulations for this special protection and the C-minar. Finally, I'd like to mention a suggestion. paritaprevir Guðlaugur, son of Þór, the god of Þórðarson. He comes in with a set of changes that I find worthy of all attention based on a bill he and others have put on which he and others have proposed that it be forbidden to leave waste in Iceland's nature. I think this is a good suggestion. I think we're supposed to be pretty tough on that stuff because, unfortunately, it's too much of a waste disposal problem, and we can see too much of it in the open field. This is not limited to waste in the country; this is true of marine and total waste. Somehow, we have to try to get our hands on this. I'm on board because we're trying to put it into law enforcement. Sadly, though, we have not been able to discuss this route on the committee. It would have been good to be able to do so and to get the comments and opinions of others. I think it would be a good idea for the council to say this here or the committee in the leading office or we would say it to the Minister and bring it into the office for the public rights and for the tours and for the whole association, so that the case can be handled in a complete way and it can be returned to us by a special bill. I think it would be a good idea, and then we'd be watching this whole thing. I think it's a good suggestion, but you haven't quite figured out how to be monitored, etc. The practitioner is not quite clear to me. I hope the minister will take this case to his arms and continue working with it. Last night I was asked if there were all this debate over nature protection. Of course it's not like that. At least we have the foundation where we can debate how far we should go in the protection of nature. I think we've got a pretty big step forward for nature. That's fine. It matters. [[The president calls.]] If we continue to push the precautions into Icelandic legislation in general, we are working with nature and for it, and that is the very best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u39	A respectable president. I'm glad to come here and speak in a language that made sense. I'd like to start by saying it was really fun working on a environmental and transport committee, you've learned a lot. It's a very important subject and it's a pleasure to come to shape the policy of protecting one of the most important things we have, the nature of Iceland, in which everything in this country is built in one way or another. It is often said that everyone with a reasonable mind has come to a conclusion. I think that's exactly what it means here. Everyone's quite contented, I think you can say that. You may have seen a glimpse of the new politics that everyone is calling after, working together on the opposite side. I became, not much of a group of political disputes in that work, but, rather, such environmental debates, not between the party groups, but the clients and the stakeholders. It was often fun to see how it was, and perhaps many of it had not been realized that there was a person, who everyone calls each other environmentalists, although it may not have been that way, but I say this to describe how you feel about it, without any example of it. I think the basis for what we've come to terms with the law is that it's been clarified, that's not some uncertainty that can be interpreted individually. More has been done to talk things over and know what one another means and to correct matters so that they can understand what is meant and how to work with them if people are going to use nature at a certain location or how they are going to protect it. That's what it's like and what it means. I think it's very important. This may be the main concern of the precautions. It was quite clear what she was going to spin, but as she was put out, it may have been in many places, so it was not quite clear how it was to function and how to follow it. It could have cost a lot of extensions that might not have yielded to any real conclusion. Now we learned how we could make it clearer, it would work, and everyone knew how to play it. Perhaps it was what united environmentalists and developers, as we have often seen, that this was the right way. I think everyone wants to do well with nature, but they just need to know what the rules of the game are, so they can be done and they're definitely for the benefit of it. We always see more and more the value of nature and therefore I think that all will unite in protecting it. So nature was in the foreground for our work, and it was important. That was quite a tightrope dance, and he was in many areas. These include the P.R., a line dance with the property rights. Then we also come to the right to work. If the public court has become too rich, whether it is possible to be building employment rights or to limit someone's job prospects. We are going to live in this country; how far can we go in regulations and bans, so that society will develop? Even so, nature cannot get too far on this planet so that it will not be so built here. We had to have an examination of our work, and that was the basis for our decision. I named the P.R. That had a lot of things to do with it. The Universal Court is dear to all Icelanders that humans can enjoy nature and go through the land and enjoy the freedom that we have grown up in. We certainly do not want to lose that freedom. Then we may need to ask the question: Is it not reasonable to restrict this public right in order to secure it? The Universal Court was developed when the Icelanders were less than 50 of you. But the transportation system was not as well built up as it is today. Then we increased to over 330 you. and the transport system has been built and other, so that the aims of the public rights to achieve, in other ways, have been achieved. At the same time, however, the number of tourists increases considerably. It's like every day, over the population of Akureyri City in Iceland as tourists. Thus, we have come to a considerable degree to see the increase in nature we want to defend. So we need to find a solution in some way. We are also dealing with the job rights, which are the Constitution and the property rights, which are also the Constitution, but that is not exactly the public rights, not yet. We need to go on the right way to limit the suspicions that are developing in there that I say, with such a growing number of tourists, where people are building up their jobs in other countries that can often lead to natural conflict, etc. I think everyone; tourism, landowners, and the general population of the country that has grown up in the public court, there is a channel and the interstate, which, unfortunately, was decided not to do in this event. That's why I think it's important to point out the 18th floor. The law's no. 60/2013 will be returned to the same state as Article 14. The current nature protection law is, so we keep public rights or the situation totally unchanged. Public rights are not being increased or reduced by the change suggested by the Committee on page 18. Is It Designed? No. 60/2013. But we may want to point out that there is a new article, 29. Article 2, which gives the Agency a specific ruling authority. It is highly unnatural, therefore, if a ruling authority is used in any other way but has been used so far while the public court is being examined in this light. The amount of money that can be placed in daylight was highly expressed, i.e. The Agency's authority on day-care. Then I feel quite clear that there is a violation of all kinds of activities in the law, and when it's said to protect the country, we don't lose anything from nature, we're defending nature. Such a limit is controversial and controversial. It can never bring harm to up to 500 of you. K. Every day. That's the way I look at 29. ... thatshe can't be abused. In this regard, however, we took only the public court regarding tents, and the so - called kalmperum, or RVs, and tent carriages, and so on. I think it was important to establish a measure of control and order on where you want to stay and where you can stay in the wild with its contents, trash, trash, and other items without going deeper into it. This is so much so that every precaution I came in here only earlier, and it's important how it's implemented now. I think it's very important that everywhere - whether it's the sources given on road transport or just whatever projects, every one of them, landowners, or those who go through nature and use the rights they have in the public rights, the road or the construction gate or whatever - you always have the precautions behind my ear, thinking: how am I going to go through my country, how can I make sure that I protect nature as best? I don't think there's a law that's gonna get this out of the way. It's such a cultural change. All we have to do is get it into everyone's subconscious how important nature is and how sensitive it is. I believe in it, for example, in the outposting, there are many who have free access to external driving, such as police and rescue teams, and in terms of emergency treatment, I am absolutely certain that every employee there is aware of the best way to manage such outlets to minimize damage. He will. But in all cases, does he realize what it means to drive outside a normal route? Can this mean some kind of environmental damage that are not immediately visible? So I urge all who have the authority, such as in the road, to study this. We need to get it in somehow from these institutions that it is introduced and it's a little unrecognised, without any part of the law. We need to try to appeal to people's conscience and make this a little self - examination so that there is no need for a legal approach. I think this is important, because the road outside has been very busy and may be the main issue of this agreement. I can fully say that that that this law could be clearer and could be fixed because everyone agrees on the final outcome, but it only includes so many different parties, different circumstances, and have been in progress for so long. So I think it's risky to stir it now, but I'd like to say, "We'll try to do our best to make it all work out well. " I can't believe anyone's beginning to abuse his authority. I haven't seen it happen, that domestic people who have them and walk around every day about nature have been abusing their authority so far. If anyone has done so, I hope they will stop. The problem may have been that our guests here in the country, tourists, are not informed, they may have misinformed information, and so forth, that is the major project on road transport. Regarding road transport and the definition of the wild beyond the 19th count, section 5. current law, what to do, has led many to believe that freedom of movement is being restricted, but it says, without mechanical vehicles, is part of a defined desert space. That has to be clear. For something defined as a non-inhabitation, one category of peace statements is made according to Article 46. Natural protection laws, a plan is set out and set out what is left of a strong consultation process. There's one thing that's been increasing in this law, i.e. Communication process, food and other activities. This explanation of uninhabited areas is not so that motor vehicle traffic is automatically banned in some area today. First, a statement of peace has to be made through a certain process; a decision must be made whether a motor traffic will be banned. Besides, there's 41 st. Is It Designed? No. 60/2013, you can get an exception from the previously established peace description. So I think it's a very long way from compromising freedom of movement, it's gonna be a long way off, and so on, with the availability of all stakes. I think it's very important that we come out of this. There are many of these things that you need to read in the law. It's not all simple. That's quite a change, but I think we've talked about it a lot and tried to go through a lot of these things, that I think we should find a common ground in most of the rules. For alien species, the subject was much discussed. I think it's clear, however it's said in the committee opinion, that it's all right to consider whether it could be made clearer. However, the Commission concluded that experts would have to come up with a final decision as to what is an alien species and what is not, but one institution is not completely committed to it. There they saw Norwegian legislatures. I think we'll stick with that whether we change the text in the committee opinion. We simply have to look at it. There is another factor that was discussed and presented with a change in the motion, which has to do with greater fines about distributing garbage across the country. There's a natural thing that's totally fitting in with this case because we're trying to protect the country. We have the precautions and outages, and we talk about tighter rules to guide things about the tents and other things. It's all we see in nature, but it's one person who makes mistakes. We have not had room or an opportunity to discuss it much on the committee. But I think it's very important that the matter be made, and that's the point, and I suggest that it be put into place because a great deal of work will continue after this bill is approved tomorrow, hopefully, in the public rights and in the same way to monitor the introduction of precautions and more. However, regarding the precautions, its introduction, we need to say that most laws involved in nature, that the environment, has either built-in precautions, or becomes a precautionary issue. For example, the code of caution is spoken only directly of the laws on alien species that are often viewed for use in geologic areas. Then there's the law on environmental assessment. There is simply a whole set of laws on how we are handling the precaution. It tells us what must be done and what counter measures must be taken when evaluating a project. There are laws. We turn this into planning laws and edifications now, also affect building permits and implementation, so the rule of caution has, in fact, actually become fully implemented into Icelandic, I think. Of course, it is normal to observe. There could be a number of additional points to this matter, but I think I've considered the key ones and speculations that need explanation or what I've been getting the reaction to, that not everyone has quite figured it out yet. It's only natural for many to have questions and not all to ask. But I think we can all be happy and be relatively calm that there are no extremes along the way. I thank you for our pleasant work, and I hope that we will be able to land this case with good approval and that this is a work plan that we will adopt at the General Assembly. I'd like to point out that this is going to be something we new senators could call to come with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u40	A respectable president. I had proclaimed a change to the bill and had it distributed here. To be told here, I saw a game on the table coming to the bill I had prepared and introduced to the U.S.A. that those who would throw garbage in public would have to pay a fine of 100 yous. K. I'll admit that I was primarily thinking about our highlands and the neighborhood of the highways. The idea was to bring in that case as a change in the subject we're discussing here. I told you what. Called that purpose, they were hoping that this case would bring them up to some debate. Environment Committee. However, after a conversation with the committee leaders, I realize that the matter we are discussing is in a very delicate place. I've made a big effort to make peace with people, and I understand that the development of my new proposal will not help with that task and may even disturb it. That's not the plan. The plan is not to spread any conflict on this delicate matter that I hope men have come to a good conclusion that we can all agree with. I'll admit, though, that I haven't looked at it in a urchin. This case, the modification proposal, and the bill, so I'll take advantage of this opportunity, and I'll walk over it, and we'll follow the examples of the countries where a very high penalty has been set for man to throw trash on the open field with the intention of preventing it. It's gone well, as far as I know, in every place where it's done. The most famous example is probably Singapore, where there is much more than fines to throw trash, where prison punishment is found if people throw gum on the sidewalk more than once, but I was thinking more of an example in the United States. One of the most famous projects in Texas. A respectable president. I know it's not desirable for humans to speak other languages than English here, but I don't think this will be understood unless I use the original language. So I ask a respectable president to show that understanding, even if I say this in English. The master's signature is Don'tess with Texas. That means a very high guilt about throwing trash, I guess it was about 200 you. Insemination. K. last time I calculated it. But something else was done. There was a presentation for everyone to change the public view so that people would not dump garbage on a field. Let us not forget that throwing trash on a field cost a lot of money. Some are costs, for people are needed to clean up, and the cost is high, but the indirect cost is much higher. Like the highlands, we have an unscrupulous region, and it is an enormous damage to throwing away one aluminum dollar there, the sight pollution of it is very high, even though we allow the cost of picking up the cans. There's no interest in travelling in a country that's dirty. Our main export income is from the tourism services, and although it was only for that reason, we have to put these matters first, i.e. that people take care of our country and don't throw trash on the open field. I can name more territories. I've driven a lot around the United States, and last time I drove around California, I noticed that nowhere on the way I was driving, on a very nice way, saw no trash, nothing at all, but I saw a regular sign that said you had to pay a very high fine if you dared to do something like that. The question has been asked: What about surveillance? I have not seen any of these activities, any more than we see in the homes, even though domestic violence is forbidden. We are not going to lift the ban on domestic violence, even though we cannot be on house surveillance. But it's never been easier to tell about such things. A recent example of Grindavík's being thrown into the open is famous, and it became very damaging. They were to pay a fine, in fact, very low, if indicated by the media. But even if I'm ready and I'm not done fighting for this matter anymore, I don't want it to be a cause for harm to the big issue that's under here. I am completely aware of this and have a clear understanding of the need to consider the matter on different sides so that it will be the best of its produce. I'm not interested in puking. Senators in the position of having to resolve this issue because they do not fully know what it will accomplish and want to take a closer look at it. I've been discussing these issues with what? Chairman of the Environment Commission, what? paritaprevir Höskuldur Þórhallsson, who will, of course, speak for himself, but I understand him to be very positive about the matter, not at this point, for the reasons I mentioned. At the same time, I am very happy that I heard from the highest level. Environment Minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. She also has a keen interest in this matter and shows great understanding and may have more tools and tools than others to look into it and accomplish it. I hope that while I'm going to retract my proposal for the reasons I mentioned here--yes, that's what I'm going to do and for the reasons I mentioned--I trust that those who have the most on the matter to say, and that is especially my point. Minister, follow it so that we can take its stand at the council as soon as possible, because I think this is a top priority. [[Taken out to: Back?]] The sooner we give these messages, the sooner we change the law, so that we will pay high fines if we dump waste on the open field, the better. Actually, I think it's top priority, and I wouldn't have put it back except for the reasons I mentioned, i.e. That this is a big issue, and now there is no opportunity to consider the suggestion between discussions, which I was hoping otherwise could be made. I just wanted to say what. The House of Congress and that of a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u41	Iceland's Constitution is Icelandic, but the president has decided to overlook the English sledge. The senator's heartfelt request was accompanied by the senator's sincere request. The president will consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his word and for pulling back his motion. I give him my word that this fine suggestion, his proposal, will be reviewed in the Ministry and will then enter the council. I'd like to remind you that in changing proposals to the bill, it says, by permission of the President: The secretary, in consultation with the respective minister, should have a new programme on operating for tourism, in view of public rights regulations, and on the basis of nature protection and essential resource management, which the use of the transport services in nature inevitably brings. The strategy must be made to provide the bill for its subject at the latest at the Fall Summit of 2017. I'm not saying this is going to totally fall into question. Senator, they're talking about the public rights. Yet, it is the use of nature and, like a whale, as it were. Of course, a senator could fail when you see a bottle of soda or any other trash in our delicate areas, such as in the highlands. It makes you feel that the word "poolortine" is not quite genuine. That's why I say I'll make a suggestion. A member of the council immediately for a hearing in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u43	A respectable president. I'm gonna take this opportunity and thank you very much. Minister for her response to my suggestion and her initiative to get the matter involved. I've worked with the highest. A minister of things for a long time, and I know I can absolutely trust her words. I'm convinced that the case will get a good opinion within the Ministry. I'm sure there's a majority of them wanting to go that way. As soon as I thank the highest. A minister for her reaction, I use the opportunity to work quickly in this regard because of the urgency of the situation. The sooner we get it right, the better. It's like the highest. A minister named unnoring nature is not unorthodox if there is a lot of junk there. If we are unable to counteract it, we will be able to do something far - reaching that will come directly to the national economy, both financially and in other ways that will never be considered for financial gain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u44	A respectable president. There is a great deal of reconciliation at the International Parliament today and the importance of this important matter, the protection of nature. I don't find it strange if we consider today's 1111th, a famous day of peace, when World War I ended. So I think we feel some peace in our heart right now. Clearly, good relationships are of immense value in most areas. Perhaps one of the biggest environmental factors in the world is that we enjoy good relationships both in nature, as well as in many other matters. It's also talking about improving the quality of your diet, that's a big environmental issue. That is what should come about letting people understand that good association in all things is very important. The one sitting here was in Singapore, late in the summer, and I admired how everything is kept clean there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u45	A respectable president. I always obey a president. I didn't mean to return because I had nothing to say about it. I just couldn't agree more than that. Minister and think there's a perfect harmony between us in this regard. If there is a solid agreement, there is only one thing to do, that is to implement the case. It's my next job. I trust the highest. Minister to get on with it quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his motion. I think it's good and that it can become a public agreement. The problem is, we got her late. We had considered in a material way all aspects of nature's protection laws, had been carefully reviewing all of them with guests, and were just going to pad together the suggestions and the opinions. Then November 15 is coming, so it was mostly a lack of time that caused us to miss it. I welcome the Minister's declaration to want to examine this rapidly and carefully. I think it'll be a good idea for the committee, and maybe especially if it does. A senator will be able to measure his case that will be included in the committee, and this can be done quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, as well as her words. I can only hear what I'm saying. A senator supports this matter, or thought. It is true, however, that this came in late or actually did not come in according to Congress. I took it to myself to send this by e - mail to the committees and had talked to a few people. Congressmen don't have a chance to get it in unless they have a new proposal, and then they go through it. We're just at that spot today, that technically you're turning around to finish this right now. I will measure the case, and hopefully as fast as possible, so the members of the committee can get it. Then the Ministry is looking at this. I don't just hear the harmony of what's going on. Senators, I haven't heard one senator speak against this, at least. Not yet, but I also hear the harmony of the people, and that's very good for me. I'm not going to argue that I can hear the whole nation, a respectable president, but I get some messages on community media, meetings, and other places. Because of that reaction, I feel that I have a good understanding of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u48	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir I am greatly disappointed in the God - Guðlaugur Þór of Þórðarson. I wondered what has become of the fighter who in the past struggled with every language he gave. I am personally deprived of the joy that might result from finally being able to maintain a good conscience. A senator moves. It's a very good thing. I would have thought of supporting it with joy, but I do not fully understand the situation. Hv. A senator gave a very mysterious speech that said that the proposal was good, as I agree with him, that everyone was very pleased with it, but he was still going to retract it. I generally believe that the council should have great power and, if any, one. Why not use this trip to finish it? It's happened to you. A senator has discussed both with the highest. The minister and chairman of the Committee, no one contradicts this proposal, so I think so. A senator should have taken that matter to heart. I don't think it should necessarily be placed in the hands of the European Commission when there is clear support for the case. The matter is simple in itself. It is very, very much in the spirit of the pollution reform policy. A senator has not always been as happy as I was, although he certainly gained a better understanding of the environment in recent years. It has made me and many others happy. Therefore, I was moved by a certain mood. A senator made this suggestion because I saw that at last he was reaching the destination I would like him to have for the environment. I just want to say that I'm sorry about that. This is how the senator should appear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u49	A respectable president. It is not enough that it is 11.11. And that some years ago, conflicting forces in World War I ceased. Right away. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is not left with thumbs. However, not everything is right. A senator said. He has supported various subjects I have given him. For example, when we were in the government, he firmly supported it when I reduced the cost of medication. There are a number of things. A senator has done good things for me, and I am naturally completely distressed by having disappointed him. True, I don't know that I've just been interested in the environment, but I'm not going to trace that story here. On the other hand, I'm sure I haven't spoken clearly enough in my discussion. There's no way that's gonna happen. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson didn't really listen to everything I said. As I understand it, it's like this: we're in a lot of time pressure on nature protection. There has been a tremendous amount of work to work on reaching a solidarity in this regard. Few men are more ethic than a whale. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, and he knows what that means when men have agreed on delicate matters, then not much can be done. Hv. A senator knows that I am a man of peace and will do all I can to make peace. If I see a fight, of course I'll do what I can to calm them down. It's not just executives out of nowhere. The management committee also did so. Governor Katrín Júlíusdóttir over the lack of time to get reviews or attitudes from people who know best. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson both knows that even very good things have not been well thought - up and may have caused some harm to others for this reason. [[The president calls.]] Especially because I find this support, both in the middle of the night. Councilmen of the Environment Commission and the Supreme Court. Minister, I believe we'll have this case sooner than later in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u50	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator that I have often supported him, but I said that I rarely could have done so with a good conscience. But in this case, I can. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] These are simple, classlike, and relatively easy to understand. You're absolutely right. A senator, and he has nothing to do with the end of World War I, that there has been a great break in this matter. Then I think we should've used our trip, been happy. A senator and all of us by using this as a sort of top of the cake that is presented here for slices, and everyone has shared in making it. It would have been a beautiful reconciliation to settle this matter. I'm not going to go into any debate about it at any point. A senator whether he was always a man of peace. I have not always known him, or examined him under that perspective, and often I have come to know his gates, which may point to another. In case of a moment. However, a senator believes that it is particularly acceptable to fall here from the best suggestion he has made, but I do not object to him, but I express a measure of guilt over the ancient warriors, all of whom, if needed, were to get matters going. [[The president calls.]] In this case, I would have wrestled with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u51	A respectable president. I've come to feel a little guilty about having retracted that suggestion. But I think we'll, and is convinced after this discussion, I don't talk about it when I've got myself wrong. paritaprevir Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson's ass with me, that nothing will stop this from him. As soon as we get this on the program back, the General Assembly. However, no one can say that the matter was not taken into consideration because when we associates, me, and the other. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who is now with me on this journey, and it's written into the Senate News - no one can say that we're sneaking this into the 11th hour of our Common Era. We've been through this thoroughly. If anything's wrong, then what is it? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson gave much better talks on how to handle this matter than I do. I am grateful to him. I don't understand, however, why he doesn't want to know I'm a man of peace, but we'll talk about it better in the coffee shop, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u52	Mr. President. A historical milestone is reached when we anticipate the end of a bill for a change in the laws on nature protection No. 60/2013. The bill, if it is approved, will be the law on Sunday, November 15th, next. How happy we are that this matter is soon to be resolved! It's good for Icelandic politics and good for Icelandic society. The work of the Environment and Transport Committee in this complex and extensive language has been successful and this spirit has been suspended across lakes to try to reconcile on these important legislation. In fact, I wish this was the case with more differences here at the General Assembly, but I often feel that people are quick and quick to take over the differences and thus lose sight of what is important. A respectable president. The way man sees nature, not just here in Iceland, but around the world, has made huge changes. It was in 1972 that a conference on the environment's protection in Stockholm was a turning point in the environment. It was the first major international convention in this area. As a result, the UN Environment Agency, which has been responsible for international environment, was formed. In 1992, environmental breakthroughs took place. At that time, the United Nations World Conference on Environment and Development was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. At that conference about 100 national leaders and never before in history, so many leaders had attended one meeting, which tells of the importance of this matter. It was adopted by a so - called State of Rio, famous as it has become the principle of environmental principle. The concept of sustainable development was put in the approved Rio Conference, which means that man's economic and social well-being is based on environmental protection and the practical use of natural resources. In the bill we're discussing here, I'm going to briefly explain the precautions, the public rights and the outposts, as well as the peace of the well - water systems, in my speech. Precautions first. The Commission's proposal aims at two aspects. On the one hand, determine the exact time and method of caution. It is suggested that the rule of decisions made on the basis of nature protection laws and on the basis of organizational and human activities should be determined when determining measures that interfere with ecosystems and soils that have special protection. It thus points to the adjustment of the law's requirements for granting annuity from bans on driving outside the road, on the exception of the terms of the declarations of the peace and the application of the advertisements' regulations of peace and change of organizational and human activities, as stated earlier. In terms of the public court, what counts to the public court today can be classified in two. One is the public's public traffic rights for the land and the other for free travel to enjoy nature and camping in the country. Public transportation rights are largely a law on transport and transportation. The right of the public to enjoy nature has been discussed in nature since the first administration of special protection laws. The Universal Court is deeply rooted in Iceland's legislation and that the public in general has been free to go through the country for legitimate purposes, provided that nature and landowners and other rights are cared for. In recent years the number of tourists has increased dramatically in Iceland, and today the tourism has become one of the most powerful and most important roads in the nation. The number of tourists has increased dramatically. Research and research show that a greater proportion of these tourists back home are coming to enjoy the nature that Iceland has to offer, this unique nature, this vast country, etc. So this is a new reality and a change from the conditions that have existed here. Therefore, it is imperative that the country take sides on nature protection in connection with this large increase in foreign tourists and that natural protection laws provide the necessary protection in this light. From the comments given to the Commission on the bill, it is clear that this rapid increase in the number of tourists and transport growths and the threats to the natural environment are a major concern to people. The Commission thus feels that there are powerful enough tools to protect nature, so that the increased flow of tourism does not disrupt some kind of resistance within the community or the infrastructure of these places. The committee discussed quite a few of the challenges facing Icelanders. It is the opinion of the Committee that it is very important to hold this part of the public rights, which most people hold very dear and that the public has the right to go through Icelandic nature and enjoy it. At the same time, it has come to the view that this right of the public is not going to legalize spending at the expense of others. The bill suggests that there is a change in the law's article on organized group tours, that travelers can now organise groups on the basis of public rights to organise the activities of other people's country without having to contribute to the protection of its territory or to build up its borders. The sources of landowners and rights to limit such markets are narrow and only for protection, but not for the sake of limitation. Clearly, then, all the issues involved in the public court have to be handled. The Commission suggests that with the bill there is a temporary addition of regulations that require that the Environment and Resource Minister work, in accordance with the relevant minister, that the bill for new regulations that take place exactly on this point and that the bill should be submitted to a council at the latest in the fall of 2017. Another factor that we took in the careful handling of the committee is driving outside. Of course, driving that way can cause serious damage to the natural world. There must be a wide agreement in society to work on preventing such a driving. You feel that public opinion has changed very much when it comes to road transport, especially with the growing number of tourists in the country. We see that once there are times and decades of tire marks in a cultivated land that will not disappear when they are once called a global catastrophe. Finally, I want to make sure that the subject of the peaceful light of the entire water system is a subject of peace but in the 27th grade. The bill is suggested at 55 st. The law will go away in its entirety. But in 55. discusses the peace description of the well - watered water systems, as stated earlier, and as a minister, it allows peace - telling an entire water system, including aquifers and an unscrupulous water area. It is mandatory that the relevant region has not been classified into a series of protective and energy efficiency programmes, as per the protection and energy efficiency legislation. Comments on the bill show that it is reasonable to believe that the peace reports of aquaculture systems can be carried out whether they are reservations, national parks, landscapes, or protected areas with sustainable use. Twenty-fiveth. The bill is suggested to add to the new category of sites of peace-instruction, i.e. protection areas using sustainable use of natural resources. The order of the law in peace-lit areas is generally based on the classification of the International Protection Agency. It includes a peace-registered region of six categories, and the sixth category is a protection area with sustainable use of natural resources. But whole water systems are not part of the World Health Organization's classification. The Committee reviewed some comments on the removal of this article of the law, pointing out that it was very important for a minister to have this authority in which very special and valuable resources were on the land. It consists of vast, unscrupulous water systems that are unscathed and not altered by the way to the sea and thereby by the natural combination of aquatic organisms. There is reason to make entire, unscrupulous water systems high under the head of these legislations in which there is a unique resource and to have a water system in Europe now standing completely uninhabited, like the Icelandic Fountains, which are probably unique on a global scale. With the above points in mind, the Commission suggests that the change that the bill contains and the provision for the peaceful description of the ecosystems of 55rd. It's the law. Quality of life requirements have changed over the last few years. There is now a requirement for wholesome environments, secure food, access to outdoor areas, and wilder areas where more and more tourists come home and say that this is the most desirable thing they can get when they arrive in Iceland, i.e. The unmoved nature. That is exactly what it is, and especially for us who live in this country and want to give valuables to future generations, which these laws, hopefully taking effect after a few days, are very important. I welcome the proposed change as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson stated that waste disposal is forbidden in Iceland's nature. In fact, it's a new proposal that he later withdraws, and I think it's wise because it's been worked with great force on this and on finding conclusions. For me, it would have been better to call on stakeholders associated with this adjustment and to listen to reasons with and against them, and it's obvious that there is no time for that. I'm glad I'm at the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister tells us that this matter will be worked quickly so that we can get this law into the law, or whatever we do; these are important factors for waste and waste that are left in the wild, and guidelines for such association. Finally, I want to thank you very much for the work on the committee in this case, which I thought was very good. There we want to thank all members of the committee, the majority, the smaller part, the chairman of the Committee, the Committee to Rector. I have to say, with this kind of work at the General then, I look forward to bringing in more subjects of great opinion that are important to our community so that peace can be resolved. Although people often want what they can get, it's just that in a community like us, we meet halfway, and usually it's a good way to get along. Not that someone goes better along than the other one or has been able to get something off the opposing team, but that they both get along. It's the ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u53	V.E.G. President. I'd like like others who have spoken with this discussion to thank you for the cooperation of the Environment and Transport Committee in the processing of this matter, both cooperation within the committee and cooperation with others involved in this case, the Ministry, the review committee, etc. At the same time, I would like to agree with the comments of other committees who have talked to the discussion about the conclusion that the foregoing has made them happy in a matter that has been very controversial for a long time. The latter part of the last terms was one of the main conflicts during the council, between 2012 and 2013, and at the beginning of this terms, the debate would continue. I'm not going to argue that if this bill succeeds, there will be a conflict or debate of this kind. Of course, the currents will continue to exist in regard to these legislation and those related to the Icelandic and practical use of it. I think, though, that with this bill's approved bill, there will be steps to be taken and there will be a great barrier between working together to the target. Natural protection is of utmost importance from our view of the Icelanders because of the land we have been entrusted with and in many larger contexts. Natural protection laws are of utmost importance to establish principles that should be respected in dealing with nature. There are a number of factors in those who come in contact with people's everyday lives and with administrative and decision making at different levels. It is, therefore, a law that is in great distress, a real challenge, and an important role. Just as we can agree that nature's protection is a very important goal and the Lawgiver should contribute to it, laws must also be made so that it does not interfere with what we can call natural contact, natural use of nature. This, of course, is always balanced. We have the work of the Committee to find this balance, and I hope that we have achieved it in many areas. Some of these areas will require further consideration. For example, in the consideration of the committee, we take note of the issues of public rights and the balance that must be found in the future. It is assumed that the environmental minister in cooperation with the traveling minister will submit proposals at the latest in the fall of 2017 in that field so that we do not fully adapt the ideas that need to be developed there and the views that need to be taken into consideration. We have three viewpoints that need to be taken into consideration. It's the public court that's been a principle in Icelandic dishes for a long time. Then there are the interests of landowners who certainly support property rights that are important. Then comes the third item of increasing weight, we can say, in recent years, an enormous number of tourists and large levels of tourism, which, of course, change considerably when it comes to questions relating to people's free movements about the land. These are factors that we basically refer to in the future, assuming that the right to the right will basically be dominant in the field that has been established since 1999. Many may feel that questions remain uncertain, but we made the decision to refer these questions to the Ministers on the grounds that there was a special subject for this in recent years where major adjustments had been made. In order not to delay the progress of the matter, we decided to point it into this direction. This is one of the things that were disputed into leading the sentences of the law No. 60/2013 and this bill is intended to change. There were things to protect the public court. Another factor that was mainly controversial, as one knows from the discussion, was the rule of caution. This bill and the changes proposed by the committee are being made to a considerable extent. It can be reasoned that the rule is being narrowed and more clearly defined. It is also clearly written into the Law in places where it should matter most. The rule of caution will be by means of a more precise change in the areas in which it applies and needs to be applied than the set of values really narrower. There was also much discussion on driving out of the road. Other speakers have done well in overcoming this aspect. The same can be said of other changes included in the bill, e.g. those responsible for the possible protection of entire lakes. Special protection issues have been discussed. There is reason to consider that changes with law No. In some respects, 60/2013 is revised in this bill. The precaution is set in place where it should matter, i.e. in the case of the earthenware and ecosystems that are designed to provide protection, but at the same time the requirements need to be adjusted when specific projects influence natural phenomena or ecosystems. In my opinion, the result of the special protection is that the rules set out there will become more realistic and more practical in order to allow them to be carried out and cooperate with. It was, as men know, a very controversial point when law No. 60/2013 were set. We also deal with laws that affect exotic life - styles and try to approach them with a realistic approach. I think the conclusion is that the interests of those that need to be kept in that relationship, but at the same time, the rule will be carried out. Of course, when we set laws in areas like these, we need to think about the goals we will achieve but also about the rules so that they can be lived with, can be worked out, and are not so rigid and inflexible or hard to fulfill. I agree with something. The senator who spoke earlier today about the changes the committee suggests -- it is of course not as if I wrote it alone, and that is true of each of us who sit on the environment and transport committee - is a product of work which, in principle, would have gone well and yielded the results that everyone should be able to live with, and all of us should be able to work afterwards. Once there has been a difference, it has usually been solved successfully so that we can cope. It is of utmost importance, and hopefully it will be suggested that cases in this field, both in the treatment of the council and in other parts of the management system, will be increasingly resolved that people do not go down into holes when it comes to them and instead look for ways to work them in cooperation and to find those that are truly common. As noted by more speakers during this discussion, there are other factors that unite us in these matters than those that divide us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u54	V.E.G. President. Like others who have spoken here today, I want to thank for all the good cooperation and the fine work that has marked the work of the Committee on this matter, and in fact on other matters. I especially want to thank all the sources of reviews, the Ministry, the Committee writers, and the rest of our team who worked with us to reach a more successful conclusion on this complex matter, a large book that has been a subject of debate in Polish for a considerable period of time. There's been a sort of wild West Summit between government groups and members of society, lovers of nature and others even known as environmental sites, who want to use the country in another way. What I think has happened in the past two years is that because of a tremendous increase in tourism, tourism has merged many of the views of how we want to protect and use our natural world, because one cannot be excluded from the other. I think we helped a lot at work to get compromise and to settle into this category, which is fundamental legislation, as I said. The people who have spoken before me today have traced the history of the bill and the individual terms very well, so I will not repeat that list again. I think most of us agree on what the committee considers, and the whole committee is behind it. I could give a long talk about my new knowledge of precautions, which is very well understood in the Committee opinion. Or it would be possible to talk long ago about special protection and many other things; alien species, driving outside the road, and anything else that has been well traced today, but I'm not going to do it. But I just want to talk about public rights. Before I start with that, I'll mention one thing I noticed, it's my fault that it's too late to do something in it now, possibly I'll do something about it later. It has to do with a definition of the Law, which refers to gardening and, on the other hand, a land. I'm not going to have much of a case about it, but I thought it should be in the same definition. I don't have any suggestions on what to call it, but hopefully we'll have a chance to look at it later. For the public court. As mentioned in a committee program, we did not really finish that matter, for it is a task that should not be done or done in time. We did not take up the complex task of limiting the public rights that other people's private or country countries can be used to exploit the land of their own people and thus contribute to the provision of temporary regulations to be carried out by the Environment Minister and the Ministry. I'd like to mention more about the public rights. We handled a relatively recent problem, only 2014, but it did not become a real problem until the recent summer. It's about the house cars, so - called kcamera, that you can stay in. They have even laid outside the campsite in the power of public rights, using that service without paying for it. We suggest that anywhere outside the urban area be such devices as a trailer, a folding house, and a similar equipment, in organized tents, and not somewhere in the wilderness or where people might think of parking. We also add literature into the law, we increase the permissions of landowners and rural communities to limit, to some extent, access to their territory by the EEA's information for nature protection, to include places that can be dangerous to people or where people can be dangerous to nature. There, a landowner or rural society may request to the EEA that it be closed down. I think it's very important and so direct to the EEA that, when you want these closures, it's done quickly and definitely, that you will be quickly and safely applied. I would have preferred not to put more than three days or a week or something like that in it. I don't think it's very complicated to do this in a very short time without a large report or something similar. Finally, I want to name a warrant for camping in the wilderness. There we limit the records of those who have tents and travel with them for their own strength and tents in the wilderness or in uninhabited land. That's where I would've wanted to go further. I would have liked to have a tent for one night, or whatever it is, built, except by landowners' consent. Travellers need to talk to landowners about that. Outdoor groups and other members who are going to stay, individuals or groups, would need permission from landowners. I did not put up a hard fight for this suggestion, for this issue has not been discussed in society and would likely face great opposition now. But I'll mention this because I'm worried that with a tremendous rise in tourists, it'll be a sudden problem after a certain time, like with a ◯kamperana to which I used to trace. I want to force landowners to cooperate with those who want to enjoy nature. I think it's good for both of them. I think we've been doing some good laws that will make things better and that they'll explain things that have been unsure about, both for those who are going to enjoy nature and for those who want to do things. I want to thank the Committee and the discussions that have been here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-11-31.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank all those who spoke up for a good discussion. I think it was killed by all opinions or by the most of them in the discussion. I gave a talk at the beginning of this meeting, where I actually turned aside to the big issues, but of course many others also consider it. What's important to me is: Are we sending out good laws and laws? When we discuss nature protection and all that is involved in it, I think that the main thing is that the legislation provides clear guidelines on how to apply the law, how to use it, and how to explain it if there is a doubt, that no one should question what is in agreement or is in agreement. Some say that some things were settled, and they were right. Many things were resolved, but the members of the committee also agreed on a number of matters, and I would like to give them special attention. There have been tremendous hours of work, and many have come to work. I think we have completely cleared all views, i.e. In fact, if someone has felt a need for something, we have not hesitated to bring them back to the committee to discuss it. Not everyone got their way, but I'm finally saying that nature protection laws are laws that Iceland should be able to live in my opinion for a long time. We hope that they will be a wet stone when we face a new reality of increasing tourism and where more and more people are willing to protect themselves from the beautiful nature of Iceland.
