ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u1	President wants to draw attention to him. Congress officials say that there will be votes by then. 10:30 after. At the same time, the president wishes to assume that a meeting will be held until the evening, as is the agreement between council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u2	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the House of Staff of the Left Motion of the Green Mission, saying that Árnadóttir Enran Arannadóttir, why. 8th yrs Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So it is requested that Andrés Ingi Jónsson be taken to the General Assembly today, a third understudy on the list of the left movings of a green bid in the district. A guard on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a vote for Andrés Ingi Jónsson. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u3	V.E.G. President. A board of directors met this morning for a meeting and reviewed Andrés Ingi Jónsson's campaign, 3rd left lefter of the Soviet movement, a green bid in Smoke. n. No comments were made at the market letter, and a board of administration and monitoring committee recommends with unanimousness that the stock will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u4	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Andrés Ingi Jónsson has not previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, so his commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u5	Andrés Ingi Jónsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u6	To answer, Prime Minister, Industrial and Business Minister, Social and Housing Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u7	A respectable president. The General now has to treat the government's stability taxes bill and change the law of forced agreements in order to cover the solution to the problem is the swelling of the fallen banks for the payment of the nation. In their treatment, it has been found that on the part of the government, there is a stable tax that can deliver some 850 billion dollars. In a bank fund to subsidize the state's debt. On the part of the government, the high tax rate of 39% of the swellingers' property is a matter of principle and is in accordance with the needs of the population. I have to say, I'm capable of a rough fuck, considering what's suggested, agree to that diagnosis. On the other hand, when it comes to the concept of forced agreements and the contribution of the swellingers to the opposite, the so - called stabilisation process, we have the highest potential. Secretary of finance that if the swellings agree to specific stability conditions that have not been published publicly and we don't know exactly who they are, they will thereby pay to a state fund somewhere around 450 billion dollars. As a result, the differences are vast. Well, it's kind of about 400 billion dollars. Therefore, whether the swellings and demands are due to the tax as it is laid up or to whether they will contribute. That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether he is fully convinced that there is a physical basis for giving this discount to the demands and that there is no further way to go to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u8	A respectable president. It's a bit of a peculiar request, but it's not entirely surprising for people who read blogs and Facebook entries at the same time. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. But it's like whisk. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's early years were coming out of a time machine, for the man has done a great deal about the benefits of the ways discussed here and the last time I knew it would be. A senator that he and his government had made all of this up. But well, now clearly going down the path of trying to cast doubt on this whole thing. All right, then we'll take that discussion. Like what? In fact, a senator is well aware of the difference between the stability tax and the stability conditions in life that adapt to the extent of the problem, so the amount of money involved is dependent on the extent of the problem. In addition to the stability process, this direct contribution, perhaps some 500 billion dollars, is added to other joints. So I'll mention one example, there's the share of the state's share in possible increase in the value of the property of the crew, especially the three banks. So, overall, the amount discussed in the process of negotiation or the stability of the policy may be higher than the amount in the tax, if that proves to be what is needed to deal with the problem. In other words, a respectable president, the stability conditions are designed to ensure that the amount of money involved will be high enough, no matter how large the problem becomes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u9	A respectable president. Now, I'm not gonna answer the shit. Prime Minister to me or to the United States, but I'm going to reiterate my question to whether he considers this to be an adequate conclusion. The reason is that we do not know what these stability conditions are, they have not been published publicly. It has been called for, e.g. by the representatives of Indefence and I have a great sympathy for them by that point of view, that they will be published publicly, and it will in some way become clear who they are. Like what? The prime minister gives the matter up only to him and to the Ministerial Bank to determine what will be done on the part of the demands, and no one should be able to observe its contribution. That does not make sense to me. We need to know that we have walked all the way along the entire contractile created by the former government. [[The president calls.]] And it's the highest. Would a prime minister firmly believe that this was done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u10	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator may mention some space in the last government, as it were, that the last government's method was to go completely past the worn - out farms and all the tenets' demands, all these 850 billion or 1,000 billion, or whatever the amount we're talking about, was overlooked. So all talk of some leeway of the last government sounds kind of a respectable president. That is so, and it was revealed when the matter was presented in the stability conditions, about what they were about to change. It is a matter of stability and other arrangements. A senator must have known, must have studied, and must also feel that if this is designed to ensure that no matter how large a problem it will be, it will provide enough money to deal with that problem, it is no less than tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u11	Mr. President. I'm in a mandatory area, but I'm a little out of it. V.E.G. During the weekend, the prime minister reveals that he and/or the country were threatened with work as a premeditation charge. Now, it is so remarkable that at the same time, we have bills for an opinion that other efforts are made to pay the street of a demanding ship, who doesn't need much ideas to think of having stood up or stood behind these threats, can make pacts, and all evidence suggests that they choose a course that is far more beneficial than paying the tax. I think it's kind of necessary to get to the top. At least an opportunity is given to inform the Council more fully on this matter. In general, if threatened, it should be taken seriously. I'm not talking about a threat to national prime minister or country. So I'd like to ask the highest question. Prime Minister: Is or was on the road there at the highest level. Prime Minister wants to inform the General? Is there or was there something that the Senate needs to know about, or at least a financial and business committee for the sake of its work as ablation? Has the highest. Does the prime minister charge these threats, or does he intend to do so? Has the highest. The prime minister informs the police of these threats, or does he intend to do so? I find it difficult to have no information other than this vague news from the interview in DV, but for some reason the highest cause. Prime Minister to put this into the air, took the initiative. As I read the interview, he didn't have a direct question about it but shot it, so I don't think it's the least that he's doing to the General what was going on there. If that is so sensitive or so sensitive that he feels unable to reveal in public, it would be interesting to know if he is going to seek other ways, such as calling the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u12	A respectable president. I've always described a number of things in the marches, these hedge funds that are specifically involved, and the methods they use to protect their interests. I'm especially glad to hear it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is finally taking this conversation seriously. It could have done so much earlier. Bloods of various kinds have been in the air, not just in this case, but even the politicians saw to it that carrying threats to the Icesave issue, where it was claimed by some politicians and some sources that it would be harmful to Iceland in all the possible way if we did not succumb to pressure to accept the Icesave standards. Similar discussions have been tried to initiate this issue in the media and elsewhere, but we do not have in this case, as in the Icesave case, allowing it to have any effect on us, as it would be completely unacceptable for an independent nation to let such methods affect the decision - making process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u13	Mr. President. I wasn't asking about Icesave in myself, but I was the highest. Clearly, the prime minister remembers that. I did not bring this up so that prime minister could once again tell the nation that he was a hero who would not be oppressed or threatened. Of course, we all know that he has said it so often himself that it is very public. I was trying to describe to you just if anything had happened that might have been relevant to the Generals' opinion of these matters. It may be that we are dealing with bills that are used to provide the way of these parties'contracts going through which they are not to be called contracts because they are sensitive, but they are now, and they are even offering us a change in these bills to make it even more likely that the policy-making situation to the key dignitaries of the great settlements could easily go through here before the season is passed. So why not at least know if these people have recently taken care of such things? [[The president calls.]] There may be some doubt about the urgency of this contract, enough to remove this problem from the economy, and then people start looking for explanations and questions as to why it was chosen, not the tax. [[The president calls.]] I think Prime Minister has to do a little better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u14	A respectable president. Scaring's a pain in the ass. When such long - term attempts to make them suspicious of their age are hardly tolerated. A senator, like everyone else in this hall, rejoiced a few weeks ago but now he sees a likely opportunity to create a suspicion over this matter as well as everything else. Hv. A senator doesn't have to say that I'm a hero or that I've done anything else. If I was going to learn such things from someone, I would look to see why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon in the last term. There was no lack of self - worth. However, for the results discussed here, there is nothing wrong with talking about negotiations. One of these routes is a means of negotiation, the way of forced agreement, but the State is not going directly to those treaties. That's what I'm talking about. A senator knowing each other. But these contracts meet the conditions established by the government, one-sided conditions, inconsistencies, allow recovery to be allowed only if the conditions are met, the conditions to ensure the security of economic stability in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to ask about the eco-friendly testimony of food. I wrote a letter asking, I think two months ago, I forgot, but it came back to me when I was preparing for it, because I haven't come up with an answer to it yet. There were two simple questions, and I want the inquiry to continue, even though I have the opportunity to talk to a minister about these matters. The fact is that the eco-efficiency of food is misleading to consumers. I recall that it was in 2004 or 2005 that the consumers organization sent a message to the local Contestant Institute because they thought it was misleading to consumers and should not really be allowed to mark products in this way. I think I dismissed the case. It really didn't happen any more than it was now, ten years later, I think everyone has come to believe that this is not going to be easy. I know that the Ministers appointed a group of personnel on the matter last year, who concluded, and as far as I know, the group suggests that a Regulation such as this eco-efficiency is based on the price being dropped, that men should quit and if they wish to have some kind of eco-friendly testimony, it will be done in a different way, even if the producers come together. There is no surveillance of this eco-friendly testimony today. Every time I go to the store, I see Icelandic agricultural products marked by eco-efficiency and I'm useful in avoiding them products because I have no assurance that I will pay higher prices for better products, products based on better management of animals or environmental issues, or whatever this is supposed to be. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of how things are now, whether or not the Regulation has been canceled or what you call them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u16	A respectable president. It is proper to discuss this matter of eco-friendly validation or regulations set up in the past century, as it has been observed. The head starter, certainly old, and in observation over a year ago, found that none of the Rapporteurs who were supposed to monitor were actually doing it enough. At that time, the parties who have used this and considered whether it would be unnecessary to have a public law on something that at the time was put forward to show and witnesses that the production of eco-friendly agricultural products would be something more and more than industrial production from other countries - which it truly is. I think there was a place in the community that people know of. We have now established animal travel legislation and have been working on regulations that have been set up on all species of livestock and animal species, where, of course, we take the step further and may have the situation where regulations here are the most difficult things we know in the Western world, much less so. Of course, we continue in the process that Icelandic agricultural products and the products we are doing meet all the standards originally set in eco-efficiency. On the other hand, there has been working with those members who might want to continue to, this witness, and that is correct. foreboding that it was only natural for them to become their stakeholders. [[The president calls.]] The work is not finished, and that is why we have not finished the Regulation yet, but it will probably be the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u17	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Well, then I get it, so there's some kind of intervening situation right now. The protocol is in effect, however, there is no monitoring that eco-friendly validates something and that follow the Regulation, there may be some groups of manufacturers who want to continue the signal, but then by making themselves an improvement in this and probable any monitoring regardless of the third party, if I understand correctly. Then today's situation shows that the goods in the store are marked as eco-friendly, and I wonder if they are acceptable, because there is really nothing behind them. Can a minister come up here and assure me and other consumers that if products are marked as eco-friendly, by eco-efficiency, do I get more money than if I buy a standard agricultural product?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u18	A respectable president. It is really unchanged, as it was defined at the time. What I said in my first talk was that the Icelandic agricultural product meets the requirements. However, it is not acceptable that some public witness is not under official supervision and that it is being performed. I don't think it's unlikely that the official testimony will be canceled, but the people could still use this product label as long as they meet certain conditions and are better than anyone else in the market. That work is simply being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u19	A respectable president. I wanted this Monday morning to come in to the highest. Ministers of health after health care matters that all of us have been deeply concerned about during our recent losses. Even though a vote for a nurse has not yet been completed, the agreements have been made with her. I wanted in the highest. Whether the collective agreement led some nurses to retract their resignations or to add details, depending on the extent of the narratives being made. In addition, the current medical standards of the system will be carried out on and on the highest plans. A minister has taken steps to deal with the situation that may then arise. Likewise, whether a minister has evaluated it or in some way checked where our good workers are looking, whether or not they are looking for employment in other countries, whether they are looking for better paid jobs in personal service or looking out of their professions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u20	A respectable president. What lies ahead for nurses is simply the situation we have received in the media, the increase in the reports after the legalization, and now a few more reports have been drawn in. I don't have the exact number of this today, but it's about 200 nurses' exposés. We have naturally considered this matter in the Ministry with the National Hospital at a meeting, and I have also made this especially known to the director of the Land Hospital, who carries the most burden on this, although we have reports in more medical institutions than only in the Land Hospital. As noted in the media on how the governor of the Land Hospital reacts, he assesses the situation to the point that there is no reason to view this as any need, he does not have reason to prepare a specific strategy until the hospital can better see what real narratives will be, i.e. How many of these resignations go by. At this stage, it is impossible in some ways that the director should evaluate how many data will become reality or how many data will be retracted. The schedule for my response or the Ministry is based on the assessment of the medical institutions and especially the Hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u21	A respectable president. The conclusion now lies in the agreements with nurses, although the vote remains, so that nurses can be aware of the benefits they can expect on the basis of their contracts if they agreed and the results of the procedure would never be reduced. If that has not led to a retraction, then it is not inevitable to conclude, at the highest. Health Minister, that the agreement made by the state would not make the Icelandic medical system a place of demand for these our professionals to a sufficient degree to maintain a first-class health service in the country, and even if the agreement would be approved, we would lose too much qualified staff from a nursing profession because the terms will not be good enough to keep the deal in reality? Then I must ask the highest. A health minister whether there is any promise to do better or how to understand books in the agreements that give some kind of basis for such things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u22	A respectable president. Right away. A senator asks if the government's contract is not good enough, so I have to reduce the intensity. The senator says there are two parties in this contract, i.e. The peace of the Icelandic nurses and the state. It's a deal between two contracts. There is now a contract to be made for a presentation by the Icelandic nurses, and they are offering a presentation to their members. I don't think it's necessary to roll out of position before trying to handle this deal. It is quite clear that he does not reach the highest expectations of nurses, it is clear from the response we have received in public with this contract. Nevertheless, this is the conclusion that was reached at this meeting, and if it does not work out, then the situation must be reviewed and assessed in due time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u23	Mr. President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. Agricultural minister. As we know, laws were passed on to union strikes within the BHM, and thus veterinarians fall. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister on the situation of farmers, i.e. Manufacturers, and relief centres after this long strike that began on April 20 of the past and whether or not veterinary surgeons have quit their jobs following the law of strikes and whether there is a risk that veterinarians might be considering the possibility of going to other countries, such as Norway, to look for better jobs. This may be the case, after the Supreme Court has ordered three men in a court and a court of law the salary paid by veterinarians or what elevations are being paid by veterinary surgeons. They may think they're on hand until it turns out. But I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister if there is any safety or emergency plan in case of veterinary resignation, or if they are about to become reality today. And what is the situation in this article after the long strike that has occurred in the animal doctors of the state, the surveillance clinics, and the regional animal doctors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u24	A respectable president. After a nine, ten - week strike, it is of course clear that the farmers, those who did not get their cattle into slaughter and therefore unable to maintain normal management, are very difficult, especially for chicken and pig farms, but also for cattle farms as we know and had become lacking in such products at camp. Of course, after the strike, the farmers find it difficult, since their income flow was not for more than two months. So I guess that situation is difficult, and if it continues, it will be quite difficult for many to get out of it all. However, after the strike process was passed, all operations started and imports have returned to normal, and I know no better than the success of the slaughter, the waiting list is probably after the loss of the strike and the toughness of the situation in many parts of the world. I do not know that any veterinary surgeons have quit without any further information on this and have not sought it. It has been difficult for humans to visit the country for a very long time, probably some decades, and it will definitely remain here as yet and not merely because of the individual ideals but simply because they are looking for a particular situation that they may not foresee as a monotonous person somewhere where there is a limit to getting their professional vows, newly graduated, fulfilled. And that's not new.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd also like to direct him to a question about the vast financial cost that has been wide and wide around the country, in many territories, and has caused great damage and is still unexplainable reasons. Has the highest. A minister has some observation or assessment of what is going on there, and what status of farmers is there about this tremendous quantity of product food, which, of course, can lead to a huge loss of income for farmers in many parts of the country? Will farmers themselves have to suffer harm, or will material riches come there? Has the highest. A minister examines the possibility that governments will come there to undo the harm done to farmers?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u26	A respectable president. A food - care agency has sent out a questionnaire to explore the magnitude of the cost of a few weeks ago, and people were deeply concerned that there was much greater magnitude than the results of the questionnaires. Yet, it is considerable in individual areas and towns. If I recall correctly, it was about 14% in those towns where it was the highest but much smaller and perhaps the total of 2◯3%. During a normal year's trip, some falls on the spring are always at sheep's birth, but this spring was a more vision, probably due to various factors. For repairing damages, this situation has not been completely solved and has not been fully investigated so that it can be explained here in the government of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u27	V.E.G. President. Here is a request for a report from members of all categories and districts. The request is for a state port in Iceland. Today, there are a number of requirements for maintenance and partial or full use as a result of lack of maintenance. Others are limited in use with the associated risk of accidents. As a result, a decision has to be made whether to reject or remove these ports. There's limited funds on the transport program, and I think this report could be very useful to the development of a 12-year plan, which we hopefully get at the next council, and I think it can be extremely useful to them and encourage Congress to agree with this request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u28	Mr. President. Here in itself is an excellent case that is about to become reality in changing the order of the district attorney, which includes dealing with a special prosecutor who was to be laid down in two days; there was a need to be changed because there have been things that were going a little slower in this regard. Since I'd like to sign the committee's opinion in advance, I wanted to explain to him, and that is because it is considered that there is a lack of funding around 325 million. K. so that the change can become reality, and this additional amount of money is not expected to function. As we know, there is a special prosecutor with far too many cases and speech not enough as it is today, and much less when other matters are added, despite the fact that his funds are being moved over. [[The president calls.]] So we'll have left green sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u29	Mr. President. Final budget of 2013 is a testimony to the turning point in postwar financial affairs. In 2009, a government fund in minus 151 billion lay. By the end of 2009, but by the end of 2013, there were only 700 million in the minus. One of the main tasks of the left government was to stop the debt collection and to succeed, but it was, of course, successful with the help of government officials who were able to maintain Kingdom service and with the people in the country. It is to be celebrated, the 2013 finale of budgets, to bear that witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Odddu G. Oddný Harðardóttir for this compliment on the government now ruling the country. We all know this, and it has been reviewed that the first act of a new government was to cut down the foam election that the previous government had proposed for the 2013 elections. It is a joy to see that this committee wrote a whole legal committee in support of this matter. Last year, at the time of the completion of the final budget of 2012, the government did not trust to be in the case and vote with it, perhaps referring to the testimony of the former government and the religion they had in their own financial laws. On April 27, 2015, there is one flaw in this case, and the situation has been such since it could not be taken to 2rd. and payment earlier than today, but I hope this week will be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u31	Mr. President. It's interesting to hear what you're talking about. The chairman of the budget board talks here. I don't remember cutting down about 16 to 20 billion here in the late 2013's. When I'm at the highest. The current government took over was predicting the survival of the minus 16 billion because of the former government. It was just underestimated, and we returned a much better place than the present government thought it was taking over. It's a good thing to keep it in place, for example, in the Market Points of Arion Bank and in the state financial program at this time. Secretary of finance. As we look past irregular teams, the contribution of the Kingdom Fund is positive in 2013 about 9 billion and is improving by 20 billion from year to year. In addition, the significant results achieved over the last five years with a steady improvement of over 120 million more than in 2009. It is important to keep it in place that it did not cut down about tens of billions of dollars. It was a bank tax that came in and improved the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u32	Mr. President. I just wanted to be aware of the warnings we minors have in the General Education and Education Committee, and thus, as follows, that it is more appropriate to use the word "Barna House" or other special dwellings to provide a legal home to strengthen its function. There is real need for help when interrogating children after some sort of abuse, better facilities in many parts of the country, and so it is directed here to the State Department to examine these issues, whether they can be corrected. It is also a great challenge when young children are to be taken to Reykjavík in a special children's house, so it would be preferable to make a better house out of the country. We want to try to strengthen the support of a children's house by using this letter with a large stick, not merely that children can be interrogated anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013. This changes means that the Act of Justice will be suspended until January 1st, 2016, and the law is therefore assumed to be No. 44/1999, on nature protection, maintain values for the same time. With an approved law No. 23/2014, change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, the Act was suspended until July 1st, 2015. As a result, work at the Environment and Resource Ministry began to review certain aspects of nature protection laws taking into account the European Commission's Environment and Transport Committee from February 19, 2014. The committee agreed to emphasize certain laws of the law and at the same time ensures the agreement between laws. In the final position of the committee's opinion, the Commission suggested that the work should be based on an existing job, the overall concept of the law, and the view that efforts are made to make peace with the final outcome. In accordance with the findings of the committee, special precautions, public rights, alien species and road transport were considered. The Ministry had extensive consultations with institutions, professionals and transport committees with that review. To work with the Ministry, the Ministry set up a special consultation group of different parties to provide advice. In addition, the Ministry has been aided by Professor Aðalheiður's Jóhannesdóttir, a professor of environmental and resource rights, in the review of the law. The Ministry has cooperated greatly with the committee and went to four meetings to inform the authorities of the progress and to hear the views of the committees. As the bill of a change in nature protection law was published on the Ministry's Web on March 10 of the past and was written at the bill until March 20. After a review procedure, a subtraction to the bill was removed. In view of the short time it was then until the end of the spring council for such a significant bill, it was thought that there would be insufficient time to settle it before the end of the council to ensure that the matter would receive careful and thorough management. Natural protection laws are fundamental laws in the field of the environment and are important for the bill to get good publicity at the General Assembly to make the most of the agreement. So the bill on delaying the implementation of laws on nature protection is presented by the implementation of the nature protection law No. 60/2013 will be suspended until January 1st, 2016. That's the law bill, but I'd like to state that we're talking about the members of the committee at noon. The Environment Committee has been said to speed up the implementation to March 1 so that the debate on nature protection will not land in the December morning. But since then, I've planned to put in a bill to law about the change in nature protection next fall with a validation of January 1, 2016, and I refer to what I said earlier. The Environmental and Transport Committee will have set up a bill to consider in the summer. I've traced this bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Refer to cover two. ... andwhat. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. There were some details in her words, and that is why I would like to receive a more detailed description of her vision on the approaching timeline according to the bill. The 2013 Act of the Law is expected to be postponed to January 1 January 2016, but according to the findings and agreement on the end of Congress, we expect the period to be delayed to November 15th, 2015, as I understand an agreement on the end of Congress. This was not made clear in the case of the Minister, so I wish she would have it brought upon her. Then the Minister is expected to bring up a new bill on nature protection in the early fall days, and the committees would have time to settle the matter in their own due course, thus implementing its payment at the General Assembly. I would like to ask the minister to correct his understanding of the coming time line so that it is quite ready for us to be on the same page regarding the time ahead and the execution. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers also on the financial and economic costs, not to assume the expenditures of the law's taking place in the budgets of 2015, nor in the long-term federal programme. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister of whether it was a time or a time to postpone the execution, as it seems not to be expected, either soon or in length, that the increase in budget will be set aside for new laws on nature protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u35	A respectable president. I thank the senator for these questions and tips. If something is vague, you might try to explain it. This is a treatment, and I recommend a bill to be applied. 1313, 751st. How Would You Answer? ... withauthority of the President's permission: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. A sentence. 1.mg. 94 st. The law says, "This law will come true for January 1st, 2016." In my history, I was able to find out that with a discussion with the Committee on Environment and Transport, it was established that it was normal, and probably trying to speed up the recording. I mentioned the date on December 1, but for the duration, I think the committee would be able to review it, and if it is further agreed on November 15, I believe that it is primarily the Commission to state this and all that is good if it succeeds to win, so that the validation can take place on November 15th. There is nothing else to be done if the committee reaches that conclusion. Nobody's more willing to do that than me. I mentioned December 1 so that we had a bit more stretchy, but we didn't even fit in with the December, as I would let me mention it. I think the cost estimates are like those of other bills, that they want to have more lines on the bill that are supposed to cost you before they do. It will be done naturally with this bill, like all others, when it becomes clear what changes have been made or what the new bill looks like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u36	A respectable president. These dates are not floating, they are part of the treaty on the end of the council. The secretary is expected to have an agreement like the rest of us. When this has been discussed at the meeting of the council classes, now last night, when all members of the House wrote their letters at the date of November 15, it was likely of some significance. I take it very seriously when it's the highest. A minister now speaks of some stretchy, flexibleness, and December 1st, which would have been quite possible but would not have been the case. December 1 was not concluded, the result was November 15th. It is of great importance that the minister is completely on the same page as we do that when the bill recommended here is prepared from the council at the end of the summer 2015, changes in proposals will be agreed according to the agreement of all members of Congress, saying that the time will be on November 15, 2015. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, I think there's a reason why we're going over that matter again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u37	A respectable president. The last of all, I want to create a disturbance again. I thought we had an excellent conversation last week on this subject, and I appreciate it. I said if the committee thought November 15 was going to work out the reviews and other jobs that need to be done with a new bill, I'm 100% with that date.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u38	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Environment minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir for her story. In short, to trace the process that took place on the environment and transport committee, the Commission decided to give themselves a good time when she received the discussion. In months we called for all those who had a certain view of this and who were not divorced. A great deal of agreement followed between government and government. I'm going to have to tell you one special senator, okay? paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who was willing to take this matter into the way of reconciliation. The case has been accepted. I particularly thank the Ministry for working very carefully, calling for reviews, and trying to get everyone to the table to work well on this case. In my mind, the key point is that we accept natural protection laws that are acceptable in society that are well-valided and the general Assembly of the Icelanders. It grieves me, I must admit, to what. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir is so important that the law takes effect on November 15th. This will limit the work of the Committee. That will put us in a very narrow frame of time. I'm sorry, but I have a feeling she wants this group in a conflict situation. Hv. paritaprevir A former senator, Árnason's mother, managed it well before elections, and won a major relief on a rather damaged bill. It seems to me that we're going to see the country, but I'm asking for a good time to finish this case on an environmental and transport committee like we had when we discussed it last year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u39	A respectable president. I thank the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee for his word. Since we're being asked to be here very clearly, it is quite true that I mentioned to the Prosecutor that this date would have been discussed as well as to others, so I think I'll say it here for the third time, regarding the work of the Committee. I didn't want to make a complete contribution to the Committee, but I pray. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee to respect the agreement discussed with other members of the Committee last week and to try to speed up the work on the autumn days that this case can be handled on November 15th. To improve this, the bill will be handed over to the Commission for the very first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u40	A respectable president. Keeping the matter in its place has been a common understanding for all members of the committee. I thanked the Ministry earlier for a very professional and careful job. We had an agreement to postpone this case, that was a clear agreement. I thought it strange, then, that the government would take this case and want to discuss it in a contract that was about to delay the execution. What I'm just pointing at the highest. A minister of the Church and other members of Congress is that the most important of all must be to continue working professionally to make good nature protection laws, to make peace with the five elements that remain off the table. I understand that differences have declined significantly, and I think that's good, but I'm not sure it's a good thing to keep it within a special time frame. I think that'll hurt the case. [[The president calls.]] I hope the committee will get the space she needs to complete this very important matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u41	A respectable president. Indeed, I agree with the senator's words that it is important to be careful. This is basic environmental legislation. We certainly want to be careful. We also want to try to achieve the most extensive peace. That's how we've worked all over it. years. This was referred to by the Committee to help work with it as a guide. As I mentioned in my background, the Ministry has been very cooperative with the committee and has attended four meetings to inform her of the course of events and to hear a point of view. I'm told at the Ministry that they won't remember their work so closely with a committee in progress. I cannot help but repeat that I think it is very important to try to achieve the peace that wants to go to November 15th.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u42	V.E.G. President. I give a sound in an antiquated voice to thank the highest. Minister for the cooperation the Minister and the Ministry has had with the Committee on this matter. It is a fundamental law, as the minister went over, and it is of utmost importance that there is good solidarity at all sides of society on that fundamental law. I agree only with the date, and I'll agree with the minister that the value of January 1 is unfortunate because this might land in the December 2000 and is therefore more likely to be the date cut short than the above, but I also like it on November 15th. V.E.G. President. I don't want to upset you with my next words, but I feel that at the highest rate, if it's decided at the council meetings how to change the proposals of the committee -- I assume it's an agreement, but it's still unusual that a change in proposal comes from the Committee and I don't think it should be about time, it's about the process and the subject, what's really happening from this work. [[Up front.]] But that is what I think November 15 is time enough for the committee. We're very good in this category, all members of the committee. There are less than two months that we'll get if the case comes in within the first few days, and there's not much difference between the committees, I think that this time, November 15, is cool. But I still don't have a direct question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u43	A respectable president. There's a certain situation I'm in, how to tell about this, there seems to be a greater convergence between me and a management committee on the matter than with my fine team because of what is normal at the end of the council, that men sit down and try to discuss it, and that's a lot of the good. I'd like to thank the members of the Committee for a fine conversation we had last week, and there it was a clear wish that it would be better to speed up the vote earlier into the autumn. I understand that at some point in my speech, I have maligned myself and used March months, but that was a mistake. The month of Mars is an excellent month, but I was going to speed it up and not delay it, so that it is delivered. I did not realize that I made this mistake, but all of us ask to agree to try to work so that we can make it by November 15th. The bill will arrive at the Committee's office immediately in August, so before the council starts, the Committee may have already received the bill for discussion and inspection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Environment and resource minister for correcting this. I believe this change, which we're going to make from year to year so that it won't land in the mall that could be what it is now, i.e. that we were going to finish this by November 15th, and put them under pressure on the committee, is positive. I look forward to the work that the Committee receives in the field. Two months, as I told you earlier, there is a tremendous time for the committee to finish the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u45	A respectable president. I thank the senator's words, and I believe we all agree, as we have recently worked, that we would like to be careful with this act of nature protection. I thank all the environmental and transport committees for the work for the past two years because the Committee has actually been working ever since the start of a new election period, but changes have been particularly under way this winter. I want to thank you for the good words that have fallen here, and I hope the Committee succeeds with the Ministry to provide careful laws on nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u46	A respectable president. We'll discuss the second delay of the Fragile Party's Minister on the Nature Protection Act. It has to be said that in over half of the terms of the budgetary protection in the government, there has been nothing missing in these matters but to try first to cancel the law and then to postpone it, first of the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and now the highest. the current Environment and Resource Minister. I'd like to ask a secretary about the priorities of the ministry because I don't expect anything but the staff of the Ministry to have done everything here as well as they can. It was granted 15 months to review the law in March 2014. A year later, a bill was finally presented to the Ministry's homepage. Does a minister believe that it takes a year for the Ministry of Nature to suggest a change in the existing law to make anything clear and simple a suggestion? Then I'd like to mention it as a boy. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir pointed out the review of the financial and economic services I loved most of all. Minister not responding well enough. It states the following, by permission of the president: The expenditures of the law's legal office in 2015 or the long-term financial programme have not been expected. To this end, I see that the law mentioned here was to postpone a draft, a law to take effect for a year, and that would apply half this year has not been a budget or a long-term budget in government matters. At one time, the government and the highest. Ministers that this law would take effect in the current year or was originally required that these 15 months be mainly used to stretch the lopinum and then be asked for another postponement? Furthermore: Can be the highest. Minister tell us how far the sun has come today? Where does this document stand today at the Ministry? May we expect that during the first few days of the fall week, this bill will be ready for contributions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the queries, it was good to have them. Indeed, this case has been the priority both for the former environmental minister, for the current Environment Minister, for the Environment and Resource Ministry. I've said it several times in the symposium that I think the Ministry worked particularly well on this bill in the winter. It has tried to stretch and pull to make peace, which we have called. When it comes to making peace with many people, there is a need to be careful and careful, and that has been the case. It may take time, and there is no more dissatisfaction than the one mentioned here who could not contribute the bill to this spring assembly. We sent the bill out for review in March, and in fact, we had a rather short notice to try to get the bill into Congress. When we were reviewing what we received from sources, it turned out that the deadline was over. We didn't get the bill before April 1. Then I thought it would be better to bring a postponement bill to avoid allowing a lack of time to block a good discussion here at the General Assembly. The priority is 100%. We want this work to be the best, we want it careful, and that's why we want it in the Council when we have a good time to discuss it from all our viewpoints so that we can find out. So I don't want it to look like it's not working very well on this bill, so it's not. Regarding the budget, it is difficult to tell exactly that. It's sometimes a little difficult to deal with such expensive food, but I think people have been waiting to get a final bill in their hands to cost it the right price. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u48	A respectable president. It's good to hear that the matter was first in the Ministry, both in the past. the current minister and former, but I don't bid to see things that were not priority in relation to the time it took. Looks like the highest. Ministers haven't answered the second question, as I suggested. I understand the statement of the Ministry of finance so that the law on nature protection No. 60/2013, the law to be delayed, has never been entered into a financial programme. Is that correct, and if so, why not? Was this never meant to be a law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u49	A respectable president. Indeed, we have wanted to create a new bill. It's been clear from the first few days after the election. I'm not going to go back to that. I think the entire U.S. Senate knows what's going on here. A former environmental minister made a suggestion for a completely new bill regarding nature protection. Then the conclusion was reached that the bill was revised, and the revision has been under way. I don't quite have the basis to answer a 100% question. A senator's opinion of the evaluation of the budget. As I understand it, the bill that now looks light on autumn days has been waiting to cost it. Humans have not wanted to do so until they had exactly that reimbursement in their hands. I can't answer any clearer, but I've been trying to repeat here, have no grounds for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u50	A respectable president. I would have expected the highest. A minister would have as a representative of this case grounds to comment on the accompanying documents on the matter, especially when discussing the financial and economic authorities' comments. It's the highest. Ministers are not clear whether environmental protection laws were expected in last year's budget, although there was certainly another of the highest levels. Minister for the office of environmental and resource ministers then? Would it not be proper for a minister to study before we decide whether the laws on nature protection were, in fact, never intended to be valid this year, as this statement by the Ministry of Economics and Economics suggests?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u51	A respectable president. During my last term, I was sitting on an environmental and transport committee, as in this terms, and came to work on nature protection laws, No. 60/2013, which is now being suggested a second delay for validation. The final lead of the law, as stated in the spring of 2013, was made of an agreement between the government and the government's standing of the case, which included the continuation of the next election period, and we are still in that situation, on that choice. In fact, I was very upset about man's going that way myself. There were other changes that I was not at the same time, one of the members of the Parliament, as one of the members of the council shows if there were votes in this matter. Track No. 60/2013 were extremely important. These included the application of the principle of the environmental rights, the so - called precautions that nature should enjoy the doubt when making decisions that could have a negative impact on nature. This is a vast-piercing code of law that states the import of alien species, land use, the public rights, the ancient right to free the country, so it is of great importance how these games are maintained. Our last spring team was decided to make an excellent choice within the environment and transport committee to postpone the implementation of the law, which was due to take effect in the spring, as it is now. In fact, it is unchanged that these laws will go into effect on July 1 if the continuation bill that we are considering now cannot be fulfilled. The agreement, or agreement, made between human governments, governments, and governments, is that the government's right to discuss the matter, of course, the law of No. 60/2013, last year's postponement of the law, and the continuation of the law this year. I would assume that such a discussion would take a long time for it to be under natural merits. In order for men to be willing to give away the right they are elected to serve here and have in a Senate hall, to give up representatives of viewpoints on whose side they were elected here, something needs to be replaced. Therefore, there is an agreement that does not involve this time more than the fact that the delay will go no further than November 15 of the second. Why is this so? Yes, because in this agreement, members of the council heads know exactly what to do with their peace will hear when it comes to December, November, and what status we are in, unfortunately, are repeated in the council when issues are resolved. This would therefore not be for the better, for we know how things develop and tend to breed in the council, to try to complete the Christmases that are formed at the end of the year. Therefore, two members of the Parliament, including some of them, have been appointed by members of the council. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, former environmental minister, and the one standing here, stressed that the case will be avoided. True, it gives us very little time, that's right, in the fallfloor. This requires that ministers keep in mind that in the first days of the fall council, the matter must be submitted, i.e. new nature protection laws or changes to law No. 60/2013. Then there will be a review period, then the arrival of a committee, and it will probably be settled in the way the law would otherwise take effect on November 15. That's how time pressure is prepared, and I think she's very positive in this regard. It does not have much to do with material things. The changes the Ministry has made to the law include the important principle of caution in dealing with nature. It is unfortunate, in some respects, that I have been involved in the work of a possible change in the constitution, has been considered to put the precautions into the environmental and natural protection section of the Constitution and, of course, the precautionary principle of the specialists, nature law to reflect the Article of the constitution and would be dependent if it entered much shorter than this principle if it was put into a constitution. There is something to be especially concerned about. The Universal Court is also a subject to which we need to reach a common conclusion. I don't think he has a party disagreement. I think there's a point of view where we need to explain. In my mind it is important that large and increasing numbers of tourists and the lures of uncontaminated and clean nature do not cause this right of Iceland to become a problem because more tourists are going through the country than often before. Of course, the right of landowners must be protected to plan and use their own land. There's a mix between these things that needs to be considered. It should be noted that the chapter on special protection, and these three key points are in my mind key elements for the execution of this issue in the fall. I think we'll have plenty of time to do that. At the end of my speech, I want to review what has been spoken in the highest court. Minister and chairman of the Environment Commission on the great and good cooperation between the Ministry and the Committee. I don't agree that it was a lot and that it was good. It was a fine thing for the last spring when we finished the continuation of the Environment Committee because it was on the basis of an agreement and a total. In winter, there have been four meetings between the Environment Committee and the Ministry. At least two of them were publicity meetings from the Ministry, the two later possibly some form of conversation between them, and we have had some problems. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir found two times with the highest. Environment Minister on the subject of this case, mainly in order to reach a conclusion on validation or postponement of the time. When an agreement was made on the Committee with the then Environment Minister last spring for the continuation of the law, this meant that the Commission would be shown the order of Congress in the fall of 2014. It wasn't done. Instead, the commission came up to the ear that a statement had been published on the Ministry's Web, which requested a statement. It is in itself a positive work assignment on behalf of the Ministry to perform the case in this way, but it was not in accordance with the agreement made with the committee, we became deeply exposed to the committee, creating a measure of suspicion and distrust between the members of the committee and the Ministry of that topic. That was unfortunate. And besides, there's so much to it. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, president of the Environment and Transport Committee, failed this spring to achieve the same agreement with the committee as he did in the last winter. There are a number of but tremendous emphasis on matters that could be seen from the beginning that would never be fulfilled here at the council, such as the application of organizational authority over the airport in Reykjavík, from the local community to the World Council, caused great time to fall into the heart of the committee, and, unfortunately, there was little reconciliation within the committee. In addition, it has been extremely difficult for members of the Parliament to win their course of action within the committee because of this emphasis. It's my wish that we can work a little bit better inside the Committee because I know what it is. A senator is concerned about the reconciliation, but the reconciliation, of course, cannot be on the basis of a number of meetings. It is given by people who listen to one another. It is obtained by the fact that people are willing to yield, as it were, to the highest degree. The minister of the environment has made a decision in this matter, and it was shown in her background and answers or comments earlier, of course, that one should agree and agree by both giving in a little. Here, protesters have given their right to hold many and detailed talks on basic laws in the land that involve not only the interests of our generation but also the interests of our future generation, matters that will affect how our work will be examined in the future and our decisions. It's not some little thing to give it along and I'll hold it. Councilmen, and especially aggressor. Councilmen, to recognize this, and to take it into account. I hear that the members of the board of directors of the environment and transport committee, members of Parliaments such as representative. paritaprevir Einarsson, is content with the conclusion that the postponement reaches only November 15? I know why. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Egilsdóttir, chairman of the Annexe Party, has made an agreement with his letters, and that is quite enough for me. It was also clear before then. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's palace is not comfortable with his decision. He will protest that decision and try to influence the outcome. But words shall stand. A meeting has been achieved, and if there is a conflict with that agreement, they must apply it to their own council and their own. The Parliamentary formula and its decision before making agreements and agreements that have been upset here in the Senate Hall, thus affecting the whole Senate operation. The matter is larger than all of us and greater than the recent interest shown by the individual senators or by their self - esteem, whether they need to yield or not. Meeting means that men are yielding, it's called compromise, and I think it's a very important road for the Environment Commission, and that's why it's this way, and I hope that we're going well to win this case in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u52	Mr. President. For us sitting in the hall, this case is starting to look kind of crazy. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, however, took a good look at the story and explained it a little. I don't have a place in the Committee. I'm an amateur in this matter, and I've been watching it from the beginning. I think that would be a good thing if we put the law into action as soon as possible, but my question to that matter. A senator is: Does he believe that the bill is the highest? A minister recommended and with the equipment it was used in the history of the highest. Minister is in violation of the agreement made yesterday?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u53	A respectable president. As the case has been said, the arrest of the law is assumed to be postponed until January 1st, 2016. In agreement with the council groups and the president, there will be a change in the case that the execution will be postponed until November 15th. So no, that doesn't necessarily mean the change will take place and will be done here on the Environment and Transport Committee before the matter comes up for further discussions at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u54	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, and it is a postponement of validation. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall considered the history of the matter well, and he is the one here who knows the matter best from the perspective of the One who has been on the Environment Committee since the last term was discussed and then in the terms of the season. The work being carried out here was given when the government took over the spring of 2009 along with other projects in the environmental section of the government, which was very long and ambitious in its efforts to lead the global reexamination of nature protection laws. It was an enormous task, as we have seen here. It was a fundamental law column that needed a basic review, so to speak, had arrived at a time. Natural protection laws had first been passed in Iceland by the world's highest level. The minister of Eysteinn Jónsson, who had measured the case so that you would have expected the advance party to take pride in remaining leading by law in terms of nature protection and its basis. That is why it was quite surprising when the time came for it to happen. The Environment Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson appeared here and recommended a very short bill that was not about to be offered a completely new case, it wasn't about bringing a new bill in due time for the protection of nature. It was the bill of simply removing the law 60/2013. There was nothing more than removing those laws. Then, with discussions and agreements to avoid that crash, we are still working on the basis of the agreement here, as it was quite convenient to postpone the implementation of the bill yet or the law from 2013 to July 1, 2015, which is just not tomorrow but the other. That is where we are. A minister of nature protection has consulted with an environmental committee and then, in agreement, agreed on the end of the council that the due date has still been delayed. Then we must bear in mind that we are past my terms and yet have not produced any material developments in new nature protection laws under the leadership of the government that intend to be exemplary in the environment on a global scale according to the government declaration of cooperation. Then the goal is so high that the government is to be noteworthy worldwide for the forwardness and ambitions of the environment. In earlier times, the Environment Minister of the Future Party, Jónína Bjartmarz, presented a bill for a law that did not seem to be possible but was a countermarked bill, and in effect turned to bringing into law all the principles of the Environment Court, to do so by one continuous legislation instead of doing so in the way proposed, i.e. the rule of caution is included in the text, but the approach was such and was in good harmony with the ambitions of the forward party at times in this category. Sadly, it could not be measured or completed at the time without my knowing the political or material reasons why it could not be achieved. Sometimes you feel like a perfect period, and especially when you're in a position of government. But when you're in government, sometimes it's short and even short, and when you get such ambitious jobs from those who are going to put together a co-election declaration to represent the global reevaluation of nature protection laws, and then you start this review a few weeks after the government is started and then you have a job in the final season to try to achieve it by law, you realize how narrow a person really is stabbed and scored by four years it can be an incredible time for the total minds of this kind of research. On this project, I have thought that we should use more large metal groups, i.e. The procedure to put together first a team of workers who have the responsibility to map the entire legal environment, not only to consult the existing laws, but to view everything and what the law has to do with it. This was called a White Book, a White Book on Nature Protection in Iceland, and is in accordance with the structure of legislators in other countries, especially Norway and Sweden, as I understand. In fact, the White Book is virtually a textbook and a material basis for building legislation on it. It can be a mistake to reevaluate legislation on available laws at all times because it allows you to overlook the many changes that time produces, the atmosphere, and new knowledge. This strategy known in the countries around us is designed to develop a more materialistic and objective legislation. The text in which a white book on nature protection is now used for education in several universities in Iceland because of its strong basis for this is below some sort of location in the legal environment and the regular work of nature protection in Iceland at the time of its appointment. On this basis, the bill was built after a considerable discussion of the White Book, had been a subject of environmental coverage, and had been proposed, all to cover this extended community discussion. Now that is true in our country, in the blue country, everyone has an opinion of natural protection, and it may not be abnormal, because we live in the land of good health and enjoy living in a unique natural world, both in pleasure and in emotional and spiritual nourishment during our daily lives. Therefore, nature protection is relevant to all of us, and as a result, both when nature's protection is limited and even more so when we are confronted with nature itself, and this is a subject of nature protection. As the expression implies, according to the sounds, nature protection laws revolve around protecting nature. And protect her from what? Protect nature from the actions and actions of man who may take care of its interests. Thus, we are elected representatives at the National Assembly of Iceland who are elected by the nation to try in a law code like these to present defenses on behalf of nature, which they cannot provide for themselves, and that is a very important task. There are always loud parties, there are always loud voices that hold the opposite, i.e. that the defenses are too stiff, that the right recruitment provider, tourism providers, farmers, and others should be better confronted by nature, the task of nature protection laws, to draw this line into the sand. How challenging it is when the subject is also to achieve some form of social reconciliation over what we are on the table! This was shown in the case of the highest. Ministers that this peace was before us and it was the most important thing to the Ministry now and to the government in terms of the protection of nature, and then I get more upset because of the 2013 law we had quite strong precautions. We had it so strong, it has some value. It means that nature enjoys the doubt. Similarly, we had strong laws for special protection that would be broad, i.e. that natural phenomena would be protected regardless of the terms of peace. Then we're talking about natural phenomena such as lava and waterfalls and artificial crates, etc., that they are simply protected because of their special status, not because they are peaceful or not peaceful but because they are natural phenomena. It is a protection arrangement. These factors were greatly strengthened in the 2013 law and are considerably stronger than the 1999 law, whereby the game was made. That was the goal. That is why I worry when men say they want to make more peace with me about these things. Then I ask, "Did I see what viewpoint? " The treaty meeting where representatives of the Environment Ministry, Environment Minister himself, the Environment Commission, or someone else is attending a meeting with artificial crates is not available. We don't have a meeting with waterfalls. We don't have a meeting with lava. We may have meetings with the professional organizations, with the organizations of our industry, or with any of the others who are concerned that they are not limited in their dealings with nature. That is why the challenge to us is that we attempt to fill nature's seat at the table of negotiations. It is our mission to serve on the Environment and Transport Committee, and it is the task of the Minister to look out for the interests of nature protection as the Minister of Nature. It'll lead to it on its own. After seeing a secretary on the Ministry's Web in March and after hearing of the changes in the water on that bill, it is clear that the safety precautions from the law No. 60/2013, and the special protection is being weakened. It is the material situation that exists. I'd like to agree with the review that happened here by the dog. Senator Róbert Marshall of progress and the trust between the Committee and the Ministry as regards the discussion. I was disappointed, but he in himself is better qualified to review the issues where he was involved in the agreement as a representative of the committee of his day and then saw how that was accomplished. I expect we're going to work with the Ministry for progress and, of course, expect us to see sooner than later a strong nature protection law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u55	Mr. President. I can make a President happy because I'm not going to extend this discussion much. Me, like others, thirst to hear a speech. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son, who seems to me on this discussion, is, in effect, a barrier to having a final agreement, but why. A senator will explain in more detail the following. I think this is about negotiations. We've arranged an agreement on the end of the council. One of the issues agreed on is this issue that suddenly emerges out of nowhere. It is concluded with the agreement of the presidents of each body that the subject of the dispute will be put aside by giving a postponement bill and there is a date in it. That's what all classes are doing. Then, all of a sudden, the agreement on this particular point is upset. This means that the overall human contract, which is arguing about the end of this council, is also upset. I feel that there is a need to be absolutely clear about who is going to be the result. I fully agree with the views that have been expressed by some of them. Council members of the government that it is necessary to take care of what is first taken into account by the new laws on nature protection. I don't have a place in the transport and environment committee, but I'm an amateur on that subject. I am one of the three present and former environmental ministers involved in this discussion. I am well aware that the laws of nature that were accepted, however. paritaprevir Some of the Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's trouble broke into paper. Like what? In two very important matters, a senator traced them to a high level of nature. First, then, the rule of caution is much clearer and sharper in that law, and second, the special protection is vital. Besides, there were one three, perhaps four things about which there were several disputes, in fact more when we discussed this at the beginning of the season. But I've watched this matter very closely and sense that there has been a will on both sides to solve it. Men have left behind on the side of the government, also on the side of the government. I feel that it is important to continue on the course of reconciliation that had so successfully begun with the head of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Fear of Höskuldur, son of Þórhallsson. Here this morning, the deputy sent a why. paritaprevir And Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who is very smart, and I think to the highest degree. A minister would have woken up profusely by the shower. I thought it was the highest. Ministers first come to terms of the matter. A senator who noted that if the interest in nature protection is shown in budgets and government spending plans over the years, the court would bring about the Supreme Court. Ministers that this matter was first of all, he asked the right question: What about the other things? The fact is, like the highest. Minister knows, one of the reasons why we're going to end the matter for this discussion is to accept the terms of peace. V.E.G. A minister has been brought up several times in the winter, and it must only be said that the matter is proved to be true that almost no money has been given to make peace, and there are no money in front of him. V.E.G. The minister mentioned this as a result of his talks this morning, just as before, that men were waiting for the release of the issue and that it became valid. I think it is absolutely clear that there is a obligation to the Ministry to prepare and perform peace statements whether these laws are in force or not, but these laws will help. I can't help but say that considering the way things are now, we are in a hurry to this matter. That is why I agree absolutely that in the way that was signed last night to improve new laws, when the agreed debates are laid down, will be applied no later than November 15, the sooner the better. And it's a wonder if there are some triggers in this fishing station that are going to prevent that agreement. I don't believe it until I assume that the great peace chief, the head of the environment and transportation committee, will do anything but always agree on this matter. I hope I have no man who would get excited and say this, "I'm going to finish my speech. " But I got it. Höskuldur Þórhallsson that he has walked with a garment of reconciliation and armed in these matters, he is to turn his speech about it. Then all will rejoice in this hall. I notice that the timing is as clear as it is when I can see it. Councilmen and the highest. Legions of the Progress Party, which agree more with the government on this matter than with that. Senator. That's natural enough to make a difference. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister concluded with praise on the fact that as it seemed, she would be better acquainted with this matter in the goodwill of the government. V.E.G. Minister should know him. Many of us have worked with her in the past, and she knows that our loving arms are gentle and warm. But, hey. paritaprevir The voice of Þórhallsson is open unto all men.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u56	A respectable president. I came up here to answer the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister earlier showed the fact that it must be more important when we discuss such a big and important matter that we are dealing with matters in a material way than that we are focusing on some deadline, that must be. I pointed out in the light of my Senate experience that November 15 might not be enough to finish this case. In fact, I have felt that it was a perfect agreement to postpone the filming process now on July 1, and I was surprised to learn that it was part of some conversation between the council groups whether it would be a reality or not. In my mind, if the law had gone into effect now on July 1, 2015, all the work that has been started would have been replaced, all in all the way. In fact, I heard from some sources that they thought it was just fine, but then I'd like to point out that it's not just about human nature protection or the question of whether you're on the right or on the left side or in the middle, technical transfers on these issues were just not okay at all. Aðalheiður, a Jóhannsdóttir scholar from the University of Iceland who has worked closely with the Ministry today, pointed out that e.g. The application of the precaution just did not work out as if it were stated in the current law. It's these things that have to be fixed. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir led the smaller part to me at least in the conversations we had with an environment and transport committee in our time. I know that from someone who felt that she was on the environment during the political debate, she was right about the importance of success and of trying to make peace in this matter. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir here, and I heard no better than her coming into that for some things, it's very hard to make peace. I also listened to her talk on a frame plan, and I could no better understand that talk than that she would say that there would be a problem. I think she spent quite a lot of words on it, and I traced it to my speech, it should just be a problem. So I disagree completely. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall said in his speech that this spring, I had not been content with the matter. Let's wait, is that a fair remark? No, not at all. The matter has been the custody of the Ministry. We've hardly seen what the adjustment was. Should the director of the Environment and Transport Committee call the government opposition to see and discuss what? That was all nonsense. I was very thoughtful when the government had come up here and said that she had left behind her right to talk. I don't think she ever left out her right to talk. But I'm concerned that if we give ourselves such a narrow time limit, then the very right to speak in this matter will, as it seems, be the future of the government situation. I think it would be much closer to the committee's having just a good time, taking a good time, just as she did about a year ago, when the deal was reached without any time set aside, so that at the time of the case, members of Congress would be able to discuss these matters in a perfect way. That's the main thing. I'd like to then completely dismiss it as a lack of cooperation between the Ministry and the Committee. I don't like the officials of the Environment Ministry who have worked hard to call everyone, all those who have something to do with this matter and try to work on it professionally. I've got a lot of doubt. Environment Minister that it has ever been given as much time before at the General Assembly. Now, what would be the main source of the opposition to government? Yes, the case was applied to the Ministry's Web and called for reviews. I simply think that it was very professional and fully consistent with the agreement made within the committee. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Róbert Marshall said in his speech, as soon as he criticizes it, said that it was a positive practice, but it simply surprised him so much. That's why he didn't like it, and I understood why. paritaprevir Svavardístir Svavarsdóttir said it was some kind of a violation of the agreement. How can continued professional work be a violation of the agreement made within the committee over a year ago? How can that be? I can't see any better than it's being done professionally. I just want to reiterate what I said here that I understood the agreement so it should be postponed. I was surprised, in fact, I am here with two members of the council of my committee, that it was simply discussed not to do so. Isn't it true that we keep taking our time? We may not be able to settle on specific matters. We may not be able to settle the precautions as well as the dose. paritaprevir Sóggis Svavarsdóttir came in here. She thinks she's being reduced. In fact, I've said there should be a general rule, in a constitution like Norway, I'm following it. I've said that from this part of the talk many times. I think that would be very good. And of course, so I'll answer why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who brought in all kinds of conspiracy theories that had not stood up to finish the case, I think he should rather study the type of work that has taken place, put himself in material affairs, and discuss it materially instead of being in the presence of debates about the progressive party and the Independence Party not wanting to finish the case, and there's some other underlying reason. We have to finish the law on nature. It's very important. Hv. paritaprevir The 2013 elections were a tremendously successful Mörður for the Árnason. I had a meeting with him, reviewing the changes he made on the bill, and I couldn't see any better than his work had returned much. We then said that this case would be resumed, and we were on it. It was necessary. As far as I could see, people were happy that they had been done, and that should have been discussed. What I'm worried about is that when people say there's a disagreement, they're simply putting too much pressure on this case, and I'm sorry about that. That's why I talked about it earlier that we shouldn't be setting some deadlines. Of course, I will take the matter firmly, calling out for the person who has been requested. There is no exception if he has something to say and wants to bring in a good one, but like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall came in earlier, but it's not always cool. It's just that way. At times, people may disagree, sometimes at the root of their political ideas, political thinking. What, then, are we going to do? Should we let the deadline destroy the case? Or are we simply to have a great deal of good discussions at the Council and vote for them? I can see why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is nod. Of course, and that's what I wanted to emphasize. A respectable president. Of course, I will resort to the material and good conduct of this case in my committee. I'll be looking for the reconciliation, calling for the conversation, and we'll see what's good. It may not be enough, perhaps. Let's try it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u57	Mr. President. Hv. A senator began his speech at a number of war games, but he was greatly softened by the end. I hope that there is a great deal of reconciliation and a willingness in this matter. Hv. A senator can't come here to accuse you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for some conspiracy theories when everything he says in his speech suggests that there is trouble. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was right. It has to be said at the right time. paritaprevir So Þórhallsson's horrified son felt that it was possible to settle matters so that the bill might come into effect on November 15th. I also have several congregation experiences, because of the circumstances. A senator is talking about his own, and I can't better see that this case, as it is now, has been well worked under the head of the rock. Senator. People know the problems, they know where the differences lie. Two months should be sufficient and more than that to settle the matter. [[The president calls.]] Eventually, if there is a disagreement, there must be speeches, and then votes. [[The president calls.]] This is a matter of concern to many. [[The president calls.]] No wonder the matter is discussed!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u58	A respectable president. That's exactly what I want. I want speeches in this case. But I don't want it to be many months' talk. I don't think anyone wants to. The right to speak can be abused. The freedom of expression is restricted to the Constitution. There's a limited amount of speech at the General Assembly. It's limited. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson can't come here like before and give talks for days until he has to turn his back, that's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u59	I've got a good balloon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u60	In the case of conspiracy, I was simply urging the senator to discuss the matter materially instead of having some kind of conspiracy theory. I'm sorry. I did not, therefore, feel that peace could be restored. Of course, I'm going to put it to work and try. Two months should do, I think. [[The president calls.]] I was just pointing out that there would be no need to put some time pressure on this. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm pointing at in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u61	Mr. President. To rest the conspiracy doctrine: You must not forget how this matter began. It began, so here came a minister, like a surly one into the hall, and said, "Hey, guys, we're going to knock these songs off! - and thought it could be done by snapping a finger. True, the minister who glances through that shelter has learned from experience and is a different, new, and better man after his first experience. In that light, it is understandable that humans are protected. I'll take the will for the job. I like what you're doing. To state this statement, a senator believes that two months can be enough to resolve this matter. At least that's when I feel like it. A senator has taken into account the attitude I have in my case. I want this case out of the way. I want to see these laws. I realize that, I've had a lot of talks about it here in the first term, that there's something to be taken care of. I am prepared to do so in certain matters, and I have already done so, but what. A senator must give us time to finish the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u62	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We need to take some time to get it over with. What I pointed out, in view of my experiences in the matter of becoming a decade, that this is, unfortunately, very often and more often, but not that Congress is delayed for various reasons. That is why I pointed out that November 15 is a rather short period of time. I think it's all right to point out that conspiracy theories that never came up to finish the case, that it's not a will, etc. I'm completely out of the air. What really matters is material discussion. We are to focus on it and not be accusing one another of suspicions of chaos, names of people, or things like them. The important thing is that we create a protection laws that are as much at peace as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u63	A respectable president. I find in my mind the Icelandic snare of the term, with the permission of the President, the regression guide, and I may next be able to call it a sort of reality connection. The following law is proposed to be postponed in 36 hours. I wonder, when what. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's debt brings up a rumor, and he's going to look at it, what claim may be made to him in this matter. [[Up front.]] Increasingly, I'd like to ask: "Looky." A senator so that he is not bound by the agreement made with a body of members of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u64	A respectable president. I'm usually, but maybe not always connected to reality, I feel at least I wasn't talking about it in my speech that we should call for great comments on this subject. I didn't say anything about it. I hope so. A senator was listening to what I was talking about. When we get the report on the Environment and Transport Committee, we will be called for reviews of the five terms we left behind and will expect to be changed. I want to ask you why. Senator: Does he believe he is bound to the agreement we made on the Environment and Transport Committee that the execution of the case would be postponed on July 1?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u65	A respectable president. Again with the reality connection, there was no such agreement, okay? paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son, never at all. He's not answering the question. This affects the progress of the matter at the council. It may be necessary to consider whether there is no need to interrupt a meeting so that members of the Parliament can review the situation if it is actually so that the head of the Environment Committee, why. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þórhallsson's son, consider him not bound by an agreement concerning the end of the council. I ask him to answer that question because it really affects the progress of this case and how long it will take here at the council when 36 hours are until the law to be delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u66	A respectable president. Apparently, it was an agreement to postpone the entry of the Law on July 1, 2015. That's the fact. This was done on the Environment and Transport Committee. I've asked my partners if it's not right and they've confirmed it. That is why I was very surprised to learn that we were discussing this matter. [[Up front.]] - No. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[The point is, what's all this nonsense?]] A respectable president. Of course, we, on the Environment and Transport Committee, will work very fast and safely and try to complete it by November 15 but I think we should respect the agreement that has been established between the administration and the government's opposition to the outworking of this matter. [[Up front.]] I know why. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir does not think she is involved, but she did not sit on the committee when the matter was then discussed and a great deal of peace was achieved. [[Up front.]] I'm sure I'm concerned that the discussion that has been discussed, that there should be a problem with this matter, that the work that lies ahead, will be grounded. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u67	Mr. President. Of course, it is not easy to reason with people who are constantly speaking what is wrong. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir In fact, the debt of Þórhallsson's son repeated and repeated, that I said one thing and another, for example, that I should be at odds with this matter, not to disagree in the matter, has he repeatedly told and quoted me without me ever saying it. I'm just asking the senator to correct it because I'm not dependent on him to quote words I don't recognize in this case. I'm worried about the tone of a case. Senator, I'm worried about the situation that here is becoming a sparkling from what has been brought up, both materially and in terms of how we're going to solve the problem. But at what? paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson's debt is held here by coverts, miscreants, and war, I do not feel that we are going to make a success of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u68	A respectable president. I simply refer to the agreement that has existed here between more and less of the Committee on the matter. My associates know about this, and I don't understand why. paritaprevir First, Vargis Svavarsdóttir does not recognize her speech in the discussion of the box. What I referred to earlier is about the whole group of litigators, not this case, we're simply talking about a case that has to do with the whole group. I'll do my thing. It may well be that this speech is interpreted by members of the council, w. paritaprevir In fact, Össur's Skarphéðinsson interpreted it and demanded that he view it as a reconciliation, but that is simply the case. A senator that often interprets things as she pleases each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u69	Mr. President. I hear from the senator he's beginning to work on the settlement, it's a good foundation he's suggesting here. But I would like to ask him, because he says in his speech that he feels that there was no need to set the time limit, that setting the time limit is not enough for the case. Now, the time limit we're working on right now is not tomorrow but the other, i.e. Wednesday, July 1st. Then I ask, because the bill recommended by the minister assumes that the time is on January 1, 2016, and the senator is here trying to speak from the council groups' agreement on November 15, "What's that? " A senator proposes? Or does he have any suggestion on how the Environment and Transport Committee should complete the matter under discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u70	A respectable president. I believe that this committee should take the time to review the five issues of controversy between the Environment and Transport Committee, I think. I also believe that we should have more time to complete this case and that I can say once more, I think that there might be a situation, I do not hope that this time is too short. What happens then is that the laws on nature protection will be ruined, and I'm sorry. The point is, we finish work on nature protection laws without any pressure. I think it's possible, I hope it's possible, and if the senator wants to interpret my words as some opposition to my wanting to work things out, that's a big misunderstanding. I want to work on the case further in peace, but I have noted that sometimes and even in advance, people can assume that not everything will be okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking the time to share with me the great congregational experience, pointing out that I am here with conspirators, innuendo, and unsolved. He encourages me to put myself into the matter, which I thought I had actually done. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would then be able to provide me with instructions on how to read a bill, the financial and economic reviews of the Ministry, different from the fact that the laws on nature protection were not taken into account in spite of the law's and the last 15 months to take effect on Wednesday and on half this year. Is it responsible government governance, or is it deliberate or unexpected, on the part of those whose government is protected by nature?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u72	A respectable president. I was on the budget for the entire last term. What happened recently, unfortunately, was not expected to be realized. It can be interpreted into their own direction, that there is evidence that the matter was not to be worked on, despite the fact that it was as clearly as possible to work on the case in agreement and on a professional basis within the Ministry. So I wondered why. A member of the council was quick to suggest that the law did not stand to accept it. Of course it is. It's still there, and I hope so. A senator will agree that it is very important to make peace and that we will be able to complete the protection laws of nature. I would like to hear if he would agree with me that it is better to do so without a time pressure than in some narrow frame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u73	A respectable president. Sounds like I need to repeat myself there. A senator took a very small part in my material remark that over the past year, the plan was not to postpone a validation. The plan for the entire past year was that of July 1 of this year, a law that had been valued as a budget was to be applied and put into budgets. What went wrong? Crazy dog. The financing board or the Commission's lost transport or the highest level. Minister? This is quite clear at the Ministry. These funds are not expected in the budgets of the current year. Six months in this year, the law was valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u74	A respectable president. I tried my best to answer a question. Senator. As part of the budget, both government and government opposition are concerned about things that should be in there and things that should not be in there. I don't know why this was being done, but I don't remember any comments on the budget in this regard despite a considerable amount of discussion, but I may well be mistaken about this point. This does not focus on the environment and transport committee. This does not turn to the physical side of the protection laws discussed here, in no way. I'm actually sorry to hear that. A senator would not have answered me about the time limit because I would have liked to know if he would not agree that it would be better to win this matter calmly instead of having this narrow frame. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u75	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent discussion on this bill, nature protection Act, i.e. Here we are merely discussing the continuation of their validation, but of course the main issues or the main points mentioned have been slightly considered recently. Of course, it is normal for the head of the environment and transport committee to have some concerns about a rigid frame, to complete the job by November 15th. It's the natural man who needs to be in charge of his job. He knows how it works so that there's nothing good about saying that our fine chairman, who is now a great man of reconciliation and who has been given a very special praise from the council stand here, is the man who best has heard, and precisely because of this case when it was discussed over a year ago. Procrastination is a poison to my bones. Everyone who comes to me knows that I don't want to put it off if I can avoid it. I sometimes think it's better to make the wrong decision and put it through than constantly to postpone it. I'm bored by people who always want to put everything away, I'm bored with it. That's why I felt really bad, and I want it to show up here that we didn't perform this case this spring. That's why I and my great members of the Ministry who have been working on this matter were very much in agreement that we were going to strive for the readyness of the bill at the same time. So I wanted the committee to be able to get the bill right after we delayed the filming so that the committees could have a chance to read it over and even be ready for questions and other questions at the first meeting in the Committee to speed it up. I really hope that we can all work now so that it gets inside this rigid frame. But I realize perfectly, and accept again and again the words of the Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, that there will be a lot of time pressure to put into practice all members of the committee that they work fast and fast. However, they must not lose sight of their main objective, i.e. To bring in a good and revised nature protection law for the General. I like to play with my speech, and I have to let myself do it here. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir noted that the work started in 2009 on a reexamination of nature protection laws. If I have come close to next year, it's going to be that famous seven years, so I'm going to hope that for the next seven years it will be a good natural world, that it's been the thin years, and that the years ahead are going to be good with good nature laws that have been handled well by Congress. I don't need a long talk about this. I repeat my statement that I would like to keep the shot on November 15th. The transition must be made to an Environmental and Transport Committee, and I want to keep my promise that the Ministry would put a lot of work on it and that we would be on the board of the Commission of rapid and effective work. We will do all we can to support that work. But this is a pretty short period of time, and all you have to do is go over whether they see it as a chance to stay at November 15 as a new set of values.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u76	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill moved by the Economic and Business Committee. The bill is very short and sweet. It is about the provision of additional pensions and the number of pay days, i.e. that the stakeholders are allowed to pay less than three months each year if they have selected less than four due dates a year. There is also a law of value. This bill is given due to the loan markets'comments that some loans to be paid by means of additional pensions have fewer pay days than four a year, and the report says, with the permission of a president: 8 mg. provision for temporary XVI Act No. 129/1997,br. Law No. 40/2014, it is required that the owners of the special requirements should be charged with paying prior fees to the lenders that have been selected less than four times a year. It says that the owners should assign their credit fees to the candidates at the time when payment can be made on the headphone of selected loans. Making the bill that became the law of No. 40/2014 considered it appropriate to separate payment on the applicant's loan from the applicant at least four times a year, where it is generally more beneficial for borrowing to receive the usual amount of payment on the head chair. Following the entry of the law, it has been found that the selected loans of a substantial number of candidates have less than four times per year. Unified laws, therefore, will pay the applicants who have requested to reserve the loans, e.g. with dues twice a year, can't meet the law's requirement to be paid on the head chair loans at least four times a year. If nothing is to be done, it is considered that part of the pay will be first taken into account in the event of the growth and compensation due to the failure of individual loan institutions unless borrowers take the initiative to request the terms of the return change in the form of increased loans per year. Such changes in terms of the terms and costs of the applicant, the possession of the special property and the credit centre. Since one of the basic laws of the law is that it is ensured that the pay of candidates should be set on headphone loans, it is suggested that the owners be allowed to pay less than three months each year the loans have been selected less than four times a year. The change allows you to meet candidates who pay less than four times a year off their loans and choose to maintain terms that lend the same amount, i.e. the number of dues. It should be noted that the authority to pay less than four times a year on the head of the loans means that it is at least paid on a loan every due day. Again, this bill is carried by an economic and business committee and the Commission agrees to move it to pay for additional pensions being set aside in the way of thought. The committee suggests that this bill will be accepted in its simplicity. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u77	Honorable generals. Yesterday's news came that one of ours, Blöndal H. Farm, 4th. Smoke. s., had died in her home by night. Friday, recently 71 years old. For several years, his banana disease was a cancer that he had convulsed on for a long time by a great lack of zeal and courage. He was held until the Passover, the last of March 5th, and in other words, he did not give in until all his strength was gone. Blöndal H. Farm was born in Reykjavík on June 24, 1944. His parents were Haraldur H. J. Blöndal, sailor, and workman, and Sigríður G. Blöndal office. He completed a student's study from the University of High School in Reykjavík in 1965, a diplom test in physics, mathematics, and computer science at the University of 1968, and another diplom, in practical mathematics, probability, statistics, insurance, and public insurance, at the University of Klas in 1971. A doctor's test took him to the same university in 1973. Back home from school, Pétur became an expert at the National Science Institute of the University of Iceland, as well as a practice teacher at the school until 1977. That year, he became president of the Penitentiary Fund until 1984, when he became the director of the Council of Copenhagen Corp. which he formed with others two years earlier. He served in 1991 when he sold his share and became a teacher at Iceland's Versailles School until he was elected to Congress in 1995. Blöndal H. Farmer became more than 30 years old for his jobs in financial life, especially in the area of his expertise in insurance and pension. He became the head of the business in many areas. He recommended that the establishment of the Council of Copenhagen be offered to the public the opportunity to increase and preserve their money during a time of extreme inflation and economic instability. He was involved in investments and stock trades, but he always encouraged the care of the funds both individuals and the public, and he himself was lacking in personal life. His authority was in his blood. He always stressed the freedom and responsibility of individuals as he promoted social reform in behalf of those in need. For example, until his baptism, Pétur was deeply involved in insurance and commercial social activities that will not be considered here. He also wrote articles in magazines on his personal affairs and subjects and received instruction. Among other things, he was in the management of Icelandic insurance experts for years. He was in the management of various companies and partners and shall only be referred to as Bankers of Iceland. 1994◯1995 and the board of SPRON 2003◯2004. Pétur Blöndal, who received a fine course in his party of testing, the Independence Party, when he first presented himself, before the 1995 General election, and ever since. From 1995 to his death, at 26 legislatures all over. Pétur never ran an organized reelection campaign and never asked anyone to vote for him. His progress, however, was good, for he was highly regarded for a clear, independent presentation that had a sound background in many places. Although he did not always pass through a crowded path, according to his opinions, he was listened attentively, by political armies as well as by others. He was original in his thinking and always open to new political ideas. Undeterred by these ideas, he was not concerned about whether they would be popular or not. At the World Hall, Pétur Blöndal worked most on a financial and business committee and was on several of her chairman's meetings, but he also served on committees on housing, health, and insurance. He participated in the international work of senators and was in the National Security and Cooperation Organization of the European Parliament, who served as president of the United States for a long time and influential on the scene. In each of his duties, Blöndal H.. He was a member of Congress, was a fighter, and often left behind a long day's work. He's raised respect for hard work and expertise, including in mathematics, insurance, economics, and economics in general, as well as for their honesty and moderation and fair conduct in discussions, both at conferences and in the committees of the Generals, who made him popular outside and during the council. With all of us, we salute a good and good partner and an extremely memorable man we all miss at this moment. I beg the Senate to agree with my words and to remember Blöndalur H. International, by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u78	A respectable president. I recommend a change to the budget and to the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to correct the changing of deposit insurance laws and insurance systems for investors, No. 98/1999, with subsequent changes. The above is a reference to an exception from insurance protection. So it was that to the committee, there was a talk that was considered to be a question of the insurance rights of the administration, i.e. The deposit system of depositors and investors felt that financial companies in broken - up therapy did not consider financial companies to be in the sense of law No. 161/2002 and thus use insurance protection by law. 98/1999. At the same time, the Ministry's attention to law was made to the certainty of the situation. The committee received this bill for review and suggested that the bill be approved by one change, although a part of a paper section in a paper farm, both of which fell, according to a proposal of this bill. This bill is very simple and gives in to doubt in a case of doubt. Under this view, publications on March 23, 2015, the following members of the Economic and Business Committee: Chairman Frosti Sigurjónsson, Executive Director Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, Willum Þór Þórsson, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Andersen Á. Sigfússon and Sigriderour on. I repeat, the committee suggests that the bill will be approved with the proposed change. 1098. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u79	V.E.G. President. I recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee on bill to correct a change in the law of equal status and equal rights between women and men, with subsequent adjustments. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the Department of Health and the Social Security Association of Icelandic insurance mathematicians. There were also reviews from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Alliance of State and Towns, Equal Court, the National Association of Old Citizens and Civilics. The reviews received on the same issue at 143. The legislature is also available along with the Commission's Committee for Education and Education, which occurred then. The objective of this bill is to make necessary changes in the law on equal positions and equal rights of women and men in order to implement, in an adequate manner, the European Parliament and the Council on equal management of women and men with access to and dispensing of goods and services. The aim of the decree is to promote gender equality in the purchase of goods and services. That is how the directive prohibits any price or service on the basis of a generation of buyers. The directive does not reach the labour market. The bill suggests a new law, Article 24. a, involving access or delivery of products on one side and access to or services, however, will not be more favorable to another sex. The conflict between such discrimination will apply to all those who provide products and services offered to the general market as well as to the public market, including public authorities. These include the legitimate goals behind the setting up of a dwelling designed for the second generation to protect victims of violence. The bill does not assume that the new directive applies to family and/or privacy business or about jobs in a labour market. However, the changes in some cases will affect insurance insurance policy, such as life and health insurance. The new provision of the medicinal product will prohibit risk assessment based solely on gender characteristics. However, prior to launch, a physiological difference between men and women may have an effect in isolated cases. However, the recommendation clearly shows that such differences cannot be applied in the case of pregnancy or birth. The Committee reviewed that it will always be carried out by the Rapporteurs and courts to carry out the thought - provoking assessment of whether legitimate goals justify specific discrimination and whether methods of achieving it are appropriate and necessary. There are various examples from the European Commission's report on Equal Opportunities, which discuss the experience of the application of the directive, i.e. how European Commission will interpret its terms as well as its courts and the European Court. The Commission also showed that all Member States have already introduced the directive's contents and was exported to Denmark and Sweden in a similar manner to the proposed bill. As the bill shows, it is clear that the bill will affect this country if it becomes legal, and it can be expected that the bill will lead to a more balanced position of the sex in certain areas as well as to increase both gender rights on the basis of law on equal status and male and female rights. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed as a basis, except for the adjustment proposed by the Chairman of the Committee, and that is 3. It is said that this law is derived from the value of September 1, 2015, and that the terms of contracts are only made on September 1, 2015. Since the law will only achieve new contracts after that time, we feel that longer lead-in periods are not needed in this country. This is what you're gonna sign. The members of the council, Konráðsdóttir Congisdósdótttir, chairman of this office, Páll Valur Björnsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Arnardóttir Lára Arnardótir, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Arnna.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u80	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the change in arms law, No. 16/1998, with subsequent changes. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted its members from the State Department of Internal Affairs, from the Landsbusters Association, from the National Anthropist Institute, and the Commission has reviewed some sources. The bill suggests that two European directives, either Directive 2007/23/EC of 23 May 2007, should be introduced and the Commission's Directive 2008/43/EC of 4 April 2008 to implement, according to the Council's Directive 93/15/EEC, a system for the recognition and trace of commercial explosives. The objective of the bill is to increase public safety and consumer protection in connection with fireworks. Six. The bill is proposed to change VI. the part of the law. These include the provision of a market surveillance program for fires, in which the Agency is already working on most of the marketing monitoring projects laid down in European Union Directives. As a result, it is only natural to make use of the Agency's expertise in this regard. In the treatment of the Committee bill, the opinion was that there would be a better way for a marketing monitoring of these hazardous substances to be put in place by an institution with expertise in the subject and through marketing surveillance in other safety issues. It was noted that the State's work programme will conduct a marketing check on other hazardous products involved in safety and control of transport and storage of hazardous substances. The committee discussed this, pointing out that the purpose of the Commission is to set rules on consumer protection and to ensure that only marketed goods to consumers are not considered to be explosives that could threaten the lives and health of consumers. The Commission's assessment is based on the field of field of consumers that it is to be carried out in this marketing service. It's 10 mg. a-arms 6. the bill that the person who makes, imports, or shops with fireworks should allow the head of the police to provide access to supply books and detailed information on the production, selling goods, and unexplored supplies. A review by the National Institutes of Public Affairs stated that such information is an important part of announcements as well as that it is extremely important that notifications be introduced as soon as possible. Because of her legal role as a consumer clinic, it would be necessary for her to obtain the facts directly and directly from producers, immigrants and/or traders in order to fulfill her legal duties. The committee agrees with these views and makes the adjustment of its proposal. In 1st. Count 9. The bill is made up of manufacturers and importers allow space to adapt to the changes in CE match marks for fires to 15 January 2016. The committee feels that it is right to extend the deadline until 2017 and puts in place the Commission's adjustment form. 2 mgr. Count 9. the bill prohibiting the sale of transfer fires prior to January 1, 2015, and not meeting criteria 2.mgr. Thirty-three. for CE correlation to countries within the EEA. In the treatment of the bill, the views were expressed that the regulations against the regulations of the Regulation No. 952/2003 of fireworks that allow fireworks to be sold in Iceland up to two years after they are imported. The Commission has a right to insist that the law applies only if the people want to reassign fires from abroad and to other countries within the European Economic Areas, but this does not prevent the sale of fireworks to non-EU countries. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes already outlined in the committee opinion. Under the heading "Unnur the Brá of Konráðsdóttir, chairman and executive, Páll Valur Hannesson, Helgi Jóhann Hrafn, Arnardóttir Lára Eagledótttir, Guðva Hen Hen Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Valgerður Guinsdotir Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u81	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a bill to correct a change in the law on the Transport Office, the Transportation Agency and the Transportation Act, and the Air Travel Act, with subsequent changes (require logs, resolved for EEA induction). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Gunnar Örn Indriðason and Björey Björnsson from Internal Affairs. The committee received a review of the case from Istavia. The bill suggests changes partly due to the establishment of the Grouping Agency using the sentence of law No. 119/2012 was reassigned and submitted to reimbursement. It is then proposed to the induction of EU types but its mother's actions were implemented by Regulation and therefore not resolved for the implementation of the mother's actions. In addition, it is suggested that they be authorized to pay expenses for the Coalition Manager's work. The cost of his work now pays off Istavia, but the Sync was formerly in a contract with Istavia. Because of comments from the EFTA Agency on the need to ensure the independence of a cohesion director, his duties were taken to a walking agency and the need to measure the Agency's authority on the payment of expenses for his work. In Comb 4. The bill is submitted to a Regulation authority to implement the European Medicines Agency projects in the area of the Air Safety Agency (EASA) and the Agency has been hidden on the basis of its institutions. According to 1st mg. Ninety-six. law on air travel is involved in the work of the European Air Safety Agency, which includes the aim of improving flight security, reducing air pollution, and representing the government's views on the work of the Agency. That leaves 2 mg. Ninety-six. The legal warrant for the induction of the Agency's founding building. In a comment, we're 4. The bill tells us that the secretary's authority is limited to implementing regulations relating to tasks within the Regulation for the establishment of the European Air Safety Agency and that have been adopted in the EEA Convention. In this way the lawgiver has determined the rules that a minister can set on the basis of the Law. Presumably, the types of EEA will be implemented by a Regulation on the basis of this directive, and the cities will be able to obtain information on this. The rules need to be in line with the target of law and participation in Iceland at the European Air Safety Agency, as mentioned above, 1 mg. Ninety-six. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u82	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Commission's alumnuity and the economic and business proposals for bill change of the law on financial guarantee measures, no. May 46, 2005 (EES rules, induction). You can find the aforementioned opinion on this subject. 1236 and the motion is on. 1237. I'll be tracking their subject in the main points here. The changes proposed in the bill are due to the EU Directive's decision from May 2009, to the change of the Directive on the final payment in the subsidies and the marketing systems for the stocks and agreements of financial insurance regulations. Budget insurance arrangements include two-sided contracts, particularly between financial institutions, mortgages, or deposit agreements, or financial commitments. If the bill is legalized, financial institutions will be permitted to pledge or sell debts to guarantee financial commitments, e.g. in that case, if you borrow a loan from someone else. For the Committee it was noted that scope for the implementation of the directive was not fully implemented. EU Member States are authorized to decide that if a debt is an consumer or a micro-company or a small company, unless an insurance agent is a depositor, it may fall outside the scope of the directive. The understanding of the Commission is that the EU directive's aim is to increase the number of available guarantees in order to facilitate access to loans within the EU. In view of the Commission, this aim is reasonable in the environment of the EU where the flow of money has not been enough in the past few years. However, there is another situation in Iceland where there is too much money to drive. The currently available amount of money (M3) is about 1,600 billion dollars. about 400 billion dollars. more than at the end of 2008. The bill suggests a consumer loan, as is the law of No. 33/2013, if a principle is not considered to be an obligation. However, two exceptions are laid down in the above principle: First, consumer loans that are mortgage money and secondly consumer loans of under 200 euros or more than 75 thousand euros. In a special explanation, we make 2. The bill shows, among other things, that the addition of a product will be a precautionary measure. It is important that the requirements that will be met under the term debt are considered as reliable insurance where it may be sold or used to limit the risks of creditors and financial companies from their own high-risk commitments. The Commission considered how the directive's scope has been used during its introduction to Norwegian law. According to the Committee, the way in which the directive was introduced in Norway is made wise, in terms of the loan to consumers. So that there will be a loan to consumers, i.e. individuals with non-profit loans, except for the definition of the term debt. As a result, they will be borrowing to consumers who cannot become the opposite of financial insurance in terms of understanding 1 and 2 mg. Section 3. legalize financial guarantee measures. At the implementation of the proposal, the Commission considered a definition of debt requirements in Norwegian legislation. The objective is to lend consumers in the sense of the law to have an independent input which is independent of the term consumer loan in the sense of law on consumer loans. However, it will continue to be expected that a loan to consumers will be considered in the sense of c- team 2.g. The bill when the bail holder or insurance manager is the bank of cash or other institutions listed in Article 2. The law. In Directive 2009/44/EC, EEA countries are also allowed to decide that if the debt is a company or a small company as defined in an Annex to Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC The bill's special comments show that it did not have a reason to use this access rights for micro- or small enterprises, since such enterprises have not been defined in Icelandic legislation as well as a large proportion of Icelandic enterprises would be considered a micro- or small enterprise. However, in the opinion of the Commission it is reasonable to use the scope provided by Directive 2009/44/EC for its introduction in Icelandic correctly. The above stated that the lack of traffic money is not there in Iceland. They have the same reasons for borrowing to micro enterprises and small enterprises and are relevant in the case of loans to consumers to change their partners. The committee suggests that borrowers who are microcompanyed or small companies do not include debts. It refers to a company with fewer than ten employees and a annual balance or balance account of less than 300 million. K. A small enterprise refers to a company with fewer than 50 employees and a annual balance and/or balance bill of less than 1.5 billion. In addition, the Committee proposes technical correction of the bill by removing the words of Europe's budget from the B-jog 1st. in order to avoid the duplication that has already been mentioned in this article. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above adjustments made in a special Senate document. The Árni Páll Árnason was absent from the case. Under the view that Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and executive, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Þór Þórsson Thorthsson, Steingrímsson, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Sigmiur Á. Andersen, Áslaug María Friðriksdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u83	A respectable president. I recommend a commission on bill change of animal disease law and protection against it, No. 25/1993, with subsequent changes (MAH being provided for the Food Agency, Regulation induction) The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for a number of people to meet. According to 2 mg. 10th par. the treatment of animal diseases and the protection against them is permitted by the minister to provide the import details of the products listed in the aκe team 1 mgr. 10. ............................. to specific conditions filled up and to the father's references of the Food Institute. According to this plan, importers of the products need to send a request to the Ministry, which is responsible for the reporting of the Food Institute and then the Ministry has issued. In 1st. The bill is suggested that the Food Agency be allowed to import on the above items without the permission of the Ministry. So if the bill is legal, then the application procedure becomes simpler. Two. The bill is suggested at 29. a The statute shall be written so that the Minister can implement a Regulation to the European Commission's European Commission's proper regulations for additional products from animals and secondary products not intended for human consumption. A wording is tied to certain types, but it is stated in the comments to the bill that several types in this field wait to be recorded in the EEA Convention. If the bill is legal, a minister can insert it without the need for a change of law. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under these publications. Councilmen Kristján L. Möller, chairman of the Committee, Jón Gunnarsson, Director of Gunnar, Magnúsdóttir Rafney Magnúsdótttsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Róbert Marshall, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Egilsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u84	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal for community planning and application plans. The Commission has discussed the matter and has received reviews from the National Institutes of Living, the Eygiment, the Travel Office, the Fourth Displacement of Western Life, the New Arts Center for Iceland, the Union of Iceland's Country Association, the Skaftárfjörn and the Organization. The bill is suggested to provide an overall set of guidelines and application programmes. At the same time, there are indications of changes to the eutrophication laws of the home setting, including In the first place, in the event that the regulations of a community plan are taken, and if the bill is by law it will be passed on by the law on local and application programmes. The objective of the bill, compares with Article 1. It is developing urban development and improving consultations between regional, national, administrative, and regional policies and moving greater responsibilities on urban and community development. The plan is to improve policy development and rural planning. Two. The bill is suggested that there be some improvements under the order of the Council's Management Board on community matters, but at the beginning, it was on the shoulders of a informal staff of the Ministry of Directors. The group is a meeting area for all counselors, for it is a matter of segregation across projects of different schemes. There's a fourth. The implementation of national conventions, which are regional development programmes for each part of the country, is agreed with the Ministry on budgets. If the bill is legalized, a structure shaped since 2011 will be established, which is now based solely on a Minister's decision. The committee suggests that national planning will be added to the list at Article 4. The bill. National planning is not a planned strategy, and the Committee considers it important to ensure harmonization between national planning and national parish plans. It is also suggested that the Court of Auditors can participate in the construction of a regional organization in a 4 mgr. a-arms 6. The bill, for example, does not allow planning laws to allow the building office to be a member of a regional organization. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in the document. In addition to what is available here, they are subject to these publications. Councilmen Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Kristján L. Möller, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Hjálmar Hafliðason Meritsson, Ástþórsson Lovehorsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u85	Madam President. The director of this committee opinion has done well over what is being done here and changed the bill to legalize the strategy and application programmes. My main concern in this matter is that I have not been given enough money to plan a parish. Throughout history, many good plans have been made for earth's heavens and earth, and false wishes in these materials have come from the beginning. General Assembly, but they have not always been combined with the promises or expectations they have been given in their plans. An application program has been in effect for several years. There was an increase in funding for stairways and high expectations that it would continue after this government began, but, unfortunately, the level was the opposite, and the less part cut back, while the less part was about to recover. As important as it is to harmonise a rural plan and a variety of strategy in the area of rural development and the application program we've had here for a few years, there's always a budget that determines the level of wealth and how to meet these plans. I think the knife is contained in the cow, it takes a lot more money to follow the strategy, secure in each budget, so that the informed promises and plans described in the number of programmes that have been made to further the country or by the policy of improving jobs, building and increasing education can be developed, strengthening areas. It's the most important thing I've ever had in my life. I will follow up on the budget and keep track of how it will be, how funds will be given to the projects below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u86	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I would like to ask if the Committee discussed the democratic courts that are often held in the national parts of the country, which are being strengthened by parish plans and others. National or national groups are usually made up of the majority of the members of the community. As a unit manager in the old days, we were discussing these democracies, there were not minor members in the administration of national groups, but it is the government of the national body that has a lot to do with how they are assigned to the parish program. In some places, this is a source of special advice, such as cultural advice given at the hands of cultural agreements. I wondered if there was anything discussed in the Committee that needs to be considered to these democracies when the national body has increased roles and issues in the administration, that these governments are somehow ordered both the majority and the minor religions of the rural community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u87	Madam President. That was a very good point. Sadly, this friendship on the subject did not come up with a discussion on the job board. This is a big deal, for, of course, the arrival of political elected representatives to share the funds that come to the national community for the purpose of a huge deal. These are often considerable amounts of money, which is important in the way they are treated. Like what? A senator mentions more than not a strong political factor in the administration of the national body, and I may not have thought of the arrival of less parts of the situation as to what was not guaranteed when financial resources were being taken care of. Of course, this is different, such as by cultural agreements that advertise it as a source of strength and control. I think it is quite right to review the factors that concern the way the money is given, that it will be useful, and that loyalty is a cross-class approach, since there will be a democratic work in that sector. Of course, each body member is acting as a representative of all classes on the budget, and while it is noted, the part is less able to make adjustments that increase and strengthen democratic funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u88	Madam President. I'm just going to come into this discussion, which is primarily focused on the fact that this is a uniting process and is making a process clear. This includes the multi-developed national conventions, a project that has been implemented in the past government and has proved to be very good, and we have discussed very much and often in terms of the budget. It has been necessary to fight for the crowns that go in there, and the intention of a former government was to place considerable money on this project, which has, unfortunately, not gone by the current government. It is fine and good for us to see that the procedures, or those that turn toward the control group and process, and so on, will be placed in some fixed frame, which is based on the experience we already gain. But there are concerns, at least I have them, especially when it comes to the cultural agreements. It was controversial to put all these contracts together under the brand-new program ◯. I think that the projects are clearly starting to suffer now and that is primarily with the budgets to do so. The democracy that was being discussed earlier is one of the differences, the way it's lived with each other, the districts for itself, or the territory of those who see this, which I can't remember right now. In my territory, it is part of the Eyll and the East Bridge that have taken care of this. As a result of the cutback on this project, it is that cultural agents are very largely in half positions, and I have received an ear transplant that results in less intensive cooperation and less emphasis on their work than we want. I must say, though, that a pleasant event occurred Friday at Akureyri. At that time, I was strengthened by the northern edifice fund that succeeded from the EI and the Eyjafjörður growth contract under that name, the National Displacement Fund. There were 168 applications and 93 of them received a cultural project grant, 15 in culture stock and management grants and 60 applications were received into the job development and innovation of the fund. It was a pleasure to see that in that part there were quite some women who have been less in recent years. The distribution was 82 million. K. In this cultural, innovation, and professional development project, this was a very enjoyable and happy moment. It can be better if it's enough. If this is to be as fertile as intended, i.e. All the factors that are under there, of course, need to be put in for more money. It's not just me, there's a lot of other people who worry that once it's put under one hat, something's gonna get away. It seems that the cultural function is what remains first of all, at least Here we go. So we need to apply this even more closely now when we are about to reexamine the budget, since the council has become so far away. I think we need to stand firm in our feet if we want to see these strengths and this support and this job in our rural society, which they are so much satisfied with themselves and have repeatedly declared, including... meetings with a financial committee who wanted to gain this added money and who have had certain doubts about some of the things that have been done in the past and about the current government. Regarding the promotion of the process by enforcing it in law, it's fine in itself, but we need to consider how to support and strengthen the culture in this part so that cultural agents can be active throughout the country for more than half a job, for as we know and clearly discovered in Akureyri on Friday, there is a huge number of people who are applying for this and out of it are developing all kinds of vegetation that actually strengthen and support monopolitizing work territory. I think this is one of the things that can survive in the more scattered areas of the country, that people can take advantage of opportunities like those that can be found through this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u89	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-changing motion to legalize new investors in Iceland. This is the opinion of more than a part of the employment committee. The committee again discussed the matter after the second. At her meeting came even. Ragnheiður E. Árnadóttir, Industrial and Business Ministers, and Ingvar Pétur the son of Guðbjörnsson, assistant minister of Ministers, Ingvi Már Pálsson and others. A general discussion of the matter was published on the purpose of the NGOs, the presupposes for their services, and what analysis needs to be made in order to justify ourselves. Average objective of the bill according to Article 1. is promoting Iceland's competitiveness. The majority believe that there is also a need to be careful that the services of this element do not concern the over-competitive position of an enterprise that is already operating here. For example, if a large manufacturer on tomatoes was to get indiscriminately involved in the exporting of that product, he would later need to change his system and make a home on the domestic market, this could greatly disturb the position of the national manufacturer. 12th degree. The bill discusses the evaluation of investment projects. Two. the role of the committee that accepts and deals with an application for incarceration is outlined in this article. It suggests that the Committee may request an independent specialist to evaluate investment projects and to work on other information that is needed before accepting an application. The more part feels that under the fall of information on the impact of investment projects on already existing activities in the country. The rest of the section suggests we're 12. is added to the directive that the Committee on the Isthmientation should provide assessment of the Agency's impact on structural development and the potential impact on job life. It is among the objectives of the bill that the price agreement for urban development, compare with Article 1. It is. If the bill is adjusted to the point that the law would be the responsibility of the Agency to determine if the relevant requisite agreement would trust, promote employment and promote the innovation of employment. A major point is that in a dating based program under the Committee of 143th, the legislature of the Council, a special section of the Senate is dedicated to a new investment in employment. The committee received a memo from a Based Office that says that it needs to assess the impact of investment on near future society, both the number of jobs and their composition. They would need to assess the impact on women's jobs and affect the number of jobs for those with advanced education and university education. In addition, a projections for total population growth and the impact of increasing demand for private and public services would be made. The overall impact on the local community would need to be examined. The review form of the Agency is presented as a follow-up with the opinion of the Agency and indicates the conclusion of taking into account the guidelines of Article 4. Regulations for Based on Council No. 347/1200, which says: (b) What will be considered in the next article? Special care should be taken to ensure that the contribution of the Agency to enterprises and individuals, as well as to the competitiveness of other employment companies in the country, is being observed. It agrees with the fact that the Agency's assessment of investment agreements should be conducted and viewed in the above and impact on the job area. Commenting on the matter, comments were made by the tax authorities, which specifically asked that it would be desirable to be liked, as the bill assumes to be the best taxpayer. The majority suggest that the Ministry and the tax authorities work together to facilitate tax management. Other changes that the greater part suggests on the bill are as follows: In 1st. Section 12. it is recommended that the applicant be shown that inaccessible investments will not be profitable. The greater part suggests that this issue will be removed, not an end to a racer, granting relics under this premise. However, there is a requirement for this in d-d-dimer 5. to demonstrate that it is a prerequisite for the reality of investment projects in this country. It is then proposed that the translation article aimed at measuring that investment agreements in accordance with EU Regulation on general population access (GBER) are not dependent on the EFTA (EU) approval. The application of the rules of this Regulation depends, not on its entry into national rights, but on its adoption into the EEA Convention. Therefore, the GBER Regulation does not have to implement, as usual, but it is a rule from a general rule against government granting grants that the government can use if it votes. This Regulation requires rights which governments can depend on on the general condition of the reporting to ESA. The EEA Convention has been set up with the decision made by the European Commission No. 152/2017 from 27 June 2014 it can be applied on land regardless of ESA consent. The majority of them believe that it is important that financial support be ensured for assessment and analysis at Article 12. The bill, whether it is available for a construction agency or a committee according to Article 11. The bill. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes provided by the Committee's Committee. Under these publications. Councilmen Haraldur son of Benediktsson, prehistoric Jón Gunnarsson, Director Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, advance, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, in advance, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir. This is accompanied by a memo published by the Building Office.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u90	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. paritaprevir Björt Ólafsdóttir, i.e. My committee's involvement in a part of the employment network on bill for legalisation of invigorating to new investments in Iceland. The aforementioned opinion reads, by permission of the president: The main part is not agreed with the arrangement of the bill, i.e. to provide certain new associates or tasks including wills from the current tax and tax laws. This can affect the competitiveness of the enterprises that are active in this country and that have to be legal in terms of paying taxes and fees and meeting various other legal obligations. In order for market competition and equality to exist, everyone must walk, that environment is not created by involving some companies at the expense of others. The types of infrastructure that all depend on, including companies that receive pleasure, are largely costed by taxes and companies and individuals who do not get special votes over others. In order to maintain the level of equality as well as to promote progress and increase the level of employment, the lower part considers that the tax rate should be further maintained and that the environment for business and business is favourable enough to consider it ideal for an enterprise to be involved in business. So it is my opinion that the rules that have laid the basis for this belief are out of harmony with the real world of Icelandic society. It should be noted that in an effort to support urban development through the inquisitiveness towards enterprises, there are some factors that include: you are based on the so-called based map of ESAs. The building card covers the whole country outside the capital area. In spite of this, most companies who have been revered by law from the Council are located in the South and Southwestern countries, i.e. not at sites considered fragile or considered special injections beyond other areas. However, the expansion of the country's settlement has been expressed as the leading evidence for the granting of all invigorating to new investors here in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u91	Madam President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-to-be bill-authorized licence of registered vehicles, from a professional driving committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for a number of people to meet. The bill suggests that there will be a new total law on renting registered vehicles based somewhat on the current rental law, No. 64/2000. The bill aims to strengthen the law code on driving organs, simple rules about them, and at the same time to improve monitoring the function. The value of the bill is rented on registered vehicles for employment, without a driver. The bill covers all types of registered vehicles, such as wheel trailers and tent carts. At the same time, the bill says it reaches private terms, i.e. when individuals hire their vehicles by means of another person (sometimes referred to as a motif). In order to run a driver's car rent, according to the requirements of the bill, a Community employment permit is needed, and a positive report is also needed from a local company where a car driver's rent will have a fixed work station. It is requested that the work permit for driving a car will be non-term but according to the current law, allowing for five years. Those who have a permit now retain its duration and at the end of this period shall apply for a new non-term permission. The bill contains additional surveillance clearances for a walking agency that receives e.g. warrant has been established at chapters 10 and 11. to cancel the work permit, have a field scan and a day-to-day fine. It is also recommended that the competent authority inform the Agency of the proposed changes in function. Six. it is recommended that the duties of a driver's car rent should be carried out under a range of instructions not clearly stated in the current law, such as that renting vehicles that are not registered in a CA class and that it is not permitted to rent out a vehicle's views unless it has a legal inspection. In the 9th. is a new recommendation designed to create extravasation when a person hires a vehicle to another person through communication (aloney). This is an exception from a 2 mgr. Section 6. where the permit holder is required to be the owner of the outlet vehicle. According to Article 9. is (each) allowed to rent out two vehicles that are registered on their social security number and that will allow the intermediate to obtain a permit in the OSD, but without the need for local government reviews, it is not expected that private storage will be a site for vehicles. Privacy also has to be met by terms of Article 4. the bill that contains a range of conditions of the application procedure, such as valid employment guarantees. Four and five. Count 9. It is stated that private roommates should ensure that obtained vehicles are registered to the Group of Use, have a legal central check, that there is commitment and that vehicles have maintenance and monitoring and are having a condition that takes time and time. The commission is that the permit holder is responsible for the sum of the total value of the registered vehicle, i.e. not just for a sum of fees. In the 9th. it is assumed that a metabolite (located) will negotiate with a landlord (an individual who owns the car) and with a landlord, and therefore the vehicle will be rented and extended, and they will be solely responsible for the condition of the rented vehicle. The committee suggests a change of 7 mg. Count 9. In the event that there will be a debt and a return of merit tax, it will be held in accordance with the credit laws. Then it depends on a contract relationship each time, who's a strain to pay a merit tax. The committee points out that the bill does not interfere with the range of income that a person can earn without paying a $1 billion bill. K. As a result of this discussion, the commission noted that rentals operate in a way that resembled the activities of companies who engage in property mines under financial law. Bank accounts, certificates of deposit, or other valuable personal property may be used as a means of rent. It was discussed to attribute main activities to the Marketing Authorisation under the financial law. In terms of financial enterprises such as minimum-own capital, suitable managers, monitoring fees and fiscal taxes are subject to a wide range of activities that are under the supervision of the Commission. The terms of the bill were stated to further establish this difference, i.e. that there are conflicting demands for similar companies. The Commission pointed out on the basis of the Ministry that the future vision of the FESEC was that companies who were employed in property won't need the Commission's license. The Commission feels that it is reasonable to consider changes in law in order to reduce discrepancies and to direct it to the Ministry of Economics and Economics. In view of the above, the committee feels that it is normal to narrow the definition of the term "fiction enterprise" to 2.g. the bill, adding the requirement for renting less often. It was noted on the subject that there were complaints about the construction of cars and the possibility of renting renters to monitor their condition. On behalf of the Ministry it was noted that if the bill becomes the law, the CREEP will be reviewed, including I'm looking at rent terms. It was also noted that there is a decision-making committee based on the approval of the Ministry, the Neighbour Association, and the Travel Service Association, where it can be referred to as being a member of the tourist organisation. The Commission expects the Council and Council of 2013/11/EU from 21 May 2013 to address the issues of consumers outside the courts (ADRs) and the Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 524/2013 of the electronic management of issues for goods or online services (ODRs) will be implemented into Icelandic correctly. Once this has been done, the decision - making committee may address issues regardless of the role of tourism. The bill does not contain a law on the intention of paying cash for rentals, but it is under the law on the product charge of motor vehicles, fuel, etc. A discussion of the matter considered also the application of motorcycles, but at a closer look, it was thought to be impregnable. No data are available on CO. 2 - Expiration of motorcycles, while the parking rate for human vehicles is based on that emissions. It was noted that at present there is an overall review of the financial and economic status of driving vehicles on the remuneration environment. The committee recommends that wheels can also be rented from such public fees in line with the appeals of other types of automobiles. The Commission suggests several changes to the bill in addition to the above: The Committee proposes correction of 2 mg. 1st par, 2 mgr. Section 6. and 1st. Section 12. that, instead of the term "missible" capital or financing business, the term will be used using the term "said loan company" which is in accordance with the financial law. It is also suggested that if a driver's carpentry opens a branch, a positive report from a local government should also be obtained, as when applying for a permit. It is suggested that there be additional licences for driving renters to rent out vehicles with a valid work permit and then the contract between companies will be available for those renting. The committee proposes a change to the second issue 4 mg. Section 4. and on a validation article. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in the committee's opinion. Under the view of this magazine, Sæmundsson's editor, Kristján L. Möller, Chairman Jón Gunnarsson, Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, Haraldur Benediktsson, Friðriksson, Róbert Marshall, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u92	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Commission's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize the house - to - house subsidies, No. 78/2002, with subsequent changes from a professional committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a meeting with Ingvi Pá Pálsson from the Department of Employment and Development. This committee received reviews of the case from graffiti, the National Institutes of Farmers, Gravitation Towns, the Power Farms of West, Rúnar Lárusson, Coal power, the Coalitions of Professional Life and Company in cold areas. The bill is suggested to complete the implementation of changes proposed by the Worker's Department of Industrial Affairs (WCC) in a December 2011 report. The work group began following the approval of the government on April 5, 2011, for the Agency to work in cold areas to find ways to lower and level the cost of house warming. Some suggestions have already been made for the workgroup. It is suggested that transport and distribution of electricity for housing of housing houses will be fully subsidized by those who cannot have full heating. In the treatment of the matter, it was concluded that the cost of building public buildings in cold areas should also be covered. The Commission points out that the cost of such a change has not been accurately estimated, but it is considered that he can obtain up to twice the cost of subsidies according to the bill. The committee suggests a change in the bill, which involves changing the word, "El oil, to 0-fuel, at two places in line with the rest of the bill's terms. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following adjustment indicated on the document. Under the heading of this publication, however, this publication is under consideration. Councilmen Kristján L. Möller, senior guide, Jón Gunnarsson, Chairman of Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Róbert Marshall, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Thorja Sæmundsson and Egilsdóttir Eglílsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u93	Madam President. I'd like to say a few words about the subject that is here, and the particular opinion that has been recommended and understood. It is now being suggested that the transport of electrical energy to the heating of home housing will be fully subsidized by those who are not able to have full heating and that is a good case. To date, however, we are far away from where the same cost of energy is around the country. Many areas still have high house - to - house expenses and electricity costs and have a long way to go. Of course, this needs to be corrected. You must take greater steps in this regard. The commission shows that this work began following an approved previous government, i.e. during the last term, April 5, 2011, that worked with the European Union of rural society, seeking ways to lower and level the cost of house warming in cold areas. There were excellent suggestions from a working group and, in part, has been implemented. But as I'm saying, it's still a long way off so that energy costs can be said to have been leveled between the population. In this context, the decline in energy taxes was 1.5 billion, which the government decided to do for large companies from the next year on. If people had continued to use the possibility of adding energy taxes to big companies, there would have been a number of things that could have been done for them, 1.5 billion. I believe it is only natural for a major country to have an assignment to level the cost of energy among the population. I think it's normal and fall under community responsibility to do so. This indicates that public building costs should be balanced in cold areas, that these costs should be considered. I agree with it, and I can mention, for example, that a large school structure such as Nupur in Animal Park, who served that role at the time, is now rented from the government to a private agency that uses the hosting facility, a hotel in the summer. Depends on how large the cost of energy is on that home. To be sure, similar examples abound in cold areas. So I think it is absolutely timely that the equation that continues to be in cold areas also applies to such public buildings, which, for example, have sometimes been very difficult to come in use after they have served their function because it is so expensive to fire them if one is planning to use the facility for transportation. This is what I wanted to do in this matter. We are on the move, but we need to walk much safer steps in order to complete the cost of energy for all the people of the country, and that's why we need money. The State must act to show its will by taxing those who can contribute to this equation, such as the big business, and by making donations for each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u94	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a commission on the bill to legalize real estate and command, as well as a change of plans. The issue discussed is presented in the bill of 30 articles and in the following paragraph 27 pages of this magazine. In this background, I am primarily going to refer to the committee's opinion and comment on a few points. The nominee is quite long, and I think it is unnecessary to read it because it already lies in the Senate documents. Such bill has happened several times before the council, but this time it is submitted in whole, with a collective report that may appear on its own as an explanation of these laws. The bill suggests some changes in the rules of real estate education, i.e. that real estate dealers should complete 90 units of education, which is half a test for a BA or BS test at university. I point out in the context that many real estate dealers are business experts, lawyers and accountants, or have similar education. High levels of tests are required by students to be tired in order to qualify for legalization. There's a couple of changes in the bill. One of the great points discussed in the reviews and the above committees was the contractor's operations on real estate halls, that it was clear that the location of contractors was established, and that it was tried to narrow down so that a clear recruitment relationship was involved. Also, a real estate agent couldn't sell without a little less of a part of his operation. In this context, it can be noted that a real estate salesman should be careful to protect both parties, buyers, and sellers, completely and carefully, and to care for handling his tasks, such as good business practices. The committee emphasizes the importance of this, pointing out that in paragraph 15. A real estate agent is required to assist both owners, sellers, and buyers, and to protect their rightful interests, as well as to conduct his work in accordance with good business practices. Under it the committee wants to take and repeat. It was noted that there has been some evidence of people with a record of criminal activity serving as sales agents. The committee believes that it is important for consumers to be able to trust that those doing these activities are without criminal record because of certain offenses, in the same way as law-enforced real estate dealers. Hence, the committee suggests that this requirement be added to 2 mg. Section 8. the bill, as it currently stands, and where property sales authority is outlined to hide a particular task to lawmen. Business fee. It came forward to show that a real estate dealer is forbidden to separate himself from the data provider, which is a natural part of a contract to buy and sell real estate. The committee rejoices that there has been an improvement in the right relationships between realtors, sellers, and buyers with a change in word and detailed explanation for a report with the existing bill, and the changes in order to eliminate the uncertainty of the administrative fees in real estate exchanges that have been involved in the discussion. Similarly, the service rendered should always be paid as a final cost of worth taxation, to be made clear, so that those paying for the ministry should know the final price of an extra tax. The bill suggests that the product will be the sole right of the real estate dealer to pass through the sale of non-participants in the current law. It is noted that real - estate dealers can continue to care for these jobs, although they do not agree with their private rights. It is the Commission's assessment that this provision is an improvement, as it is difficult to see that the education and experience of real estate dealers give them more expertise in sales of employment companies than in others, such as accountants and business experts. There was a view that with these changes, there was an exchange between the sales of nonpartal enterprises. There is a little discussion on how financial companies are in the committee's opinion. It was noted that there was some inaccuracies in the law as to the authority of financial companies and other persons who have owned dues for sale of property. The banks are not bound by any of the rules of the bill. The committee points out that a financial enterprise that sells its assets is not considered to be a real estate dealer in the sense of the law, so it does not fall under the law. However, in the event that real estates are committed to selling property for financial companies, the law is fully in force. It would be possible to adjust the obligation to further a financial enterprise to sell real estates that are acquired by financial companies, but this does not depend on the bill discussed here. This bill includes a language that has actually been judged in the Supreme Court, i.e. It's an obligation to associate the real estate dealer and become a change in surveillance. I refer to the committee and the bill in that regard. Also, because of the sale of property sources and those linked to them, ordinances are presented. In an amendment made by the Committee that a real estate salesman is prohibited from buying and selling property if he or his partner, employee or partner is its owner or a significant part of the real estate, b) he is or has been a partner owner, duty or mother owner in a bone line or other joint or is linked in the same way to a owner's adoption, c) is linked to a representative or agent by the way of a b-com or otherwise there are circumstances that are designed to draw his impartiality into question correctly. This is a series of incompetent purposes so that the buyer and seller know for sure that there is no abnormal veneer. I also refer to adjustments. At one point in the transition, it is said that a real estate agent should completely settle his work, such as good business practices and protocols. Since obligation is canceled, there is no legal code for the property trade. However, there is no basis for the fact that real estate dealers work and have the moral code that real estate dealers agree to, but also, real estate dealers can introduce their own code of ethics. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes already available. 1235 making a change. Under this bill, the following members of the Economic and Business Committee (ECC) of April 22, 2015: Chairman Frosti Sigurjónsson, Director of Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Specialist Willum Þórsson Þrsson, Lineik Sævarsdóttir Anna, Steingrímsson, Áslaug María Friðriksdóttir, Sigirirur on. Andersen, in advance, and the Stealggrimur J. Sigfússon, due notice. The Árni Páll Árnason was absent from the case. All of them are why. All council members. I don't think I have my case any further until now, and I continue to refer to the committee's opinion and direction of change. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u95	Madam President. As noted in the fine speech of a prominent speaker, I am writing under the committee's opinion on this subject in advance. I'm going to make a brief explanation for him. This is an old friend traveling here. We, who have been here for a few years, know this bill. It's been rescinded and stranded here, not an easy way through the council. It's based on committee work and an opinion of this law book back to 2006, 2007, and 2008, if I remember correctly. Since then, it has been moved to the council. At last, in my opinion, there has been quite a success in winning this case. The committee has contributed a considerable amount of work, and especially a spokesman for the Commission, who had a history of the case. So it's time that it would be a sin if you were not able to complete it on this road and had to deal with it again during the next council or the coming council. I believe all the work the committee did and the adjustments presented here greatly improve. All the major problems and the most frequent warnings have been dealt with by people who are familiar with this market and business and who have established the committee. These adjustments indicate that such cases have been tried as far as possible. First of all, what comes mainly to my notice is the question of an underdevelopment to the union of real estate dealers. As an authority went over them, it is really the end point of this bill that the requiredness of the watch will be arranged in a certain way. True, it is effective, and many would believe it to be a normal response to the approval of the General and the Supreme Court's court, which eventually concluded that the membership of the real estate retailor, as it is now under law, does not meet the regulations of the Constitution. But it is good to mark them when both an agent's opinion and this Supreme Court state that he is not a full court of law that obligatoryly obligatory that a member of this kind cannot go up to the Constitution, but it is absolutely clear that there are very high standards for how the legislation on such a duty is designed, how the justification for the obligation is reasoned, and how it is permissible, to have enough evidence for the rich public interests needed to justify the obligation. Of course, we considered an obligation that Iceland's law firm and other specific company of lawyers in the country based on such an arrangement. She's been considered up, at least. She has not yet been challenged, for it is very thorough and clear as to the purpose of that required service. I feel this way, so I kept my perspective on the Committee that there would be an option to correct the mistakes that were actually made by the legislation at the Council of 2004. It turned out that there were changes actually made in the activities of the Generals that made the probable decision, not the bill itself, as it originally was. So the General changed the case so that it weakened rather than strengthened the argument that a mandatory arrangement was the best way to achieve the target and, of course, is still aimed at this law, that the setting of this important business is well organized, where property is often in the hands of the biggest investments of the country's average home during its lifetime, i.e. Real estate. Of course, it should be clear that, on the basis of that obligation, the rich interests of the public are being cared for, and through it, monitoring or other such activities should be made so that it is well cared for and that this arrangement will be carried out accordingly. I'm aware that I'm in my part with this view. So I'm not going to let it happen in itself that I'm not doing this, but this is one of the reasons why I have this notice. I think it's normal and right for him to come out here. He is in line with what a real estate dealer would have chosen to be the result of the case, although I allow myself to conclude that they are reasonably at peace with the bill as it has become. There are several other factors to consider, in my opinion, on the bill in part, but even better, with the changes in the Economic and Business Committee, i.e. What is involved in the construction or construction of property companies and real estate sales that are handled by others other than the legal real estate agent. One way is by making adjustments to 8 pars. where it is clearly stated that a real estate salesman himself must carry out all the tasks of his legal authority that are covered in the relevant section of the law as well as those that he is never authorized to delegate to other parties, i.e. all major document makings, sales contracts, sales records, campaigns, advice, etc. Then there is the law that those who do this work, even though they are not the legal people, have an unscrupulous reputation and have not been judged for violations of legal requirements for a certain law. Finally, there was a good discussion of ethics and the change that results from decommissioning an obligation to the union of real estate dealers. The social policy of real estate sales would no longer be binding in that sense for all members and not for those who choose to stand outside the society. Nevertheless, the Commission concluded that it is important to ensure that real - estate dealers should do their jobs fully, such as good business practices and ethical standards. I view it as obvious, therefore, that real-estate halls must operate according to ethical standards, and it is likely to be the standard of society in general, but in some cases the result may be that in some case they are employed by a moral code or by some other means. I will do enough to mention these main points that I believe are relevant to these topics and to repeat that I believe it is very desirable for the Council to complete a discussion on this subject. Actually, we'd better get a little bored with some of them. I think this case has been handled as well as important that it gets its complete payment here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u96	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize climate change laws, No. 70/2012, with subsequent changes. The committee discussed the matter and found a number of reporters I'm not going to read here and refer to the committee's opinion. The bill suggests changes in climate laws, No. 70/2012, with subsequent changes, all due to Iceland's international cooperation through the EEA Convention. First, the directives for carbon dioxide storage and public purchases of eco-friendly and energy-efficient vehicles are proposed. Secondly, the change in the reference amount of emissions per Article 3mg. 14th par. The law, which covers parties which are excluded from the European Commission's standards of release. The amount of money must be changed every year so that it depends on the budget. Third, a new provision is proposed to be added to the regulations for the completion of Regulation (EU) No 37/2010. 421/2014, which includes the modified emissions-release commercial domains involved in flying drivers. This means that the number of fliers reporting this country's emissions will be reduced considerably. The change is temporary until December 31, 2016. I'm going to discuss more on these teams as briefly as I can, but it's a very rare opinion. A- force 3. the bill is proposed to be implemented by Directive 2009/31/EC for the disposal and storage of carbon dioxide in aquifers. The evaluation of the Environment and Resource Ministry is best planned for implementation of the directive so that a general ban will be imposed on substitution and storage of carbon dioxide in this country, but with the authority for research and development projects where it is intended to store less than 100 kilotons of carbon dioxide. According to the B Team 5. The bill is to be revised in no later than 2020. The method of induction of the directive is of importance to the experimental projects that Energy Reykjavík has been working on, the CarbFix project, where carbon dioxide is mixed with water and is pumped into aquifers at a depth of 500 yards in the form of carbonic acid where it binds. Studies have shown that within one year of a dejected test, about 80 to 90% of carbon dioxide is bound into salts and crystallines in minerals and thus stored. PGE has also been working on another project, the SulFix project, where sulfur dioxide is pumped down in a manner similar to that of the earth. The directive, like tracer to the bill, appears to refer to geological conditions that are quite different from Icelandic conditions. It appeared to the view that the CarbFix project fell outside the set of standard directive 2009/31/EC and hence the bill where the method used to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the project is different from that of the directive, i.e. when you inject carbon dioxide. However, the CarbFix project is a test project and is therefore subject to Article 2.mg. a-arms 3. The bill. It is also clear in the opinion of the Committee that definition 1st paragraph. the bill means that it includes sub-institution and storage, i.e. a single injection without storage does not fall below. The committee noted that the project had been successful, as mentioned above, so it would likely have been pumped more than 100 kilotons of carbon dioxide by 2020. The Commission received this report that the Environment and Resource Minister had appointed a committee that would have the role of monitoring progress and changes in EU sub-situation and storage of carbon dioxide and is the Commission intended to provide the minister with a prime measure in the mid-1969, which aims to allow the use of gas and storage of carbon dioxide, in accordance with Icelandic conditions. The Committee is a member of the Ministry, the EEA and Power Department of Reykjavík. A review of Directive 2009/31/EC is already under way in the EU, and it is important that at the time of work the Icelandic views will be expressed, which will take into account the geological situation in this country so that tasks in this field do not meet all the burdensome requirements that may not be required in this country. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important that the results are initially delayed to avoid negative effects on the above tasks and possibly to avoid subsequent carbon dioxide depletion. The official purchase of eco-friendly and energy-efficient vehicles is presented in Article 3. the bill to implement a 2009/33/EC directive to promote the use of clean and energy efficient vehicles. This law includes public members as defined in Article 3. Law on Public Shopping, No. 84/2007. It is suggested that physical laws be legalized in the laws on climate, but in general there are laws on public shopping legalized in that law. The commission stated that this was the result of the three advisers of 2009/33/EC Directive. In general, the Commission's opinion is that there are only one laws that govern public shopping so that those in the law can know where to look to learn the rules of shopping. However, to the Commission it also stated that a review of the official purchase law in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs is also under way and points out that in this review there is a need to consider whether it is valid that the rules on climate or public shopping will remain permanent. The majority will await the conclusion of this review and thus suggest that this will be in the climate law. It was noted to the Committee that it was unclear whether b-joins 3. the bill is a tool for the Power System of Reykjavík, where much of the community's work can be balanced to private functioning, as spoken of in 2 mg. Section 3. the management of public shopping. The majority of the data shows that PGE falls under the regulations of shopping institutions responsible for supplying water supply, energy supply, transport and communication, no. 755/2007. The protocol is supported in 3 mg. 7. the management of public shopping, but as indicated by 2 mg. The same articles apply to laws other than regulations from XIV. and XV. does not administer to persons in accordance with Regulation No 37/2010: 755/2007. The majority, however, point to the importance of being guided by environmental views by public members and companies of the public interest in their trade. Regarding the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, the majority of the segments suggest the change in the bill to add the provisional regulations laid down by Article 4. A contract between Iceland and the European Union and its member countries, on the other hand, on the involvement of Iceland in common on Iceland's commitments, the European Union and its Member States during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Treaty is printed as a copy of the commission. Iceland, the European Union, its Member States and Croatia published a joint declaration at the end of 2012 at the end of the publication of the Doha conversion, of the EU's plans to meet commitments together during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, dated 2013/03/2020. The declaration states that the countries will fulfill their commitments during the second period of the Kyoto Protocol in accordance with Article 1. Section 4. The book at home to the accounting to meet commitments according to Article 3. among them. The Icelandic government began a formal negotiation with the European Union in March 2014 with regard to the share of Iceland in the common countries during the second Kyoto Protocol period. These negotiations ended in May 2014 with a contract signed between Iceland and the European Union and its Member States on the involvement of Iceland in common activities on commitments between Iceland, the European Union and its Member States and the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The contract is expected to be signed in the near future. A further consideration of the subtraction of the contract, which was available in mid - January 2015, was made by governments to provide Article 4. The terms of the contract in this country and contributes to the request of the Environment and Resource Ministry. According to 1st mg. This law is the EU types referred to in Annex 1 of the Convention binding for Iceland, which has to do with commitments to the Kyoto Protocol and is particularly about technical rules on climate accounting and deadlines, as discussed in the Treaty itself. According to Article 6, a special committee on common matters. The agreement can, by its decision-making, add the EU to the above-mentioned annex. The committee to appoint representatives of the Convention, i.e. Member States and Iceland, according to 2 mg. Section 6. make decisions with agreement. That means no action has been made in Iceland unless the U.S. councilman accepts it. This is stated in 4 mg. Section 4. The agreement is that if the change in an Annex to the Convention calls for changes in Iceland's legislation to make such changes, the time it takes for Iceland to accept the changes and the need to ensure that the Kyoto Protocol requirements and decisions are met. The majority suggest that the bill be approved with the foretold change provided in a separate document. In view of this, Höskuldur Þórhallsson, chairman and authority, Einarsson, Birgir the son of the Ármannsson, Elín Hirst, and Vilhjálmur the Jón of ÞórÓlafsson who was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u97	President. I'm here recommending the opinion of my share of the Environment and Transport Committee on a bill to correct climate change laws. In itself, the main policy is thought to be that the greater part of the committee is consistent, with the view that Iceland should be taken in the air and that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced to the maximum possible extent. However, there is one thing that we especially want to draw forward, and I'm going to make an explanation, and it really involves the adjustment of the bill and is about the income policy of the climate fund. Laws in December 2014, about the basis for the budget for the current year, changed the climate Fund. We suggest that the fund has changed to its former outlook. On the basis of the change presented here, a market climatic fund, which is then half of the Icelandic government's income for sale of emissions at auction. Climate Fund is then expected to support projects that can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland, adaptation to climate change and increase the public's knowledge of human climate change. This is in line with what is normally done to the income that European countries receive for emissions and is an attempt to green economics, as it were, and to support the development of both science and technology on climate - related developments. As a result of this view, we suggest a change in the form of the material, and that is what we see here, the Svandís of Sons Svavarsdóttir, who is the chairman of a minor opinion, and Katrín Júlíusdóttir and Róbert Marshall, all of whom have been raised. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u98	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct chemical law change, No. 61/2013. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a number of commentators. I refer to the committee's opinion so I don't have to list all of them. The bill suggests changes in chemical law, No. 61/2013. The bill consists of a first reexamination of chemical laws from their introduction in April 2013. This includes changes due to the transfer of electronic and electronic devices from the EEA to the Agency and its implementation of the EEA types as well as its legislation on the induction and preparation of the EEA types that will have to be implemented on the basis of the law. The law and bill are very technical and include the introduction of a number of EEA types in which the legal environment of this country takes very much account of the EU types. The bill suggests the implementation of the European Parliament and Council 2009/126/EB by II. In-party recovery of gas vapor during fuel uptake for motor vehicles at gas stations The directive's aim is to reduce air pollution and improve air quality by reducing gas emissions. The directive includes the requirement for steam disposal at gas stations. All new gas stations will have to be equipped with steam-launching equipment. The gas stations undergoing major reimbursement, where annual sales exceed 500 thousand litres per year, will also need such equipment as when a gas station is placed under an apartment facility or a work area where annual gas sales are more than 100,000 litres per year, one of which is in the country. Then, on December 31, 2018, any gas station that sells more than 3 million gallons [3 million L] a year will need to install steam storage equipment, which will take value against larger gas stations. According to the bill, four gas stations in this country sell more than 3 million gallons [3 million L] of gasoline each year, and at these stations, necessary equipment has been installed or standing to install. A fuel dealer at most of the gas stations in this country will not reach 500 thousand litres a year and so these rules will not reach them. The number of rural gas stations does not reach this sale, so the bill should not affect the oil community services in the scattered areas. Other gas stations with more than 500 thousand gallons per year will only have to install steam vapors for major renewal. The committee had something to do with the subject of a professional observatory. 19th degree. The bill is submitted to a change of 3 mg. 43. g. The law, the witnesses. In the case of the change, it is suggested that foreign persons, who have received a witness or were designated as judges in another country in the EEA, be able to carry out witnesses in this country. The committee stated that 43 C.E. The law would be inert here on a land that hasn't been able to establish a local witness. The topic of prognostic factors has already been discussed by the Committee and found that these issues are difficult to deal with, including for the smallest market in the country. The change suggested in the bill opens up the entrance of a foreign witness to the country. The committee proposes the adjustment of the arrangement to remove the word of ◯rabs to be taken away. By doing so, the legal authority in Iceland can appoint a foreign party as its carer, but it is not limited to a member of a foreign body of another state. This could potentially reduce the cost of certification. The Committee's review made comments at the 30th paragraph. The bill for the conversion of 57th par. The law will note changes to stop the marketing product for a short time. Is it important that the Agency can quickly stop the marketing of products when it is suspected that the product does not meet the requirements of the law or the regulations set out on the basis of them. To this end, the protest court is dismissed according to Article 13. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993. Clearly, the temporary discontinuation of the marketing product is a burdensome control decision. However, prior to making such a decision, important public interest may be involved in a very dangerous case, requiring the quick response of the Rapporteur. In this regard the Commission points out that the decision to stop the marketing of products for a short time is an administrative decision in the sense of 2 mg. 1st par. Government law. In this way, other laws of the law apply to the decision to stop the marketing of products for a short time, including study rule 10 gr. and moderate rule 12. The rule of the investigation means that the government should carefully investigate matters before making a decision. Has the rule of protestually been closely related to the study rule, where it is hard to see how governance can fully examine matters without hearing the viewpoint of the decision-makers. The average rule means that a government should make only a burdensome decision when there is no less than a legitimate goal to be achieved. The committee feels that it is important to make the above rules and that the use of measures will be moderate. For the Committee it was noted that the bill was not sent to key stakeholders for the processing of the environmental and resource services. Notes to the bill show that it has been worked in collaboration with the Agency and the Agency but that the bill has not been put in a general narrative process and has not been sent to the counsel of anyone other than these two because it was not considered to be a special need to send it to counsel other people, especially where consultations had taken place in earlier stages, due to preparation for the introduction of the EEA types involved by the bill. However, VI shows. in general comments to the bill that it affects both the public and the business of the country where it has to do with new duties that an enterprise must meet, but the duties due to Iceland's commitments are due to the EEA agreement. The Guidebook on the preparation and release of a law-enforcement project, published by the Ministry of Presidency, says that it is desirable to consult with stakeholders and the general public in making a more important prime project. As to the importance of bills, it may be noted, among other things, that individual responsibilities, activities, rural areas, etc. are subject to new responsibilities. Thus, in view of the Committee, there was reason to present the subject of the bill to stakeholders and to have it in accordance with the views presented in the above manual. In this regard the committee agrees with the comments of stakeholders on the lack of consultation. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: In 19th paragraph, the word "grabs. " ... goout. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson was absent from the case. It's under the heading "Why." The members of Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson, chairman and spokesman, Katrín the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, Einarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur the Benediktsson of Bengoreth, the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u99	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend much discussion about the bill on this subject, which is a change in various laws because of the agreement between state and rural society on the development of music studies. But we are here again in pieces to fulfill any obligation. Although the music schools are a team assignment, the State intervenes in one way or another in order to promote higher education in music and music in general. So I suggest, sir, a respectable president, and I say again that it is time to review music schools and plans for them to study music in general, whether to be a special team member or whether to switch this study, as in other students, in basic studies, and then in college, and then in the State's assignment to take over the advanced education. At the same time, as we have often discussed, a second class of art must be brought in and under basic school and community projects. But there must be a time, a respectable president, to cover music schools and its activities. And all the time, these pieces of cutters don't make us feel good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u100	Madam President. I agree with it. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, Ragnhed, gave a worse speech than a short one. She calls it pieces. Hv. The speaker of the case in his day called this a recall. Another senator called this a piece of shit we're accepting here. I've declared I approve of this bill. But I think it's the highest. A minister spent almost no time talking about it at the time. I thanked them why. Councilman and chairman of the House of Independence, Ragnhek Ríkharðsdóttir, for coming here with the highest hall of Congress. Minister. At that time, I and other members of the council felt that it was not possible to complete the case without the Supreme Court. At least a minister made an attempt to determine his policy on the matter. Two things came out. First of all, he aims for the overall reexamination as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ragnheiður's daughter Ríkharðsdóttir told me earlier that he needed something, that's how I understood him. Similarly, he gave us an idea that made him look beautiful. She went out to set up a special unity in Reykjavík, which would be a university education for highly educated students. That institution would also be working with high school in the country, but I thought that it would in no way solve the future problem in the case we've been here to to swaddle. Idea at the highest. A minister of education is quite excellent, but it comes in addition to the music program in the country. It will require further contributions for music study, and most of all, I want to boil it. I think it'd be great. I think it's the highest, too. Despite this idea, a minister still had no answer to how he intends to correct the permanent status of music. But today's exact situation is that the schools of music hardly know when a month's court will come to see whether they have money to pay. I think it may be said that if it hadn't been to this redundancy, the buttocks as well. A senator mentioned this, headed for bankruptcy, even bankruptcy at a number of schools. So I'd like to agree with what. A senator who spoke earlier that a complete review of this case is needed. But what may matter most is at the top. Ministers present a policy here at the General Assembly that the members of Parliament can reason on, depending on cases agreed or changed and improved. What matters is that there is some line entered into the future, so we who are now in the next few days going to agree on this, perhaps on this day, do not again face the emergency problem of attacking such a form as none of us like it, as well. A senator who spoke for the bill said, just saves the case for a few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u101	A respectable president. We'll talk about 2. A bill to correct medication laws, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes. The bill is intended to implement Directive No. 84/2010 and EU Regulation No. 1235/2010, which together forms a new pharmacovigilance programme. The safety, adverse reactions and reports, registration and processing of the medicinal product are continuously monitored by the Pharmacovigilance Plan. The bill consists of a substitute for the current 19th parr. a recommendation to be made by the Rapporteur and the Marketing Authorisation Holder to record and report adverse reactions of medicinal products will be provided in a new section, VI. Section A, in four articles which are detailed in the pharmacovigilance process, including the obligation of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. The European Medicines Agency proposed several changes in the wording of 2k. the bill aimed at ensuring that the above directive and regulations will be implemented sufficiently in Icelandic rights. The Commission has reviewed and agreed to the Suggestions of the EMA and proposed changes to the bill taking into account them. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes made in a special Senate document, No. 1389. A respectable president. Under these publications, chairman of the Homology Committee, Sigríður Ingadóttir, Ragnheiður, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bradar Níelsson, Arnardóttir Larra Arnardótir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Árnadóttir Thor Aarnadnadótir, all at once. Senators. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson was absent from the court.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u102	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend the Commission's members for a bill to legalize the implementation of a cluster bomb contract. The bill is moved to enable Iceland to validate a 2008 cluster bomb contract by making the appropriate adjustment of valid criminal history in accordance with the terms of that contract. In short, the history of this contract is called a committee study, but to make a long story short, it is possible to say that Iceland has some validation of the contract, finally stands before the door of the review of the contract, and would be inappropriate if Iceland had not validated the contract at the time of its completion. In a committee study, the Commission stated that the main change in criminal law in the bill is a warrant to punish Icelandic people who commit offenses in countries that have not validated the contract. This is a variation from the principle that unless the act of a non - Israelite is considered to be criminal, it will generally not be punished for his actions in a foreign land. The report on the bill shows that consultations were made with a judicial committee in the implementation of the contract in this country. They also say that using the bill, cluster bombs are banned in this country, and the ban also includes practices that fall under the contract and Icelandic people serve abroad. The ban will include Icelandic legislators who have branch offices or jobs abroad. The committee discussed two main questions. On one hand, whether the contract would take on land mines, but it is suggested that the 2001 law already applies to that subject, causing land mines to drop outside the range of these laws. The second point to consider on the committee scene is the matter of objective responsibility by the bill. This is a variation from the principle that finesman, employee, or other on the law are considered to be the basis of responsible legal matters. The Commission reviewed, as the committee's opinion, to further support the development of further measures to facilitate an effective response to violations of cluster charges and to increase the severity of fractions involved in the production or trade. The Commission adopted the views presented in a paper with the bill to lay objective responsibility in this case, but it reiterates the application of the responsible authorities as a basis for the violation of the law. The committee took part in this case and suggested that the bill be passed on as well. Under the heading, all the members of the committee write about the matter. paritaprevir Except for him, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who is an emissary officer of the Committee, declared himself acceptable to the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u103	Madam President. I'm glad on behalf of our left-green side that this bill is now being paid for by the General. My attention was drawn to the fact that Iceland had validated this agreement. In hand, a preparatory conference or first reexamination in Istanbul in the fall, if I recall correctly, will follow the contract, interested persons and international organisations who monitor the progress of the situation and try to pressure that as many countries validate the contract and/or become members of it. They noticed that although Iceland was one of the signing customers at the beginning of December 2008, it would not have finished the work of validating it. So I asked questions during the days about this very matter, and I so well wanted the answer to come a few days later in the form of the bill that is now being discussed. I don't think there's a reason to have more to say this than I am glad that we'll get this done before spring, so Iceland can attend this conference with all dignity in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u104	Honorable Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee of Health Committee members, members of the Committee with a review of a bill's legislation on changes to the laws on the provision of services, method of loyalty and security at work, No. 46/1980, and law on the affairs of disabled people, No. 59/1992, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for a number of people to meet. The bill suggests that there are changes to the workforce, method of loyalty, and security laws, No. 46/1980, and law on the affairs of disabled people, No. 59/1992, with subsequent changes. The bill covers three factors. First of all, there's a one. The bill proposed changes to 38th st. legalize equipment, method of loyalty, and safety at work. They are aimed at ensuring improvement for the new regulations on action against harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment and violence at work. There is a set of regulations that were carried out in collaboration with the labour market organisation. It's a review of 1st pars. The bill was positive. The Commission agrees with the importance of ensuring improvement in the regulations on harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment and violence at work areas, and thus suggests that B-Js 1. The bill will be accepted unchanged. The committee considers it desirable to a factor of 38. the legislation on the structure, method of loyalty and safety in the workplace is explicit on the requirement for orderliness, structure and implementation of work, including action against harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence at work. So she suggests a change of a- team 1st par. The bill, which includes the recommendation that a minister should appoint a Regulation rather than that it is permitted by a minister. Second of all, there's 2. The bill suggested a further 82. g. the legislation on the quality of commitment, and security of the work area of a paragraph on the duty of employers to inform the government's work programme of reforms at work. It is designed to improve the security of the workplace by increasing the efficiency of the work programme. The response to the suggestion was positive. Among other things, the use of electronic communication instead of follow-up visits may be beneficial for both the job drivers and the work management. The Committee considers the change to make the work programme more efficient and may reduce the need for follow-up visits. So the committee suggests 2. The bill will be passed on as it happens. Third, adjustments are suggested in the cooperation of tasks involving the induction of user - controlled personal assistance to disabled persons. Use of personal assistance to disabled persons means that those in need themselves control the services they receive within the time and financial frames set up in a contract for help and will depend on an assessment of the individual's need. It is designed to help those who are disabled to enjoy independence as much as those who are disloyal. The General Assembly adopted a 138th legislature as social and insurance minister was assigned to set up user-controlled personal assistance with disabled people in Iceland. With 42. track No. 152/2010, of the change in law on the disabled, the provision for temporary IV to the law was changed. The principle now recommends the cooperation of the Kingdom, rural society, and the overall organization of disabled people on the induction of user - controlled personal assistance. The 2011 project control of user - controlled personal assistance began. The first experimental agreements on the user - controlled personal assistance were made the following year. Since then, the number of contracts has increased and 2014 was made 51 contracts. More contracts are expected to be made in 2015 and 2016. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested that the provision of new regulations on the provision of equipment, loyalty and security at work areas be granted temporary permission for interference from the rules of 53 and 56rd. The law on rest time and night work for employees who provide personal assistance with the agreement of the labour market partners. A bill report suggests that local rules are considered to be able to set the task on user-controlled personal assistance a few limits. In 1st. 53. g. The principle that workers should get at least 11 hours of continuous rest every 24 hours is stated in the setting, method of loyalty, and security at work. In 1st. 56. g. states the principle that working hours of night workers should normally not exceed eight hours in each 24 hour period. The regulations take into account work time rules in accordance with the European Economic Area Convention, as agreed in Article 3 and 8. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2003/88/EC on specific aspects of the schedule of work time, which has been entered into XVIII. A new addition to the deal. In the 18th. The directive is authorized to deviate from paragraphs 3 and 8. with collective contracts. Such abnormalities should be guaranteed by the condition that the respective workers receive the corresponding rest period instead or, in exceptional circumstances, where it is not possible for objective reasons to provide the same rest time, in that appropriate protection is given to the partner workers. Opinions were expressed in Article 3. The bill for the Committee. The association between disabled people supported the arrangement. It was observed that a flexible work period could pay for an increase in the interaction of the user-controlled personal assistance, including the following: with so - called night watches, which means that an employee sleeps at about the same time as a user, but is present if necessary. On the contrary, it was noted that principles governing the equipment, the method of loyalty, and the safety of the workplace at resttime and night hours were designed primarily for the protection of staff. Sources of interference from the rules could lead to an incompetent pressure on employees to work long shifts without adequate rest. In Comb 4. The bill is suggested that cooperation projects be extended to 2016 and directives for the legislative process be changed. The report on the bill shows that there is an assessment of the work programme on the user-controlled personal assistance that has not arrived at the end of 2014 to ensure that its objective is fully met. A review of the laws on the affairs of disabled persons is being conducted to support the user - controlled personal assistance as one of the services provisions available to disabled persons who need help in their daily lives. If the length of the work programme on the user-controlled personal assistance is extended in the way expected in the bill, more experience on the implementation of the project will be provided to benefit from a legal review. The Committee presented general support for the extension of the work programme, although some have said that it was not possible to legalize the user - controlled personal assistance of 2014. It was noted that enough funds were needed to meet the anticipated number of user-controlled contracts on the basis of personal assistance during the cooperative work programme. Then there were various viewpoints that should be considered in preparation for legal fixation. In particular, long-term funding and a variety of work rights were discussed, including work positions, job descriptions, training for employees and whether a direct recruitment relationship should be between employees and servants of the ministry or if employees should be involved in an recruitment relationship with a service party. It was also noted that in other countries, many solutions have been tried with regard to user - controlled personal assistance that should be considered in preparation. The Committee considers it desirable to extend the cooperation project to 2016. On the other hand, the Committee does not believe that there is evidence to show the need for the adjustment proposed to the section 4. the bill, is already expected to be legalized by personal user-controlled assistance as a principal service to disabled persons in the 2nd Paint 5 mg. provision for temporary IV on law on the cases of the disabled. So the committee suggests that this change will be made alone in 5 mg. provision for temporary IV in the Act that the 2014 year will be replaced by 2016 in paragraph 1 and 2 of the paragraph. The Commission stresses the loyal funding of user - controlled personal assistance, including to trust the security of users on the continuation of the ministry, including those now having a contract on the user-friendly. The Commission feels right in preparing the legal planning for the legislation of measures, including the experience of other northern countries. The Commission feels that, in principle, the terms of interest of employees who provide personal assistance in collective and employment contracts are generally considered to be appropriate rather than in the legislation. Nevertheless, the Commission considers it necessary to take a position on certain work conditions when preparing the tools, including whether or not to provide permission for variation from normal sleep and night hours rules, as stated earlier. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes mentioned in the document. Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Yearson Árnadóttir writes this in advance that the user - controlled personal assistance is part of public welfare services and should not be a source of capital gain to a private citizen who is in charge of the money industry. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen of Ásmundur Friðriksson, head of the Committee, Brynjar Níelsson Friðursson, Lára Arnardóttir, Ingibjörg Óðinsdóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Páll Valur Björnsson, Steinunn Björnótir, Þóra of the Árnadóttir with the above notice and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir Björnótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-29-138.u105	A respectable president. I explain the changes in my contribution to the environment and transport committee, where we suggest the only adjustment that is to bring the sector's income directives to the state of the climate as a result of a change made on the bill to legalize various criteria for budgeting for 2015. According to the adjusted climate fund, half of the Icelandic government's income for auction sales is restored, but the role of the fund is to support projects that can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to support Iceland's ambitious aims in reducing emissions. For us to be a pair of people with countries around us, we need to support knowledge, science, and evolution toward climate - related society and green growth. That's what the more part votes against here.
