ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u1	V.E.G. President. We are still discussing this matter of a plan on how to handle and how to obtain. I just wanted to get in on the fact that we're here at 5.3% of the total resources of Icelandic fishing roads. It's quite remarkable, though there's not a price on this council plan. But what I find disturbing when you think about these matters is that this action is intended to have a job, social, and community effect. But what becomes evident when you enter into these matters and examine them is that the localised edgy, this general, does not seem to have an increased structure in areas that specifically examined the development of their special rural area, while the special settlement seems to have a more positive effect. However, a quarter of the 5.3% of the total resources in some form of social development are being assigned to the generalised population, which is somehow unclear whether there is any result. I find such laws so strange, such as fish control laws, which have so much control and precision that it is not a much better and more comprehensive system, followed by the provision of such vast wealth to achieve its objectives. What you do when you read about here in the cross-cutting is that the plan is to make a marine-based assessment of where line integration works as a job, social, and structural action, to be made. Actually, there is a slight reduction in line integration, but it is still 19.91% of this, is actually going to be the same as in the current year, but it was combined. The rules on cross-checking require that the line be applied on land or jumped up, and there are no other fishing devices on the boat, but now we are going to look for ways to allow the boat's bait machines, but bring them some kind of functionality on the line-making level to support the build-up effect of the line-in. I just wanted to come up here to tell you that this is, of course, an advanced system, and this is a way of meeting marine settlements that have endured the espionage of one of their meals, and that is a very legitimate goal. But it is very disturbing when we are talking about other such valuables as more than 5% of the total resources in the ocean field to say that there are no better effects of this action. And when a minister is being given enormous power in the form of regulations, you are concerned that maybe this is not being put in the right place or to the right person, and you also wonder what is in charge, since it goes to one place more than another and one party more than another, without any valid assessment of what the effect is or has been. I think we need to get our hands on these stitches permanently and only cut off the drawers at the sea leader's desk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u2	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee program with a greater part of the management and monitoring committee for a bill to correct a change in Iceland's Management Board. The European Commission's work structure is traced to the Commission itself and I refer to it, but this bill suggests a change in the European Commission laws that include the general legal authority of the Minister to determine the residence of the institutions and to set up the Office of Offices and Ministry within the Ministry. It is suggested that, at the time of the transfer of administrations between recruitment agents, financial rights and employees should be transferred between recruitment. Changes in the rights and duties of the government's personnel on the provision of transport between governments without the publication of the vacancy for application are then proposed. It is also suggested that there should always be functional Ministers on the state and economic issues as well as the proposed changes in the implementation of the duties of Ministers to present important legal matters in the government and the rules for registration of communications and meetings. It is then suggested that the order and operation of co-ordination committees on moral criteria for the administration of the administration should be removed, along with the subsequent changes in information law. The committee discussed the bill at their meetings, especially on 1st. the bill, which suggests general authorization of the Minister to recommend the location of the institutions under which he is hearing, unless the law recommends otherwise. Notes with the bill show that the secretary's authority to determine the location of the institutions under which he is hearing is a normal part of the minister's administrative authority. Following the Court's decision in a so - called national survey case that the transfer of Iceland to Avérus was unsailable, the official authority of the Ministers to transport agencies under his command was established in Reykjavík. It is stated that at the last legal revision, the law went away, but it was not mentioned in comments to the bill and therefore the Council could not have taken sides in the change. The Committee concluded that it was not default for government agencies to be located in Reykjavík, especially in the context of technological development, where geographic locations and distances would be less important than before. They concluded that it was not by default that a minister could determine the location of the official institutions on a one-way basis. This would be an important factor for the management of the organisation and uncertainty of these materials, which could limit the potential of public organisations in competition for staff. It was also noted that the Supreme Court's decision was not based on just 2 mg. 13th par. The Constitution also holds the requirements of the administrative principles for government decision making, including The requirements for preparation of the decisions and the inclusion of them are based on objective opinions. The majority believe that, in view of the general minister's employment privileges, it is right to establish a general minister's authority to determine the location of the official agencies. However, the majority feel that it is necessary for such decisions to be careful with the regulations on the objective of the administrative administration, in connection with the findings of the Allegorium agent due to the complaint of the staff of the Fish Institute for Plans for the proposed transfer of the Agency from Hafnarfjörður to Akureyri. The committee also discussed Article 6. The bill on planning advisers, which suggests that special operations and government agencies must be established as a part of the Ministry. Notes show that the directive is intended to increase the scope of planning recruitment with the aim of achieving the efficiency of the operation and the simplicity of the management system. One of the main findings in the 2008 Commission report on the leading and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks was the need to strengthen and educate the government. Thus, special employment units and agencies within recruitment would have been able to increase human resources, thereby increasing expertise and flexibility in dealing with new circumstances and projects. The majority agree with these views and consider it important to increase the quality of human resources within the recruitment process and to feel that the change is successful and that it can strengthen the Ministry professionally, including with increased expertise. The committee also discussed Article 10. The bill that suggests a change in the rights and responsibilities of government personnel on the transfer of public employees. This is an dilation of the current legislation that involves the transport of workers between recruitment practices, reaching the transport of employees between recruitment and institutions and between strains. Comments on the bill show that the expected change will increase the potential for human use and response to temporary stress. The main objective is to provide more and more opportunities for increased knowledge and progress in work, and the change is also likely to contribute to greater cooperation between Member States. There is also good experience in the transfer of employees between recruitment agents from the legalization of such sources in 2011 and the continuation of that authority normally occurred. The bill emphasizes that the final decision to transfer the government is with the employee himself. The committee's meetings further discussed Article 4. the bill that suggests this change to Article 11. The law that, rather than having an obligation to keep a list of formal communications and meetings, they will be referred to a significant relationship and meetings. In agreement, there's a 10th paragraph. the bill suggested a change to 2 mg. Twenty-seven. Information to include important information on government communication with the public and other governments in the same way as other important information. The Committee stated that there are any discrepancies to be carried out on the registry of relevant problems. It also suggested that important communication, instead of formal communication, is an over-recognised term that could lead to decisions about written formal communication and meetings that might be too dependent on whims or mental opinions of those who are to be listed. This is a sensitive subject in which overexact definitions could increase the risk of avoiding protocols on the registration of communication. The majority agree on the need to ensure that the best registry of relevant information can be made and therefore suggests that the scope of the procedure will be even more detailed, i.e. to present a list of formal relations and meetings, as well as informal contact if considered important, between the management board's recruitment and non-party parties. The Committee discussed the terms of the bill on moral standards for which a special coordination committee is expected to be submitted, but the Ministry will accept its assignment. The Committee stated that in view of experience with the Committee's work, a special legal committee is no longer needed to carry out this role, although it is important that it be carried out, including to ensure that ethical standards develop to the normal level. The majority agree with that and think the change is normal. Seven. The bill is proposed to change the 21st floor. The Act on the provision of personnel transport in the transfer of administrations between recruitment practices. Notes with the bill show that the aim is to ensure that the transfer of government issues does not result in additional costs, but is moving with the means and, where appropriate, places. It is suggested that the Ministry agree to transfer funds and employees from recruitment, but it is not successful within two weeks of the completion of the 1st Presidency decision. Section 4. The law's given to cut the prime minister out. The committee found that from the source of experience it is necessary for a clear set of rules to be taken into account. The major part of the report shows that the aim of the changes proposed in the bill includes increasing the flexibility of the European Commission in managing their work better, increasing the efficiency and activation of human beings, as well as the change needed in view of experience from the new European Commission legislation in 2011. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: Section 4. put it this way: 1.mg. 1 1. The law says: For formal relations and meetings, as well as informal contact should be submitted if considered important, between recruitment of the Board of Directors as well as non-participants. By the majority, Brumur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Karl Garðarsson, Vigdís the daughter of Hauksdóttir, Willum Þór Þórsson, and Sigríður Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u3	V.E.G. President. Although this case is now under the custody of the General Commission and Commission and we have here a story on the matter on the part and on the lesser part of the committee, this government case has come from the highest level. The prime minister, who is its spokesman and appropriate for his being present for the discussion, is responsible for the fact that our wishes have been made there. Hv. paritaprevir Empression of Níelsson's Brynjar has explained the opinion of more of the committee, but I am an executive for the smaller section. Under that umbrella, there are whales. The members of Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Helgi Hjörvar, Valtor Bjarnadóttir and Brynhildur St Pétursdóttir, who is an officer of the Board and Control Board and Control Committee, agree to our opinion. I'm going to read the main elements of my committee party, it's short, and I'm going to go to some of the articles on the bill. We'll exchange our opinions to three chapters, discuss first the privileges of a secretary to transport the institutions, secondly, the mobility of workers within the administration and finally we'll discuss moral standards. It says here in our opinion, by permission of the President: The European part believes that we will review the old legislation on Iceland's Council of Government and the sentence of the current law has, in effect, been made a decision to dismiss the legal authority of the Minister to denounce the establishment of the institutions under which he will hear. There is a difference when an institution has taken root in a particular area, whether the work or the staff is looked into. This will affect the competitiveness of the Agency for staff. Another is the establishment of a new institution that is not built together by institutions or older ones, although, of course, a clear grammatical argument is needed at all times. The minority agrees with the viewpoint expressed in the reviews that a minister's decision regarding the transport of the Fish Room shows the importance of having the institutions established by law. There is evidence that a great deal of knowledge has already been lost, since many employees have stopped. In this case, uncertainty about the location of the Agency may also affect the possibility of recruiting qualified persons. The minority believes that permission for Ministers to transport institutions to their own interests without objective support, financial and professional evaluations is an abnormal exponent to the attorney's authority. The source is designed to strengthen the European Commission at the expense of the legislature and considers the less part dangerous to promote such trends when experience shows that there is always a need to limit the authority of the European Commission. At the same time, the smaller section agrees with the view that there is a much more urgent need for discussion about the purpose and aim of such changes than is the bill. The minority notes that although authority to transport in public institutions is subject to the approval of the legislatator, such transport should, of course, be possible. However, the presence of the legislature authority reduces the risk of quirk management and is more likely to promote professional, responsible, and reasonable practices. The minority agrees with the perspective of a client on diffusion of sources to the administration of workers within the administration facility proposed to the b-teeming sector 10. the bill is designed to reduce transparency in such decision-making. The minority points out that transparency is the basis for the general public's ability to provide adequate government support. The principle of advertising all public jobs includes the following: based on transparency views. It also includes making sure that there is equal talk among candidates and that the most qualified candidate is always hired. Hence, it means that individuals should be valued and thus also opposed to political ideas about who should be in public service. The above provision suggests to increase the authority to transfer workers between recruitment and suitable institutions, as there is the approval of the relevant manager for the transfer and the employee himself, but according to local requirements it is permitted to transfer employees between recruitment practices. Comments to the Committee show that the decree is critical of the representatives of the employee. She even hides. in that experience in the transfers of employees under local legislation is not good and that employees are rarely in a real position to refuse such transport. The lesser part calls attention to these viewpoints. Comments by the bill show that legal consultations with the workers' unions unions were being taken into account. However, to the committee it was noted that the representative of the hired people felt that the obligation to communicate had not been maintained at 52 C.E. the law on the rights and duties of the officers of the state. The minority believes that it is serious not to agree that there is a obligation to communicate, and it is important to believe that changes in employment and other employment rights will always be done in full agreement with the employee organisation. According to 25. The legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland shall operate on moral standards for the administrations. The bill suggests that she be laid down, but the Ministry of Presidency will accept her assignment. The minority of these doubts suggests that to the Committee, there is limited logical support in the bill and that it is not clear what was intended for the change. So the minority feels that this aspect of the matter needs to be considered in a much better way. V.E.G. President. So it was our opinion that we stand at the minority of the Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee of the Generals. When I begin to discuss some of the elements of this bill in detail, but we do here, I'm going to start at 25. current law, which is adjusted according to Article 8. This bill. I would like to read the article as it is now in the current U.S. board of directors. It's as follows, with the permission of a president: The Minister of Prime Minister appoints three years at the co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administration of the administrations. The Committee has a manager, an unregistered appointment, one by the appointing of the management board, a representative of the government's staff, two representatives of the Association of State Services, and two others chosen on the basis of their expertise in administrative and ethical matters. The Ministry of Presidency provides the Commission with a job position. The main tasks of co-ordination committees are: a. To promote a high moral standard and to provide government recommendations on measures to prevent conflicting interests and corruption. b. To give a review of the rules of ethics on the basis of these laws and laws on the rights and responsibilities of the government and to advise the government on their interpretation. c. To promote information and study in the topic areas of the Committee. d. to contribute to the compatibility of failure as indicated by the WHO monitoring criteria and other available information on violations of ethics or risk of corruption in the state. e. to join partners, institutions and offices here in the country and abroad who work against corruption in the public sector. f. To report their activity to the prime minister every year, if necessary, recommendations to the government for further action to strengthen confidence in the administration of the State's administration, to reduce the risk of corruption and problems to the administrations. The report shall be submitted to the General Assembly. In order to ensure that the activities of the chair agent and the National Reconclusions are performed, the co-ordination committee should regularly consult with them in office. This is now the current 25. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. It will now be taken away by a new bill, replaced by the President's permission: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of morality in the following cases, provides instruction on these within the Council of Government, and monitors that they will accomplish their purpose. In order to ensure that the work of the U.S. Marshal and State Review is performed, the Ministry shall have regular consultation with that office. Period. Here came a spokesman for a greater part of the administration and monitoring committee and referred to the General's research reports and the need to respond to the indications that have been made. What is the nature of that counsel? They're even. to find in 25. law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, now proposed to evacuate and transfer all power to the Ministry of Presidency, which should have initiatives and all threads in its hands. The article in the current law should have extensive consultations within the management board, with staff, with trade unions, from where two representatives, and with non-board members in the university environment. Not long ago was the subject of the University of Iceland's case on the exact subject. There was an excellent discussion in the wake of educational telecommunications, and people considered the value of such laws. The evidence made me feel that the construction work was more important than the building piece itself, that it was important for us to keep within the administrations and within the politics, where we called separate parties to a table to discuss which side we could build trust in the administration of the administrative agency with a meaningful consultation of the kind expected at 25. and to bring it into the crevices of the law, which is no more eunuchs than all power, and all strands are to lie by the prime minister and the Ministry of Presidency. Does this really seem to be a step forward? Of course not! And while the bill was all there was to learn about this, there is a reason why we should respond to it. I encourage you to discuss this matter very carefully. Would it be wise to leave the matter in salt and wait for the summer and until the autumn until we have observed it better, or would the administrative body here at the General Assembly want to vote over the next few days to exonerate this law, the result of the work of the II Parliament and its tips? V.E.G. President. I've started to discuss one article, but that's not the article that has been most reserved for us. Now I'm going to make a move. At the beginning of this bill, it says, with the permission of a president: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. There was a sentence in the old board of directors. It was taken out of the 2011 Law review because there were examples that men looked at, the move to the ground, which was illegally condemned. But it was not just that, but the other thing that a minister would consider to be unnatural power. Have you forgotten the discussion that took place in this hall regarding the changes in Iceland's Management Board, where the present government stand was felt in the present administrative part of the government, too far too far in bringing power to changes in the Council of Government to Ministers and particularly prime minister? Don't you remember?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u4	Yeah. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u5	What was the compromise on the subject? She was that since such changes were only allowed to be made, a council proposal had previously adopted in the council on this subject. Why should the same happen when it comes to government institutions? Nobody's talking about moving agencies is against the law. One can argue about this, and one debates over how convenient it is to uproot and transfer institutions from one side to another. But the second must be quite clear that we have a place for this strife, and he is the General. The difference between the majority of the part of the Commission and the monitoring committee and the smaller part is about whether or not to go before the council. And they actually go further on this bill because it holds authority for a minister who was not before present. I'm gonna let me read page six. The bill, which is as follows, by permission of the President: The head of the Department's Office shall be organized by dividing it into trade agencies and each office should be directed by the Office Manager under the management of the Ministry. At the same time, it is permitted to set up specific services and services, which are a part of the Ministry. Such operations direct a government official, in the sense of law on the rights and duties of the employees of the state, under the management of the Ministry. It lays the broad record of the administration, or administration, within the administration and then the minister for organizational change. During the last assembly, I offered suggestions on changing the slot environment, wanted to set up laws on that environment, and set up an agency to monitor the gambling industry. It is not unnecessary, it is a business of tens of billions. The organization I wanted to set up was to be the Happsist Lab and to take care of this surveillance on behalf of society. During the council, there was great opposition, and the matter could not be resolved. Should I have had the authority to act as a minister and to set up this institution without discussion at the council? Is that normal? Would that have been normal for humans? I wouldn't have thought that normal. I feel that there is a discussion about the organization of public activity in this hall and that it should not deprive the council of its right to make such decisions. But as far as I can see, with this bill, it would have been a law, I could have done my part. Yes, yes, I would have achieved my goals, perhaps temporarily, until a new minister had sat in the chair and then he would likely return that decision. We'd like to make more of a firm move in the administration business than we'd like this to be. How do we guarantee her? We'll secure her even. by developing a democratic discussion of the matter, the discussion of the lawyers in this manner. There are other changes in the bill that no doubt consider to be greatly improved, but I allow myself to doubt. In the 9th. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland is required of so-called Ministerial Committees and stated in the bill that they were extremely effective, but the lack of detailed legislation on which to operate. V.E.G. President. I'm going to allow myself to raise some doubts about these Ministerial Committees. I think it's normal to set up committees that are temporarily involved in certain matters, not that the government is divided into major decisions. This course was held during the last term, I think the experience is not good, and now we're going to continue this tour. My lesson from this experience is not that we should do this without criticism. This is another matter that needs further discussion, and we need to discuss it further. It is in itself an unclassical case. It has to do with good government, which all of us are likely to strive for. My opinion is that when important economic decisions are made in the government, all governments should sit at such a table and not be divided into units where a part of the government alone is involved. In other words, however, it is intended to be established and to state in a paper with the bill that it worked out for the best. There is one adjustment proposal that the greater part of the Commission suggests that the bill we agree to is adopted by the IMMI Institute and we're writing on which we're in the minority of the Committee. V.E.G. President. I think that when you consider the whole thing, it turns out that it's broad, that's taking on many fundamentals in our administration. There are fundamental changes made in the European Commission legislation. There are back - ups and backs, strengthening the central authority of the Ministry of Presidency and prime minister, who was highly criticized during the last term. I wondered that the same men who promoted this criticism here a few of the missing ones are now offering suggestions that have gone exactly in the direction they had criticized; a proselytizing of the mid - State of Prime Minister while there is a reduction in the authority and the presence of the General of the Council. I encourage this bill to get a lot of discussion at the council, and I encourage members in general to study the matter very carefully. We should not allow these changes to take place without question. It should not be subject to the quirk of individual Ministers for the management of the administrative institutions. I also strongly criticize that it is a matter of disregarding the law - abiding obligations of government to agree with class unions on changing work environments and changes in the rights and responsibilities of employees. This bill has not been built. And on top of that, as I have explained in my speech, the arrival of the unions, the administrations, the heads of state, is reduced when it comes to setting moral standards within the administrations. We never guarantee morality or politeness by law. It's something that humans develop by themselves. But the point is that we are trying to find a channel that will reinforce and strengthen efforts to create a more solid moral foundation under the administration and under the politics of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u6	With letters, dated May 22 and 26, the president has requested this, as per the 8th law of Figures 1. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administrations and monitoring committees, are reporting on the reports of the National Relations on the National Institute of Nature, on the other hand, on the status of child protection in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u7	A respectable president. There is no program for the council now, nor is there a meeting table with committees. Rather, the council is in a sort of loose air. Once we're in that situation, we'll have to decide what to do. paritaprevir In this morning, Þórhallsson's decision is made on a committee as chairman of the Committee to pull out a matter that has to face up to the administration of the administrative authority of three rural communities, Reykjavík, Egls, and Akureyri. We get this whole thing completely different, it was originally around Reykjavík, but we get it all different by then. 8.13 this morning, in our mailbox. K. 8,25 will appoint the senator to pull it out of the committee by the members of the Independence Party and the Superintendent. A respectable president. This is not an acceptable practice. We in my section objected, and we requested that the representatives of these rural communities and representatives of the Ministry represent the committee to review the impact of the changes with us, and it was rejected. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I have to make these protests available to the president because we want to practice some careful practice and this kind of practice isn't. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u8	A respectable president. What a joy it was that we had reached this important issue this morning, along with two other primes! It is finished in my opinion and a positive report was received both from Akureyri City and from the Valley of River. The idea as hell. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir was introduced here in the press and said that there would be a reality, at least to be submitted, and a greater part of the committee suggested this. This focuses on the privilege of representing all the people of the country at the table that determines the future of the city of Reykjavík. This is the only way to get it into such a difficult situation from the bad course it has been during the past few years. This means we're going to get a vote on it at the Council. [[The president calls.]] But I reiterate that it is a great joy that we have managed to take this very important matter out of the committee this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u9	A respectable president. Of course, this strange matter has come to the attention. paritaprevir Höskuldur, Þór of Þórhallsson, in charge of taking over the organization of the city of Reykjavík. I can't believe it's happening here in a matter of minutes on committees that a planning body is taken by rural groups who are not even allowed to carry a hand for their heads, in Akureyri, and in Egls. It's simply that it would have been normal for a representative of these rural groups to exist. It's a constitution in the country. It ensures decision-making rights for rural society. I must wait again to the highest level. The president is about to try to control the formalities that creep up here at the council and break all the rules. It is a constitution in the country that measures the voluntary rights of a community. You cannot take over from your rural society without even allowing them to express themselves, over a few minutes, without a discussion on a committee committee. A respectable president. For example, over the past few years, there have been disagreements over which line lines have been put to the fore. [[The president calls.]] What example is setting here today if the council jumps to take the planning of a rural society?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u10	A respectable president. Now that we start to anticipate the end of this council and men are rather trying to improve their relations between government and government standing, this is a prerogative case here and is torn out of the committee by men who have not been discussed at any point. It is not enough that there is a organizational authority taken into account by three rural communities, as the case stated in the matter of one rural company, Reykjavíkurburg, who was allowed both to install envelopes and attend a meeting of the Committee, but it is now being discussed in ten minutes that two rural communities are being added. And where should the planning go, a respectable president? Should it go to the Ministerial Minister? No, they're going to the Minister of the Interior. I'd like to know if it's the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister is aware that she is about to develop a special planning agency at an airport in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u11	A respectable president. What happened at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee this morning was a political crisis. It's true that I review the sequence when people are doing this. There is an invitation for a meeting at 8:00 this morning, and after 21 minutes of the proposed meeting period, the Committee's chairman has managed to gather from a panel of members of the committee to take the matter out with a greater proportion. That's how it's done. Reykjavíkurburg is being taken not only by the organizational authority but also by two additional rural communities, with ten minutes of coverage, not with any visitors, not with any comments. What kind of work are these things? And to what? paritaprevir For example, Þórhallsson the son of Dírhall would come up here in a speech chair and commend himself for having managed to take the matter from a committee this morning, as if taking a case from a committee was an accomplishment, of course, only humorous. It's funny to witness this kind of work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u12	President. I am deeply worried about where we're headed with this Council. The box was taken out of the program for a meeting to be announced in an effort to find a solution in this case, but no meeting has taken place, Mr. President, no one. Then comes this case this morning, which is incredibly unscrupulous and unscrupulous in all places, and at the same time, the leaders of the classes have not announced a single meeting of the government opposition. Clearly, those here in power have completely lost control of events. I think it is necessary for the heads of the clans to discuss with their members who upset the council, rather than teach the government resistance to stand in the middle of the Council's wall. The shame is yours who is responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u13	A respectable president. It's mostly about work and what it's all about. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson's palace succeeds. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson even looks good in the comparison. This is what happened this morning. They just don't work like this, don't bring back a red bill. 8.13, that's all there is, time on our computers, and pull the case out at 6: 00 p.m. 8.25. I've been there more to it than because the metropolitan airport is still in the depths while there isn't another decent place for it, but this kind of work I don't have to do. It's like a whisk. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall told repercussions, this is not a proper assembly and we should throw this matter back into the committee and talk to these rural communities and to the Ministry involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u14	A respectable president. This place is creating storms from nothing. [[Up front.]] This matter has been scheduled for the past few weeks, the committee was scheduled this morning so that you could be absolutely aware that it was to take this matter out of the end. [[Not...]] There are claims here that there were no guests in this case. [[Up front.]] They were completely finished, all guests, and I even became to all the requests received from the government stand for extra guests. It's just not true what's said here today, but it's claimed that they're taking over the planning of rural society. That's wrong. It is being taken care of in this exceptional situation that turns to international airports in the country and is exposed to the most important transport infrastructure, a case that is obviously toward national interests. It's so certain that this is going to violate the Constitution. I'm asking men to read 78 st. which says that the authority of self-sponsored is within the community unless it is decided otherwise by the General. That's exactly what we're doing. In view of the need for a planning committee to go to the Minister of Ministers of the Interior, of course, it will oversee the Chefavour Airport planning committee and will handle the transport situation in this country. [[The president calls.]] This is transportation, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u15	A respectable president. We have a serious situation at the council. We'll be able to testify that I'd like to mean complete incorruption. We spent May months arguing over the plan of what was going to happen. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son is pushing several activations into a synopsis proposal between discussions with all laws on how to make decisions like this. Shall we now go to the end of June the month in an effort to stop the plan? paritaprevir Why would the son of Þórhallsson, the son of Solomon, take the planning of a community and enter another issue that is also a bit hot, a Reykjavík airport, and where it is to be located? [[Up front.]] That's a matter of action. I'm not going to participate in allowing what. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson to make the decision simply from Reykjavík in this huge matter. [[Up front.]] Has the highest. President any government over the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u16	...in a physical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u17	The president is trying to control the council, and he has repeatedly talked about it. Congress officials who want to discuss these matters do so over the General Assembly chair, not from their seats in conversation or appearances of that kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u18	A respectable president. As if we were missing another issue about how the Council is working or not working. Now I feel that there is no need for some material discussion about the proposal here and now because the very thing that seems out of place is the work itself, that is, the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u19	There's nothing wrong with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u20	There's nothing wrong with these tactics, is there? Senator. [[Up front.]] Believe it or not. The senator, for example, really that this would not cause a wolf's spray?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u21	Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u22	Did he really believe that when he threw in a change of order of this size, which he then makes no big deal, give any minutes to review the changes, then take the case out, and, according to other meetings to do so? That's not how it's supposed to work, a respectable president. Only about the situation as it has been here lately. It's easy for the public to be shocked at the Council when he sees what's going on here live. But if the public experienced the work of the majority of the things that are not taking place in this pool, the public would be much more shocked by the management of more than the smaller parts, I'd say, completely. This isn't gonna work, Mr. Honorable President. This isn't working. At least we need to work together to see how we are going to work. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the president, Is it under the unification of members of Congress and the government that a decision is made to maintain a state of war at the council? Was it decided? Did it have to be checked at a government conference this morning that it was important to maintain the war at the council? [[Up front.]] You wonder when this kind of suggestion is made that way so fast that you have never seen anything like it. It would be interesting if we could print here on the wall of the ▪tracks to the station we got at 13 minutes past eight this morning. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It was completely blue, because it was like 1,2 mouse4 words left by a previous case, something like that, headlines and something small, but it was different because it's another matter of Congress. So says the chairman of the Committee: It's unusual, it's been here for years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Ergo, we're going to keep doing bad work. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u24	V.E.G. President. You must ask the highest. President, is this government priority? Does the administrative part want to waste time on this? We have a request from the highest level. Environment Minister to postpone the protection laws for the second year in a row because the Environment and Transport Committee has not been able to complete the situation. We're here to discuss it in the last days, to postpone it again, or the old law will be taken on July 1. We have a transport program that discussed Friday and is due to be handled as a four - year transport law and to be discussed in the Committee. This case is pulled in. We're on committees and we're supposed to be on a full-scale and educational committee, a welfare committee and I'm a deputy of the Environment and Transport Committee, all in the same time. Why don't we close this council for a few days and try to waste what we're going to finish? [[Taken out on: right.]] We're not going to finish this until September. We're not going to finish this now, that's impossible. This work is a declaration of war. I am one of those who have been supportive of having the airport at the Watermelon, but I am never supportive of such violence. [[The president calls.]] [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u25	A respectable president. I just want to state that it was specifically requested in the memory of the transport and environment committee that Ragna, leading the so - called Rackham Committee to discuss the future location of the airport, would be assigned to attend a meeting of the Committee. It didn't happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u26	It was tried to reach her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u27	Yeah, I know what to do. A senator tried to reach her and she was abroad, and what if more guests are abroad? [[She was overseas.]] [[Yeah, she was overseas.]] What if there are other clients who are unable to attend a meeting of the Committee? So, do they just agree that there are people abroad? [[Up front.]] Gonna go for it. A senator saying that to the town council in Akureyri and different Egls: Yes, we took your planning, unfortunately, you were in foreign lands for the time being. Of course, this is not acceptable. There should not be any major changes in this way. Right away. A senator claims that the arrival of visitors was in the natural way, so it is true when it comes to the city area of Reykjavík, but the change was presented this morning, so that it did not appear in the document for the authorities, no one has dealt with these changes, no guests, no reviews, just a mental determination of more parts of the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u28	A respectable president. I told them earlier that in the council, there was a lack of self - control. It seems to me that in the shelter of this incomprehensible lack of control, some members of the council are using unprecedented bullies to get their own way and penetrate an enormously delicate stage of issues that are in other places. Everyone has to respect that. Everyone must also respect the handling of matters in committees. They're not won, as they did this morning. I'm saying out of control because we've been over it here in the past that there's no plan at this council right now. When there is no programme, it should be put to the test that any group of members at the council are called to review the best way to do this, what should be put first, and how we should behave under these circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u29	President. How useful it would have been if it had been live this morning from this committee meeting. How useful it would be if the public saw what would happen at that workplace outside of this pont. A man has repeatedly tried to defend the council and the actions here by saying that the work of the committee is good. It hasn't been that lately. I'm worried about the state of the Generals, Mr. President, and I'm challenging President to respond to the situation here and gather members of Congress and review the situation. I don't believe that the council presidents of the greater part are comfortable with this kind of work, I don't believe it. I can't believe the heads of the clans are comfortable with this kind of work, I don't believe it, Mr President. Is there no interest in finding professional processes where we can work together, collectively, in matters that are important to the nation? What kind of work are these? I just came into work rather positive this morning, and this is the first thing you can see, and you're completely disturbed by the way some members of the greater part take on great power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u30	Mr. President. The work programme has been unplugged. There's no such thing as a committee. There have been no conferences on the continuation of Congress. I was overseas for four days, and when I got home, it's like time just hasn't passed, nothing's happened, nobody talked. I'm going to the top. President to continue this way? I'm going to the top. Mr President to continue the council in confusion? Committees do not meet, constant new issues to arise on the surface, and no attempt is made to review which cases are precisely to be top priority at the highest level. A government so that we can sit down and review how we are going to complete the council sometime. I'll say some time, for, of course, I have no idea. I have no objection to further discovery into June, but it has to be organized. This image of the council, which people receive through a live broadcast, plays a major role in the little trust people have at the Council as an institution, where people can't even agree on working conditions or how their day should look. [[The president calls.]] This isn't working, Mr. President. I suggest the highest. The President's taking a break at a council meeting until we have a decision on how, for example. The week should look.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u31	A respectable president. When the majority of the object appears with a change in size. General and educational committees are always discussed with this change in proposal. They are discussed in an effort to find some reconciliation or at least keep people clean where they stand. Hv. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee does not seem to pride even in discussing matters for just a few minutes and then taking matters out with all the changes. On the other hand, I think I've figured out where the plan is. Senator. The plan is to enter the media as a national knight and save Reykjavík's airport from evil, wicked Reykjavík. [[Up front.]] I think that's his plan and he's actually trying to create issues here to make himself a knight of this matter. A respectable president. I'm sorry, but I just have to say that I'm all for having the airport continued in Reykjavík. It's a material discussion. That's why I'm sorry for this. [[Up front.]] The conference's work has to conform to something a little bit of sense. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u32	A respectable president. V.E.G. In the winter, the president has repeatedly called for an early issue of the government. As a result, there is no such thing. V.E.G. The President has canceled his work schedule, there's no time for committee meetings anymore. Still, committees are being worked on in the semi-terrestrial affairs of the government, and no one knows what is priorities and what is not. This process no longer works, and the president has to face the decision that the executives of the government have decided to humiliate the Supreme Court. President, undermine his project at the council, and now more of the housemen are running to take advantage of the confusion of the council. The president is now to announce a recession of these meetings, requiring that the prime minister of the country invite a meeting of the officers of the classes, who have not been announced the continuation of the council. This cannot be continued. V.E.G. A president should realize that he cannot accept the fact that the presidents of the administrations humiliate him in this way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u33	Mr. President. Now that the work programme is no longer in force, this work works for the head of the Environment and Transport Committee and the majority of its committees, such as war luck in here. That's it. We have not yet been allowed to see the government's priorities, but we must conclude that this is one of them and that the government leaders have reviewed it with the committees which cases should be dealt quickly with and this is one of those matters. I'd like to ask the president if he'd consider taking advantage of the position that is now in the council, but we have all the officers at the Assembly Hall or the Assembly Hall. I would like to ask the president to take advantage of that opportunity and ask for prime minister that he would gather the officers of the classes to discuss the situation here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u34	V.E.G. President. It is not to ask what people in the government section think of doing here on the scene of the council. After this morning's dramatic and planned management of the environment and transport committee, I believe the president should review it with members of the Parliament how to delay the assembly as soon as possible. I think it's all right now, and I suggest that before we get into more trouble with the legislatures, they'll find some neat way to postpone a council here. Then we'll probably have to come together for the stable tax, if it comes out after a multi-packed donation, but it can't work like this. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir The Oddný of Oddsar Harðardóttir, who spoke before me; the president should summon the presidents of the political parties and try to find clean landings for the Allied Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u35	At this morning, at a council meeting, the president explained that he expected a meeting and expected a meeting of the council members to be with today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u36	What time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u37	This meeting has now been announced. 16 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u38	To answer these questions, Prime Ministers, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Social and Homing Ministers, Marine Elimination and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Internal Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u39	A respectable president. Prior to the weekend, the government introduced measures intended to be implemented in collective agreements. It is good to see that the labor movement has been able to force the government to do a number of good things, such as repairs to housing and tax doctors, but we will see the final implementation of these factors before it can be precisely seen whether there are adequate resources. Most important, these tax measures are implemented in such a way that half of the population get little or nothing from them. If you have a median pay or less than 1 injection. K. of these actions. It is also clear that older ones are expected to stay, to be left behind, and to be left out without a job. The natiοn for 300 yοu. K. The minimum price is that it is necessary for people to make a living, that they are the basis for forwardation. It must also apply to older ones and others who rely on government contributions through the basic progress of social security to support themselves financially. The lowest improvements are now less than 200 yards. K. How will the government ensure that the elderly, the desperate, and the unemployed will also enjoy 300 of you? K.? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u40	A respectable president. It's become foreign by now. The members of the administration body, when it is announced that major measures are good for many, try to find some that they will not take, and then appear to be the dominant opinion of members of the government that there should never be any action to take unless these measures take place at the same time. This is a procedure that will benefit most citizens directly and indirectly. In fact, that is not true. A senator claims that those with the median pay will receive just 1 of you. K. of the measures presented as a government contribution in collective agreements. On the contrary, it is a diverse action that will have widespread and profound impact on all citizens, as I say, the majority of them directly and all indirectly. However, it is clear that, as with any government action, this action is not possible to solve all matters at the same time. Of course, this will continue to be discussed with the situation of disability, older citizens, and other things to be solved and replaced. Like what? A senator sees that the government continues to introduce measures and solutions that cover very large groups and improve their situation. That's how it's going to go on in the history of this government. A senator should allow himself to rejoice that there is yet another major action on a journey that holds the position of a very large part of the country directly and benefits the community indirectly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u41	A respectable president. I don't need to try to find someone who doesn't enjoy this operation. That's a huge number. V.E.G. Some time later, the prime minister will discuss the circumstances of the elderly and the desperate. During this terms, social security benefits have only increased in accordance with prices but not in line with pay development. [[Up front.]] There has been a marked difference between pay development and economic development. Today, the pay is increasing even more. V.E.G. A prime minister must answer the vast number of elderly ones who rely on the minimum social security benefits, how to ensure a decent living. If it has become fundamental to the fact that human progress has become 300 Yous. K. older ones have the right to the same thing as those who have not chosen to work at the same thing. How's the top? Prime Minister to guarantee it now, not later? You see, he has not yet fulfilled what he said he was going to do some time later in terms of solutions for a house in debt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u42	A respectable president. Much of this peculiar approach is now becoming a concern as to what salary has increased and is about to increase a lot. Hv. A senator must realize that in these measures, as with all other measures, people are trying to approach certain groups in a way that is most important to them. As a result, it is not wise to plan for a single procedure to solve all the world's problems. No, that's what people do by finding solutions in each case, and that's where the government has produced the results. A senator should not have to respond in this way. This government has forged all the action proclaimed in domestic debt and has removed all the impairments introduced by the last government to the poorer and older citizens. Total declines since 2009 were all removed. [[The president calls.]] It is true that these people can truly improve, and hopefully we can continue to work at them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u43	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Health Minister on the status of the Land Hospital and, of course, other health care providers. I think all of us who are in here must be very concerned about that situation, now that BHM strike operations have lasted a while and then we reject nurses' strike operations. I would like to consider that about 40% of the staff of the Land Hospital are in some kind of strike action, i.e. Some 1,500 nurses and nearly 500 staff in the BHM area. This happens at a time when we will see that there will be an ever greater need for health care professionals with simple demographic reasons, i.e. There will be more pressures on the health system, and we already feel it within the medical system, a greater demand for nursing. What are the numbers? Yes, we watch that in the next three years, some 900 nurses will be able to start a pension, but we are releasing 450 nurses. So we watch that there may be a significant shortage of health care professionals here. It seems to be a mess, Mr. President, in this fight that turns amongst other things, and now I say I don't sit at the table, but of course watch the news as others do. Subjects of gender pay a lot, but nurses have noted that there is a significant difference between the groups of women in BHM and the males. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of whether he thinks it is a reason to go outside the box, and I remind him of a proposal that we in the government stand up at the time of the medical strike, and a covenant committee will be arranged with the arrival of sides of the dispute and statehood to try to solve the problem. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest, too. Health Minister and hope for a negative response, whether it is possible for him to legalize this strike. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, I want to answer the question addressed to me: Is it possible to lay laws on such a dispute? Of course it's possible. The answer to that question is yes, it must be possible. There's been an example. There's been a law in a fight. In the situation that exists, I don't want to rule out any possibility today, simply not possible, for which the situation is way too serious, that doesn't make any sense, the negotiation committees don't get along. I'm aware of the situation. A member of the New World Health Organization describes and describes specialised staff, but this is not the case. That's not unique. In fact, this is the situation, and it is a health - care program in most Western lands. We're not an island in this stuff. When committees are the current pay requirements and are addressed and referred to as one of those factors, they include: sexual differences in pay, you also ask yourself how it is presented. It is true that about two years ago, there was a special effort to balance the sexual pay within the medical profession. It was the last government to take the lead in carrying out that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u45	Step one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u46	Even so, we still have that requirement. Didn't it go too far?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u47	That was the first step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u48	Why, then, did they not trust to go all the way? I assure you, this operation did nothing but promote and fuel the conflict of unions, not just in the health system, but in others of society, for the benefits offered by public authorities. It was a failed operation, to be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u49	Mr. President. I asked the highest. A health minister may have felt that there would be a special covenant committee, as we suggested in the medical dispute, and he chose not to answer it, but he noted, first of all, that, of course, there would be legal rights to legalize action. I was asking the highest. A health minister, and perhaps a more precise wording, would it have been possible for him to consider it a likely procedure, since my fears in these matters, Mr. President, is that the legislation of strike action will only encourage it to the highest degree. The minister came to his answer, i.e. that health professionals educated here on land, Icelanders, move elsewhere, because there is a demand for these people everywhere. We both know that as well as I do. Ministers that these are people who have been going elsewhere, of course, because the problem is not unique. That's not what I said, either. Secretary of health, so to speak. And saying that measures to balance the pay of the sex just fueled civil unrest - should be understood by the highest degree. A minister might suggest that we just give up on sexual favors because it creates turmoil in the labour market? [[The president calls.]] I pray to the highest. Ministers to come here and put some hope into our hearts because we are all very worried. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask for some objective answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u50	A respectable president. I think there's a good reason, so I'll answer the question I didn't find out in our past relationship. A senator, to look outside the box if a discussion does not give us anything. In no way do I want to shut down any suggestion for solution in the matter of trying to bring in the debaters. If some kind of version of the reconciliation committee can do that, I'll be happier to discuss it, clearly. All that can do so, looking for ways to resolve the issues we face today, is good. I'm glad that the government's in charge and what. A senator suggested a particular idea for discussion, a matter of course. But I note that the situation up there is that it cannot go long. [[The president calls.]] In some way, we have to look for ways to cut the knot that is there, because that's not how it can go any longer in my opinion, even though I'm not ready to mention any particular date. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u51	A respectable president. Before this morning, I have reiterated my opinion that the council is out of control. Now I'd like to put my suspicions at ease that the economy is out of control too and that's a failure of economic control. Unfortunately, in Iceland, things grew up to this point and are still a lot of controversies. They're leading to a significant increase in pay, and you just have to hope that your job life depends on them, but tax reductions and very large numbers of tolls, which, of course, are in many ways a great deal of them. This comes into the environment of debt deposits, which is a highly controversial operation of 100 billion plus, mainly concerned, that mine knows to divide money to earning hair. It is called the construction of social apartments, which is very extensive and expensive, that the construction industry is fully building hotels and apartments of another kind, and its rural communities have plans for buildings as well. This article discusses the development of very extensive activation projects. And then you're gonna have to take it into this environment. I reiterate that these teams alone are many who and most of them are good, but after all, I think we're looking at the possibility that we're going to repeat the 2005 failures that ended in 2008 collapse. Overture. I simply want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he worry that we are going to sail into an uncontrolled period of overexploitation, oversized interest and business halls? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u52	Mr. President. There is every reason to discuss the economic issues in this context, which leads to the overall context of the objects. You're right. One senator noted that in terms of the magnitude of human exposure, some form of inflation pressure will be put, but I feel that we are coming to a conclusion that is somewhat less or less sensitive in terms of inflation than many of the things you heard during the past few months, and I was afraid that the final result would be. How do tax reductions compare with these changes? We're implementing tax reductions to support the implementation of collective agreements, and we're allowing them to take effect over longer periods of time, so I don't think they're very supportive of collective agreements. The reduced clothes and shoes will move shop back into the country, and this is not to my mind to disrupt this balance. But if we take a look at the economy and step away from just the clumsiness that have been and see what's going on, what's going on, we're now if things get really played out of the longest continuous interest in the afternoon, that's very positive. There is more growth in maps in Iceland than in most places. But how we're going to deal with inflation may be the big question. It is also of utmost importance when one cannot say: At the end, it was all about the Icelandic crown to blame. The labour market must cooperate and cooperate with the government if it is to be kept back from inflation and to bring down the growth. We've been offering such an offer. The labour market has put unusually high pressure, but I believe that every situation is in order to successfully corrupt the size of these large sizes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u53	A respectable president. I think it's harder to manage the economy in the time of life than in a crisis. I think the biggest failure of Iceland's economic regime has been made in good times, and this indicates that time, somehow, to do good, tax downs, pay raise, promote construction industry, and so forth, and then to throw in the activations too, hopefully not. It simply leads to overfishing, and we are under conditions where we will again become a dominant business hall, a high growth, an influx of capitals, and it will result in disaster for all, especially for those who are left behind in this process, as noted earlier today. There is reason for caution. I miss the fact that there's no more emphasis on the long - term thought. We see a great deal of national and national forecasts, consultations in various fields have almost been resolved. We have a government financial law in progress. How is that approach to the terms of the government that we have seen in the past few days of their legal arrangement? Don't you need to improve your long - term thinking, approach with the aim of developing a variety of jobs, making more money from the resources and more valuable productions in society in order to live up to all of this? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This needs to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u54	Mr. President. I think this speech was called in handy with the other talks involved in the government just before and with other ministers that it is now necessary to meet the demands of the nurses for centenarians each year in the year after year, i.e. If we received more of these talks, the other talks may be a little lower. I was standing here defending it at the time that we did not negotiate with doctors who set up a 50% raise in a few years. If we were to get together to take out the benefits that are available to the economy slowly and slowly, it would be a gypsy suit that would be as valid as it was best, I think we'd be very successful. I see that the labour market is too scattered, it does not stand by the government, nor does it question whether the government is on his side. We need to rebuild trust in government and employment markets, and that is not something that has happened in the past year or that has been over two, five years, that is a much longer story, decades of history. [[The president calls.]] They need to rewrite the box on the labour market in Iceland and put together to protect low inflation, cover interest rates, and agree on how we divide the space that is present at any given time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We are still in that situation, trying to take out more than there is already.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u55	President. On May 21, Venice police closed the county lodge at the Venetian cod, the introduction to Moska. It is the work of the artist Cristoph Büchel of the Santa Maria Della Misricoria Church in Venice. An announcement from the National Center for Public Arts reports that from the beginning, the Venetian authorities displayed great suspicion over Iceland's contribution and tried to put a stone in its streets rather than pay for it to go without a crash. Then the announcement says, with the permission of the president: For the past month, the publicist and artist and the whole show team have worked hard to answer queries from Venice authorities, but each time they have been answered, new queries have been obtained. The main objective of the town government and its presentation centre has included whether the work is a work of art or not, despite the public contribution made by the Icelandic chalet at the Expo. The President's permission of the President's presentation centre for Icelandic art is quoted by Eiríkur Þorláksson: At the same time, by the closing of the Icelandic contributions in Santa Maria della Chiricoria Church, it is evident that the Venetian dimer in art, which has been one of the main international cohesive arts for decades, it is not the scene for free arts, where artists can bring attention to the affairs of the moment. Artists chosen to participate in the Venetian divinity now seem to be restricted to subjects acceptable to governments, or at least considered safe. This is why I want to ask the highest question. The minister of foreign affairs with whom he and the Icelandic government are involved in this matter, what has been done on the part of the Icelandic government because of its closure, whether the foreign service has established the artist and the members of the show in any way, whether the foreign service and the Icelandic government have somehow sought to correct the wrongs that have been faced with the Icelandic program, and, in the last place, whether Icelandic artists acting in behalf of the people have the basic rights of communication that have been used by our government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u56	A respectable president. First, it is reported that there has been no way in which this case has been placed on the table of the State Department or foreign service. I don't know that if you let me put it that way, it was a special request for the purpose of the ministry. We have also felt that it was not right for us to get involved directly in the tactics or when other countries, foreign countries, use their potential laws, and so on. In this case, it is certainly an event in a foreign country where Italian laws and Italian rules apply. I've actually just watched this through the news, the case hasn't come on my level, as I say, and I haven't seen a reason to intervene in it in a special way. The pain, as I say again, I know it from a news transfer, is KIM's decision or office, which is actually their responsibility. I think it's their answer to why this job went out and all that and whether it was to raise some questions and such. Nor have I seen that there was some kind of threat to the artist or something like that, I haven't seen it. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator calls out here the freedom of expression. Of course, our freedom of speech is precious to us in Iceland. I don't know how Italians see the freedom of expression or which rules and regulations are already involved, so this case has just not come into my table, so I have not seen any reason to take anything into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u57	President. I'm kind of a little speechless, for it was very clear when I asked to have a word with the Minister on what the matter should be, so I would have felt that a minister would be a bit involved, if I may have expressed my disapproval that the minister has not done so. It is quite clear that there is freedom of expression, not only to Icelandic artists at the world's Olympics, but also to the right to an expression law available in Italy. The main reasons why the mosque has been closed many times. Certainly, a spokesman for Iceland in Venice has opposed this case, which is a problem, so this must be heard under the secretary of foreign affairs in that respect. I would like to point out to the minister that it is very important to make such a large show of Iceland, as I said before, the Olympics of art. So I'm amazed that a minister has not made any progress in the matter, even though the managers of the show have not contacted the minister. [[The president calls.]] Tryin' to talk to the minister of Education, and he's totally ignored the artist's requests and the managers of the show.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u58	A respectable president. As I told you before, this case has not come into my desk in the Ministry of State, nor has it been complained about me. I don't know what to say. I don't know what to say. A senator can say his disapproval of the minister or anything because of me. I also have a few things to say that I do not approve of what is bad. A senator and her manner. But if this case comes into my table then, of course, I will handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u59	Mr. President. However, the completion of a panel according to the government's work programme and outlining the activities of the government is becoming clear, including the day's news. to the joint of collective labour agreements, as has been considered here. However, the way the funds are to come to finance this operation has not been established. In view of this, the largest world record of a government action is the debt of debt, a part of what has been premiumd by the money the Minister has taken over here. I'd like to ask now if it's the highest. Ministers will answer the questions that Jakobsdóttir and I have asked and have been asked since November, which included asking how the total amount of the correction would be divided to reduce the financial mortgages of individuals between the decrease in capital and the detriment. There were a lot of questions. They were one of 15 people from Katrín, I've heard five of them already. Then I had another four. There was to be a report on springtime, on the spring council. Now, the spring council is officially over, even though we're still here. So it's worth asking if it's the highest. A minister sees that he comes in here in the days he thinks he's left of the council and answers the questions we've been waiting for us for a very long time for the controversial action that is due.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u60	Mr. President. First, the financing of the government's efforts. It is clear that by increasing income, the state will enjoy higher tax payments and has sufficient space to yield something of that tax, as well as that we have said that the previous plans for the reduction of insurance costs need to be waited while stressing the reduction of income taxes. There was an excellent agreement with the employment sector in general, but in a national budget set up on the income side that the insurance fee would be reduced by up to 5 billion a year. This will match the loss of income tax, but there is an inaccurate scientific plan for loss of income. We're actually looking at those numbers completely in a two-way world and comparing: if we have this section of pay and we put this tax, what's going to come of it? - If we lower the tax, what'll come out of it? That's how the numbers are found. In real worlds where we live, things do not happen in such a simple way but will be left behind by the homes and back into the economy and make income for the state, e.g. in the valuable tax system and elsewhere, and even people are willing to make more effort with a lower tax percentage that will also return. Regarding the report, the answers, I've been asking if we have enough information in our systems to provide these answers, and they're working on getting them together. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm going to have a final answer to whether we have to wait for the pressure of the governor, but I think we have more information now than I had at the time of the council hearing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u61	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. As it turns out, this was the case with a giant operation without its effect, i.e. how she split up, who she came best. There have been many conflicting views on this subject. If the minister feels that he can do this but, as he says, if we have to wait for stress, are we referring to the fact that this report will not be delivered until autumn days? It will be nearly a year since the query was submitted and a while since the operation took off. I suppose you can ask yourself, a respectable president, regarding the 5 billion and the highest. A minister referred to the reduction of insurance fees in the GDP program, whether the insurance will not be reduced within the four-year period covered by the national financial programme. I expect the minister to come to the branch office and introduce the actions the government was playing out because it wasn't as if there was some small thing being said. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They were swinging out a housing support that is comparable to my rural society in the form of a number of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u62	Mr. President. In terms of the insurance fee, I view it as delaying. I still believe, however, that it is important to work on the reduction in insurance. However, I confess at the same time that I have asked myself that when employers raise their salary as much as they do in recent years and are now negotiating a huge increase in pay rates, how burdensome this is, which is being called on to reduce insurance pay when men at the same time can raise their pay by 6%, as they did last year. Is the lack of a 1% decrease in what's choking them? No doubt this will come out differently for individual companies, and I'm sure this is the worst for a man - made small company. As to the information, I'd like to remind you that when they presented the debt measures, very detailed information was published, especially in fact, about how this would spread to individual types of homes by the number and type of homes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But more information is to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u63	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence, over the length of a conference, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Senate puts on it. - Do they want a vote on the President's proposal? [[Foreground on: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u64	A respectable president. As I traced earlier, appointments for members of the council have been suspended so that they are in desperate trouble to grapple in the morning without anyone knowing what the government's priorities look like. We are then discussing the matter at the council, but we have not yet talked about how Congress will be completed in this spring. The plan is out, it is over, and in these circumstances everyone's approval in this room needs to know how to continue. It is entirely preposterous to make an evening meeting, not showing much openness on the part of the government's part to do for an evening meeting in these situations when people have not seen their own worth in sitting down and discussing the sequel. Now it's got the highest. Finally, the prime minister decided to take little effort to speak to other prehuman groups. That's gonna happen today, and why don't we just take it after that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u65	Mr. President. As I arrived earlier in my speech, I feel a bit of a solution to the council. There is no schedule, there are no frames set, we don't know when the kitchen day is set down and the board is not running. It is absolutely uncertain, but its members are likely to reorganize their lives as the day goes forward, for no organization can be done. If we are going to stay in the summer, which I repeat, that I have nothing to do with it, it is very important that it is done in an organized way. I just don't understand, because it's been decided to make a meeting, why we're here for an evening meeting, why don't we just try to keep some makeup and work according to standard procedures while we're trying to put down some frame on how we're going to proceed. I'll lay it on you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u66	A respectable president. There is no sense in setting up a long meeting when a meeting is made with the committees. We're maintaining the situation of war. Why don't we assume that this meeting will bring something back? Why don't we assume that people are going to sit down together to set priorities for the government and for the greater part here? Should we assume that there will still be surprises, such as at the moment? paritaprevir Þór Thorhllson's Þórhallsson this morning? Is it what we should expect, or does the president not want to try to play at least on the cards that he expects peace to be the next step in the situation rather than the situation of conflict and resolution, as the situation indicates? The reality is there's nothing going on here, i.e. The job plan is out and the board is off. There are no plans, and the suggestion to extend a meeting meeting today is completely out of the question of really wanting to solve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u67	A respectable president. So if the President here has any plan on how we're going to complete this council or how we're going to work here in the next few weeks, I'm going to discuss extending a meeting meeting, but not under the circumstances we're living now, that there's no commission, no plan, there's a meeting in the morning at most committees, and it's total kaos going on here, complete out of control. Here's a request that we have an extended conference meeting. I'm completely against it, and especially in view of the events that took place here this morning, when the government's decisions were made to continue working in such a way as to make decisions in the same way that we really do and do so in ways as unprofessional and unconventional as we have seen. In that atmosphere, we cannot agree to continue in this evening as if nothing was wrong because it is the administrative object that has declared war on this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u68	A respectable president. I'm reminded of a picture from the last term when the present day comes. The prime minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was discussing some matter and the highest. Davíð's present prime minister sat there. paritaprevir If Páll's Árnason years are now sitting - he will soon return to his seat - he kept shouting ahead of him. Prime Minister: There is no valid schedule. There were repeated pleas from the present storm. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson: No valid schedule. What is it now? Digging pauses in the seat of the highest. Prime Minister. No valid work schedule, complete resolution of the council, and we are about to decide to have a late meeting, arranged with the officers, but it is somehow as if that meeting had been lost. Is it predetermined that there will be no success in that meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u69	The president asks why. Councilmen mention other members of Parliament as full names.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u70	V.E.G. President. This morning, more part of the Environment and Transport Committee decided to take over the planning of Egls, Akureyri, and Reykjavík. Here is a matter on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, where the government is going to take over where the government's institutions are located without consultation with the Council of State, and here is also a program for which there was no hope, but is a totally useless document for a declaration of agreements. [[Up front.]] I suggest if the highest. The president wants us to become members of the Parliament at night, putting in a schedule for the Senate program, and we can use the evening to serve as committees. Doesn't look like it's gonna work. There is hardly a time in this brief morning that allows for committee meetings, as well as that we do not know from day to day when a meeting meeting will begin. We can't support this situation, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u71	Of course, the meeting that has been announced with the heads of the classes today is part of making it easier for a president to establish a trustworthy program for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u72	I believe in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u73	V.E.G. President. Here we are again taking matters into the wrong direction. We're supposed to vote for a meeting to be held until midnight at the same time as the highest level. The president has called in for a meeting at the time. 16 with the directors of the board to discuss the continuation of the council work. Is it not most reasonable that we will vote on how this meeting should be held after that meeting? As a result, I cannot at this moment support that a meeting stands until midnight and will vote against it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u74	President. I agree with the members of Congress who have criticized us for setting our priorities in the wrong direction. Therefore, I can only support an evening meeting, provided that when we discuss the very controversial matter, which is quite surprising that the program, the Council, will be the prime minister here, and will be a full part of those discussions, no matter how long they will last. I suppose they'll continue as long as the greater part decides we should stay here tonight. I also worry that there is no valid work schedule and not enough time to discuss matters on committees. For example, I would have considered it a success to have a meeting of committees tonight. I hope there's something coming out of this meeting with the presidents and thanking the President that he's set up a meeting for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u75	A respectable president. This situation is a characteristic of the Council, a sign that there is always more in this regard to smaller parts in this time of the year. This is a characteristic that the lesser part has no power at all, except by making the most of its freedom of speech. This is a sign that the majority of the items do not seem to show much will in an effort to resolve the situation. Of course, there have been ideas of compromising the freedom of speech between members of Congress and such. I have to propose again and again to address this crisis of the council, we are to bring the power closer to the nation so that the nation can act in such a way and also reduce the number of members of the council. Then we wouldn't have to be here all the time scraping about the conference board and the duration of a meeting as we do now. This time of year would not have to be so repugnant. We could do much better. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u76	A respectable president. I sincerely ask the President to retract this proposal, to hold the meeting with the officers of the Party at the time. 16 and if nothing gets together there, you can just come back here and discuss this proposal again. I don't think it's a good idea to enter a conversation between the presidents by making a decision to have an evening meeting. I'm going to pray to the highest. A president would be pleased to do this and thus show a good willingness to bring in the afternoon a discussion of how this Council should be held, but let these wars justify and be held sacred.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u77	A respectable president. It's totally out of control here. The President can't tell us anything about a council meeting in the next few days. The President cannot tell us anything about the board, what is the value and what is not, when it should be mentioned and when not. The President can't tell us anything about the government's priorities. How can you back up a evening meeting without a evening meeting having any support on the meaning of where we are going with the General of the Days and Weeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u78	The schedule is in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u79	It is quite different to put it this way, completely irrationally, and I pray to a respectable president to at least try to adjust the discussion so that we are not going to war directly into the meeting of the officers who have been announced here. 16 So we do not wear our war gloves on the floor when the meeting begins. It is important that there is a real desire for a president to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u80	It is the real will of the president that the meeting today will bring as much success as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u81	A respectable president. I support my whole mind the suggestion to have a night meeting here. As a matter of fact, I've thought the President was having way too short a meeting at a council. [[Up front.]] I've been watching it. I've been abroad, and I can't have a part, unfortunately. [[Up front.]] Hv. Senator, I'm sure they'll let you get the word for a further conference administration, if that's the case. However, I would like to remind them that we need to make good use of the time. [[The president calls.]] I agree with the government that we need to explain the time we're going to be here. I remember that when former prime minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and then the president of the Senate announced that we would have a summer council because all we had to do was work. Then it wasn't supposed to be a summer council out on June or out of July, it'd be just a summer council, no dates. I'm thinking we should have a council for the summer as we complete the fundamental issues that await us. If I remember correctly, we were here in the summer of 2009, and probably in the summer of 2010, to complete the issues that then the government had on its side and stressed. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I think there's every reason to be. And another, a respectable president, is that too. Now we've got what. Pirata's members announced a filibuster. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Both of them. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. paritaprevir Since Hrafn's Helgi announced a filamentist, there is every reason to have a meeting until tomorrow. You should stop, Mr. Honorable President, with this welcome. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u82	The president asks why. Councilmen mention other members of Parliament as full names.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u83	Mr. President. It is especially fitting for those in the government to adjust for peace. In particular, the progressive schools do well, that's not over-historic. Looks like the highest. But I encourage him not to take advantage of the authority he may gain here on the part of the government, which I expect not to be involved in tonight's discussions except to a very small degree. [["What, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, ……]] On the other hand, I would have liked to, as most of the members of the United States, to show respect for the national games at 4 p.m. 6:30. I'm asking if there could be a break just during that ceremony and we could come back to the council if a president is eager to have us here in the night. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u84	A respectable president. This is not a teamwork, this is not a conversation, and what we are experiencing is the cost of it. I'm sorry, there's a lack of consultations like this in the Assembly Hall. When we had a similar situation at a meeting with a president on Thursday, we simply managed to negotiate how we should complete our assembly on that day. Then it looked as if we were meeting until the time of the meeting. 20 and most people were happy with that. Meeting ended at the end of the day. 18th That's what humans get out of talking to each other. Of course, it is possible to rejoice to see such a crowded Ministerial class today to participate in a vote on this subject. It's like who were in political trouble, but of course we're just supposed to talk about it and find a common conclusion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We're not supposed to be doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u85	V.E.G. President. I was going to criticize the order here because it's obvious why the vote is taking place now. That's because of the highest. The president is not counting on to get the top of the board in a house later this afternoon. [[Up front.]] Of course, it would normally be best to meet with the executives and review them first. If things go wrong and they think they have to use greater power, they can come together for a vote later today. As noted above, we have also been in votes last week, and people have observed the release of individual cases. Three to four ministers of the nine voters have been at the voters. But what I find most interesting in this discussion of the vote is that it is now the highest. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson's minister has found himself a role model. I'm going to ask him to use that model more often, að Jóhanna Sigurddótttir is the leader of his life regarding a government in the council and in the community. [[Up front.]] I'll give him some good advice in this regard. [[Up front.]] [[Arrangement: By a summer council?]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u86	A respectable president. There's a big misunderstanding at the Top. Minister that the person standing here announced a filament of speech. I'm pointing to it as the highest. A minister knows, and a World of Congress knows, and anyone paying attention at the council knows how things work here, but not today, not in these matters. There are a lot of issues on the program today that there is no disagreement, and this is one of the days I would not expect a filibuster, if I'm to say exactly what it is, in the last few weeks. V.E.G. Minister knows exactly how this works. There's no argument, now I'm saying this for the millionth time, pointing to the last government and talking about how bad it's been and repeating the same game, that's all nonsense. That's him starting-out, that's bullshit. However, we are to be honest about how things work here so that we can start the discussion that has, fortunately, begun on how things can be fixed. To explain the solution to that problem, we need to discuss the problem honestly. I have. I have not proclaimed any language here, nor have I given up the charges. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u87	V.E.G. President. I come here to emphasize the stand taken by the United States Parliament that we are opposed to a special evening meeting, especially when I have considered the lack of the available program. It was a lot to get to the top. Secretary of State came to the council, and I give the highest order. President for setting up with the highest. A minister who dares not bring his affairs before the council but ignores them with embarrassing letters. I wish for the highest. The president will show us more respect in my part. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u88	A respectable president. I suppose those who vote with this suggestion will be here in a conversation with us in the memory of the parts that have been more and less involved in these evening meetings, discussing matters, trying to do it materially and objectively, without having any conversation, response or opinion from the administrative sector. [[Up front.]] I assume they're going to be here and the highest. The prime minister will discuss with us changes in the Council of Government and other matters and members of Congress in general. This is not how it goes, and I say again and again that the President has made this suggestion, along with what happened this morning in the Environmental and Transport Committee, threw war gloves in the chamber. It is now in harmony with this and confirmed by the administrative body. This is not the best way to talk about the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u89	A respectable president. A brief continuation of my last talk. This was a crisis situation in 2009 in 2010, which may not be the only subject that is not discussed here, such as the dress code. Away from that, I vote against extending a council meeting simply because it is not a matter of how long it would be. This is where the highest threats were made. A minister, for he should be until the morning. I have to be at what? The General and Education Committee this morning to discuss the authors' laws that are very important to Pirates so I can't vote for an untimely conference. I think I'll start complaining from time to time. 11 or 12. I vote against the proposal primarily because of that fact, as well as the fact that I'm against us, we keep letting these symptoms of our problems get in our way. There are solutions to this crisis that we now face in connection with the activities of the council. We're supposed to be discussing these solutions a lot more serious than we do right now. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u90	President. I have to say something. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson says we should try to find solutions together. To set up an untimely meeting is a very strange practice. Nowhere else would such practices be viewed as healthy or in order to make peace. It's just reality. It's very bad to come into such a wartime atmosphere in a storm. There are some very sharp parties here, and proposals to put on an untimely evening meeting are not to help. It's just that way. I think it's strange, and it would certainly make it strange for many others, that those senators who vote for us tonight to discuss, for example, a very controversial matter vote by which, if not, when the discussion of the matter takes place. I think it's a strange procedure, and everyone else in the community thinks it's a strange procedure. [[The president calls.]] We need to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u91	A respectable president. I think a lot of things over the top words. Minister of Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, who will be brought to the council president. He supports the Council's President from the General Assembly and thus reflects his position, not just himself as a minister to the Generals, who has repeatedly appeared here by letters and espionages, but, unfortunately, in all too much of the government in general against the General Assembly. It will not be a pleasure to have a secretary from the government of Iceland brought him to the President of the Council. I do not subject myself to the president's office and on behalf of the Generals to speak in this way. I make serious comments to what and to that, in this way, makes the highest possible. Ministers like the Council of the Council are under the heel of the Minister and the Government. It is truly to be reflected in this vote here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u92	Mr. President. At this time of year, since the council has not already worked, there would be nothing unusual about the need for an evening meeting. On the other hand, I object to making an evening meeting at the beginning of the day as everything seems to be in a clear sense of purpose. Of course, if something positive comes out of the meeting of the leaders today, it is possible to vote after him whether one needs a meeting tonight into the organization that might then be arranged. If there's no planning, I don't think such a meeting will go by much. If the only reason for today's vote is that it needs to be allowed back to the administrations and not to be blocked into a possible vote in the future, I have very little sympathy for that view, a respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of State wants a summer council. Looks like everything's going to turn him into his wish. But I remind people that even the greatest find in the summer does not necessarily result in a great deal of chaos. It should be the current larger part, at least Some in him, well - acquainted with their experiences during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u93	V.E.G. President. I will vote with this, but notice that here we are getting a case that could be entered by two, three months ago. There's nothing to justify bringing this on now in June. This is part of the problem we are dealing with, despite the initial talk at present. It's been a matter of getting things back into the council so that we could improve the procedure of the council, I've rarely seen them arrive later and more at the last minute than at this council. Some of them haven't arrived yet. They're being announced, and they've been offered all the time next week. There's always a new week, but it's a question of whether we can't stop the council and just take the week in the beginning of September to get this matter. I'm gonna back this up because I think this case needs payment, but I'm gonna call it in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u94	President. I vote against the case, not because I'm against it, but because I'm against it. It was promised that when we started this terms, during this election, and at the last, a great deal of effort would be made to ensure that cases would come in at the right time and if they didn't, they should just not get paid, not unless there was a special date issue and something to be dealt with. V.E.G. A minister has had plenty of time to work on this matter and therefore enter the council on time. This lack of discipline from the Commission is a fundamental reason why we are in serious trouble at the Council. This is not to promote the respect of Mr. General, Mr. President, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u95	V.E.G. President. I think it would be good advice to let this matter slide. A word of caution has been received from the surgeon general's office and during the council as a result of the discussion I have discussed that has raised questions in the mind of many on the subject. It goes on to harmonize with the rules of advertising in printing media and TV. People want to match it up and let TV advertising, but who's getting along? Advertisers? Manufacturers? The consumers? Hardly. TV advertising is nothing but an advertisement in a printing medium. There are indications and warnings that are more likely to not include thought - provoking commercials on television. [[Up front.]] There's a lot of difference between these two. Although the secretary of finance laughs at this and feels corny not wanting to allow advertising on television, I think that in the community, people are concerned about this trend. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that this case be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u96	V.E.G. President. I come up here to state that the Group of Congress will support this matter in this vote, but we will call the matter into question between 2 and 3. In view of the long - term and detailed discussions, different interpretations of the Council were made to make changes between 14 and 16. The law. We feel that the matter must be reviewed in the committee's discussions so that it will be clear how free-selling publications as well as prescription medications in the medical journals will be handled in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u97	V.E.G. President. I signed this opinion in advance, but after the much and good discussion at the IIst Hall. I'm really thinking, and I think it's gonna take a little more than that. So I'm going to sit by and don't vote on this discussion, but trust that once it's called back to the committee, she's going to take this case into her head and get a better look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u98	A respectable president. Of course, it's not easy to publish free sales, but I didn't think that in the discussion it was entirely clear whether the sellers are obliged to inform me about the side effects of drugs. I think it's very important that consumers get that information because the fact is that the sellers maintain positive qualities and say less about the negative, if anything. I think it's absolutely fundamental, and I think it's the highest. Special attention should be paid to informing the general public more about the adverse reactions of medicinal products. Of course, if advertised, the three to five most common and most serious adverse reactions should be listed. I think it's normal. I'm going to sit by like others who've been on the platform, but I'm going to say that there's nothing wrong with making an advertised statement. That's the information to the consumer I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u99	A respectable president. I intend to vote with my bill and my new proposal. I think it's a very worthwhile discussion, and it's true that side effects need to be clear. This medicine is all the same as to be used in conjunction with your doctor and users should be aware of side effects, but information about them should, of course, be provided with the medicines themselves. As for the TV advertisements, because we're talking about them here, TV is no longer in my opinion the most influential commercial medium. The Internet is. I think we'll be able to achieve very late control of the better, so we'll vote with this bill and a change proposal, but in part, on the grounds that it will be discussed again between 2 and 3. to try to find out what remains of some people. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u100	President. I will be sitting by in this account for the indications that have been identified as a nomad that has to be corrected. I agree with what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's jealousy must be shown in advertisements if there are any side effects. I think it's very important. I have noticed that in other countries, including in the country of freedom, etc., the United States, the law has come to be in such a state that almost nothing is heard in the advertisement of various drugs because it is so much text or so much of the advertisement has harmful side effects. I think it is very important that we consider how other countries do this before we make a complete decision, but if we do not oppose this bill, we do not allow it to disqualify me. I'm going to sit by the traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u101	Mr. President. I felt compelled to come up here because there is certainly a difference between advertising in media and audio and video media on the other hand. Audio and image media are considerably more useful for what we can call image advertisements. I feel in this case. Councilmen should listen to the surgeon general's warnings showing that the purpose of such increased advertisements is, of course, increasing the use of drugs in the country that is now well known. I think that's what we're talking about. Councilmen do well to ask themselves exactly what the purpose is by allowing such presentations of drugs to become available in this market and listening to those who warn, to those who are experts in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u102	A respectable president. Basically, I think it is important that when people use drugs or other products, they read the package leaflets, read the information provided with these medicines, whether they are free-selling medicines or other medicines, that they are aware of them. I'd like to, and I expect that there will be a detailed discussion of how to handle side effects based on advertisements. Since I have lived abroad, I noticed that advertisements were simply saying that the drugs could cause serious side effects - and people would stop noticing them. I think it's far more important that people should be aware of the medications they use in general. But again, I trust the committee will do their good work between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u103	Mr. President. I feel that we have a case in our hands that we're supposed to get from something that's not all that's not forbidden. For example, we should first assume that it is okay to advertise a drug like all kinds of herbal plants that are constantly advertised on TV. Still, we rely on the prohibition against advertising prescription items in the media, but when we approach such a subject, which individual media can achieve their goal better, I say in my mind that the servers are available to communicate with people. These are not dangerous forces in the community for which we need to protect the public. It's just the wrong thought in things like this. In this matter, we are to assume that it is okay to get information on the freest drug to consumers and that there is a need for some special justification to maintain a ban in my mind that has become out - of - date. It cannot be justified by the fact that there is such a difference between photon mediums and printery. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u104	A respectable president. I sometimes forget about advertising in general that it also has a positive purpose; it has the purpose of conveying information to consumers. It may be important for consumers to know simply that these medicines exist that could possibly make their lives better, allowing people to deal with any problems in the case of drug use. It may be nice to get this information, and advertising is a factor in providing it with information. There are some factors to be taken care of. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's list of adverse reactions is very important to be clearly identified in these advertisements. Although individual senators in our ranks make these warnings, hopefully they will respond in the treatment of discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u105	V.E.G. President. The changes we are discussing are two. They are involved in the advertising of medicinal products directed to health class, while advertising is ads of commercial products in which current legislation specifically forbids advertising of such drugs on television. Then there is little solid evidence that the ban can be taken away in current law, so the certainty needs to be taken away, and the other is that there can be no difference between media, even though such differences may have occurred at the time. I support the views presented on the welfare committee and members of the Committee, as well as on the reasons for these changes, including reference to the Marketing Authorisation Holder and the Summary of Product Characteristics. So I'm saying yes, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u106	Mr. President. I haven't made it a problem in Iceland without medication. On the contrary, I know that the people are world champions of using drugs. So I'm a little surprised at the discussion we have here, and it turns out that you should want to clear out the rules to advertise a medicinal product that is a tricky phenomenon. I think increased drug education, including their side effects, diet and exercise, is what needs emphasis, rather than paying the street to place more drugs on people. I don't like to cancel the restrictions on drug advertising, and I'm totally opposed to relaxing related drug traders to inform clearly about the side effects of drugs. I feel that the presentation and discussion of drugs should be carried out in medical journals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u107	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill. This is a meeting for rural development on a land below five pickets. At the same time, agrienvironmental development for agrienvironmental use is being ensured here that it will remain in agricultural production. At the same time, I hope that this bill will provide the basis for solving the years of differences between farmers and the State's land healings that the land has taken to cultivate and deal with the conflict when the land is returning it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u108	A respectable president. The last thing I want to do is keep fishing companies or other societies in this country from doing their work. But I'm not convinced that this change in salmon and trout law, as it is said, is entirely consistent with the view of intertwinment in hunting communities. As it's said, I say, and I mention that there's an estimate that hunting societies are allowed to assign property to related functions. I believe that such arrangements have to be made in perfect harmony with Article 1. the layer of salmon and trout fishing, i.e. consistent with sustainable use of freshwater fish stocks. So I don't vote with this case between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u109	A respectable president. The issue here is a great deal I'll be supporting, but still with a new arrangement of 12. The point, which means that from about 2020, after five years, the fire will be forbidden. It's forbidden, but allowed by exceptions. There is no scientific evidence to support that authority. The researchers and scholars who have visited the Committee told us that there had been no increased nutritional value for vegetation, that it will be greener until, but this is the classic case where the rights of the many against the rights of the few have been tested because there are very few people who apply for these provisions and do these things, but this affects very many. If my proposal is not accepted, I will still support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u110	A respectable president. I support the matter and believe that it is well prepared by the Committee and is important in many ways. Yet, I would have liked to see more emphasis on what was presented in the Weather Room comments about relating this coverage to the general nature issue. Make that up as a boy. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall made this clear, and it's about banning fires on the slid from January 1, 2020, the change I consider to be of the good, thus supporting it, and thinking that it will be approved for good by the arguments presented in the speech of the decision. A senator, i.e. that burning is not for anyone's good. In effect, this is a mere cultural matter, and giving these five years as a adjustment to put up with feelings of pain in Iceland is very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u111	A respectable president. I'm going to support this case, even if I think it's strictly unnecessary. This is one of the matters that are passed through the council and that take time from members of the council and the Ministry. Exploitation is currently illegal and must be applied for permission. I think that's enough. It is not enough to insist on a strict ban, but it is also a national penalty. Most of the time, young children are playing, and no one can fix it, even if it starts in here and there. But here it is suggested that punishment be given from lighting fires for up to two years. A respectable president. The punishment is being directed to the wrong people, and not enough, but the punishment is being made ignominious by administering this act with these laws. I'll let me have a vote with this, but it indicates that this is one of the unnecessary issues being taken through the council. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u112	The president also asks the candidate to use his words in moderation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u113	A respectable president. It's a good thing to do, and I'm happy for the solidarity that's been about, not just in the committee but hopefully in the Hall. I imagine there's a good deal of agreement on this. In fact, tendons are very on the decline, but it is necessary to limit them even more. I noticed why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall had proposed an adjustment proposal that I had not studied, but unfortunately I can't support. I hope, though, that it will be discussed here at the previous council because it may well be at some point when ban is necessary. But I do not recommend that it be done here and now, so I will not support that adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir for pointing this out. In the 10th. there are laws against breaking these laws and regulations in accordance with them. Crime involves fines or prisons up to two years unless there is a greater penalty under other laws, which are then specified. This same law is under the law on transport in the country for employment. It's a prison song. I don't know if it's two or three years from now. I've got this very thing made up of the fact that we really need to see if they're going to put prison punishments on that kind of law, job transport, and tendon burns. I want this to be particularly examined by the Committee between 2 and 3. We really need to give a warning about putting prison punishments on such offenses, and I want it to be specifically examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u115	The president would like to know before further the fact that those who wished to address and explain their votes after their votes began will not arrive according to the norm.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u116	A respectable president. Haven't they heard the song? Love is like a tendon fire. Love is magnetism. A small spark often becomes a great fire. The adjustment proposal presented here is intended to prevent such a fire. In addition, tendon fire, burns, no scientific value. It has not been proved in any way that it has a positive influence on vegetation. However, it has a dramatic impact on everyone's air quality. We are to base our decisions here on scientific evidence and the best available knowledge. That's not what they're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u117	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synonym. 1362, which is the 775th case, for the treatment plan and the provision of the total resources that are withdrawn from the total population. 5 mg. Section 8. track No. 116/2006, about the control of fishing. The suggestion is based on a change of 5 mg. Section 8. The Treaty on Fish Control adopted at the General Assembly of 143, which states that a minister should be less than at least every three years suggesting a resolution to the General Reunion Plan on the management of sectoral resources for specific work, social and social measures to the next six years. The proposal presented here is made in cooperation with members of the Parliament who sit on a professional committee. I especially want to thank all of them for the fine work they did in this assignment. The proposal suggests some changes to the current system of events, which are of the main importance: In the motion it is assumed that a provision for job, social, and structural tasks will be the proportion of the amount to be considered, but it is apparent that 5.3% of the distribution of all invited species will be implemented to these projects. The total volume will not be clear until the agreed total volume is available which is not until the beginning of July as usual. Coastal fishing warrants are suggested to be comparable to the current fishing year, i.e. About 8,600 tons. Bell and shrimping improvements will be reduced by one third, from 2 ps. tons to 1,400 tons, and aim to drop in the next three years. The reduction is leading to an increase in the Based on Based on Marketing Authorisation. According to the above, traditional urbanisations will also be reduced but, as previously said, increased by the construction site, with an increase of 1 level. the codton. Has a building agency then provided a provision for 3,900 codtons in the taskfaults with successful results. Determination warrants remain unchanged from the current fishing year. For vacation purposes, 300 tons of cod will be taken into account, and the rules for them will remain unchanged. As the trend in fish farms is apparently not developing in that direction, the possibility of continuing to grow has to be stopped. The means of macroil warrants to be sold for fishing on bases and 800 tons of siled will be set aside for small boats under a particular size, which requires changes in the law No. 116/2006, about the control of fishing. Finally I mention that the Ministry has agreed with the University of Akureyri to work a report on the above measures and to evaluate their effectiveness in terms of sectoral, regional and social factors. This report is expected to be available for the next winter. At that time, I assume that there will be a new council proposal on this subject until the next six years. It is my religion that these arrangements must continue to be carefully considered so that the warrants are set aside to where they are most useful. I refer in other respects to the comments that follow the synonym, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. and that professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u118	V.E.G. President. This case has finally come to pass, and I will consider it better in a talk afterwards, but I would like to use this answer to ask the highest question. Minister of three questions facing a mackerel. What can he tell us about the fate of the mackerel bill? I have a job committee seat, and I don't think we've talked about the mackerel bill for three weeks. Second, here in the 8th team of this proposal, both the a-and the b- team, we've been talking about mackerel for small boats, and then I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Minister, how much amount should be involved. Third, this a-and-b-part team discusses how this particular amount of macroil will be assigned to small boats and I ask what the top thing is. A minister may say that some specific percentage, both for small boats and for larger vessels, might be used to offer the mackerel on a free market to take it step by step. It can also be called an attempt on fish species instead of renting it out and taking a special price, as discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u119	A respectable president. Of course, the macrollar bill in general is not directly discussed here, but it has to do with it and in the affected joint. A senator asked for what amount. It is dependent on the saying of a mackerel that 5.3% of the reports on the macronula are then able to enter these operations. Otherwise, he's not what the senators know. And 5.3% of 160 or 165 you. Tons may be calculated as 8,000,8500 tons. Then, how to move it to these fish at the base of the line is described in section 8 a-and-a- team, like the driving. A senator mentioned, which says that they will be sold at a certain weight price to boats below 30 bridgeton's size to fish in the shallows and, among other things, have the opportunity to be assigned for each ship to pay up to 20 macroil trains at a time. This is the same procedure that has been used for the fishing of small boats on the Brefjord, which will be opened too. Therefore, we do not know what the future will bring. The reason we don't have a price here is because we haven't finished the macrosil bill yet, so we can't set the price here until we have any idea how we're going to end the macrollar bill. It has something to do with it, and it's now a member of the Committee. It is also said that 20% of them will be in charge of the same price as the local government applications. This is to react when mackerel suddenly walks in large quantities at the base of a particular area and to meet it. But to ensure that the sources that have not been completed on September 1, 2015, they will then be offered larger ships for purchase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u120	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer as the highest. Minister gives it here as far as it goes. Here he says that while the mackerel bill is not equipped, it is not possible to make a decision. Can we say that we have to replace the mackerel bill or some part of it before we can finish this council plan? On one hand, for the labour markets in the mackerel to the highest level of miniboats. Minister's talking about 5.3% of your 160. There are tons around 8 ounces. a ton, but at this informal meeting area we were in, we were talking about 15 of you. tons that would make small boats. I reiterate my question because there are some ways here that may be somewhat different from what goes and happens, e.g. that these sources will not be available between boats. It's new in my opinion, and you could say that we're not sellable. On September 1, however, all ships will be offered for purchase in a comparable process. This is actually a step toward an auction. At the end, I reiterate my question to the highest. A minister on whether it was worth just one Mass to look at it with any part of these relics in mackerel to post them on auction and see what's done. The free supply of resources is widely spoken, and this is what I think is a most welcome opportunity to try this way. I reiterate my question to the highest. A minister in this regard also asks: Is it not quite clear that the mackerel will not be less than 15 of you? tons to small boats?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u121	A respectable president. Of course, in terms of the volume of small boats, it depends on the way in which you give the bill around the mackerel. It suggested that 5.3% go to small boats of 8,000,8500 tons, on more than 160 levels. tons of total. The 5.3% that came to the State at the dinner point are designed to be used by line-and-hand hunting in the base. The point is, of course, that, but we don't know in advance whether a mackerel will be walking in a base path at any given time. There is also insurance, and we can make use of the resources we produce. Of course, it is important to negotiate with other countries that we are catching up all the goods we believe would normally fall in Iceland. Whether this section provides a means of determining the price of macroil for several years, we have had the method of establishing a particular centenarian number. It's been about 16 k. The question is, Can there be any other way to find that price regarding the mackerel? I'm sure they'll be discussed on the committee, but it's not suggested in this Senate resolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u122	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for clear and accurate history in this case. I'm saying that I haven't read the case, but I thought he was a pretty clear part of it. V.E.G. Ministers know I have the best interests of the beach fishing fleet. At one time, it was very controversial to go that way, but I believe it has proved its value. I believe that the coastal fishing is significant for the scattered coastal areas and that it provides a way to create employment and the ability to pursue seawater in a more productive way than they previously could. I noticed that in his background, the best was said. Minister to reduce shell and shrimping and to disappear into the sunset in three years. He also said that in this way he was attracted to the traditional local grouse. I'm asking the highest. First of all, does he not agree that the shore fishing has proved to be good and, rather, as the time has come? Second, doesn't he think he can take advantage of the improvements falling from shell and shrimp in equal proportions between the beach fishing fleet and the standard urban fleet? Does he not consider at least one Mass to be worth considering?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u123	A respectable president. It's not quite right. A senator, or the highest. A minister has not been clear enough, that the lower shell and shrimping fraction will enter the standard base of the industry, he will go to the settlement company. In fact, this system has not been around for a long time, but there is evidence that it is our best way of improving structure, increasing employment, and meeting social rights of the various communities to do so, and therefore, the common cohesion is also reduced to provide increased sources to a eugenic institution, the cohesives we can call. However, we need more clear conclusions in a report that the University of Akureyri is working on before we go to work further. It was generally discussed in this group that the local community as such is not working as it should, and therefore it has to work. With the beach fishing, I agree. A senator says they've brought life into the harbors. On the other hand, everyone agrees that they are not very profitable in comparison with other fishing, and when people sometimes cry out loudly, since this is a place where everyone is free to hunt, the beach fishing, I am not sure that, for example, people would be willing to pay much for it. But I agree with what. A senator says that they have made a difference in keeping them alive during the summer period and, in fact, in ensuring a certain catch to land before summer processing. This is the main thing I think I can answer. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u124	Madam President. It may be that I'm like the highest. Minister of a little romantic in my approach to this point. V.E.G. A minister puts it that life was transferred to the harbors. True, the harbors have moved lives, but the coast fishing fleet has also created employment that is relevant both for those who attend the sea on these small boats and for those who earn their income in the country. This has worked out very well, I think, for most people. In the beginning, they felt that labor treatment could be found. Based on the information I've already made men want to improve it. I'm not entirely sure that the beach fishing fleet would agree that this species of fish is not sufficiently efficient, but reports may be quite different when they appear. I believe that prisoners will be trying to find ways to contribute this part of the fleet. It's not just because I'm romantic, I think it matters for these settlements. That is why I eventually agree with what was heard. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller is talking about earlier. When it comes to mackerel, it is my opinion that little boats should get more of it. I just wanted to share my opinion with you in order to save the highest. Ministers having to listen to long and perhaps not give much less thought to such matters later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u125	A respectable president. Of course, with the coastal fishing and employment, these fish would have been caught anyway, so the question is, Who's got a job? Is it the most practical thing to do? It is a discussion that we can take, and it is pointed out from economic evaluation that the fishing is not a major cause for profit. [[Up front.]] However, I think we all agree that they're here to be what they are. They are wise to decide how much to go to them. I believe and it was the assessment of the Outfit that it was in a certain balance. There were conflicting opinions. Some wanted more of this, but there's a certain balance, including some. fishing for the small boats, hand fishing, mackerel, and herring. You can't be in everything, so there's a certain balance. They started at 6 levels. tons. Then there was a provision that added them to 8,600, and we are maintaining that condition in this synonym. I think there's quite a balance there. Of course, with the small boat fleet, it depends on whether the macros are going to have a basic approach, whether they can be used at 5% on the bill and possibly this 5.3%. But how important it is that we also have assurance that we will be new to the nation so that we will be better dedicated or maintain our standing with other countries in negotiations about the mackerel!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u126	V.E.G. President. At last there is a proposal for interpretation of the treatment schedule and the provision of the source set up from the total set-up. 5 mg. Section 8. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006. As discussed in the Senate resolution proposal, they had some conferences in the Ministry on these matters. This emphasizes that there was no formal meeting point nor a formal group. As for this, I'd like to say that it is absolutely correct what is stated there, but I'd also like to say that I'm following this discussion and for more ministers to follow. There they sat down and communicated, although this did not mean that everyone would agree on the results or on what was presented. For example, representatives from the Land Association of Submarines, the Association of Fishers and Fisheries, the Association of Small Carvers and metal Technologys, the Nationality of Group Control, the Marine Union, the Farman and Fishing Association, the Coalition of Small Factories, and the Management of Marine Forces, as well as, as I said before, with a representative of the political parties at the General Assembly. There were exchanges of opinions, well - thought - out. In some ways, they were taken into account, perhaps not all of them. I reiterate that it's not the way a man stamps it right now. I do, however, think this is a good work ethic. I had the positive point first, but then I'm sorry to say that the case appears June 1 is too late. Now it needs to go to the committee, the committee needs to call out guests and get reviews, etc. and we don't know how much remains of the council. This, of course, is critical. The matter could have been submitted sooner. This quotes a report made by Vífill Karlsson, which is an excellent publication, but it lacks several factors, such as the survival of coastal boats, etc. and a number of other things that a fine person is doing rather and will be used to do. The law says that as often as every three years, there is a controversy of this arrangement, and it is about six years old. However, because of this process and the lateness of the matter, in view of their decision to make proposals for the future fishing year alone, it is clear that we need to keep in mind that this will be presented again at the next council and will soon be done. This is what we call a special employment, social and construction agency, which is of no use. We can see from what a construction agency has for a provision too small in terms of the need of a complex problem, that this results in good results, and that is what follows, it is distributed for several years at the same time. A respectable president. I didn't get tired of telling about it when we had a meeting with some of the United States members in our meeting at Húsavík maybe a year ago. There we were shown that with a lot of food from a graffiti, I remember about 400 tons, a plan was made for fishing at the Redfarves, the fine places that have been in trouble because a large part of the quatans, or most of it, have gone away. There was a plan that I've never seen before that if this dinner came along plus one that the members of the group proposed, it would have produced a process of processing for 3,35,40 people for 11 months a year, it's natural to take a vacation and a maintenance break, and something like this, but I've never seen such a plan before for the Red Sea crew, and so more places can be done. We can name Deepavog, who was in great trouble after some wise men in Grindavík decided to move from there with their entire pack of rocks. There was great difficulty, and 400 tons of it were entering the 4,000 tons that were going, of course, nothing, but there is a chance of changing it. I made up a panel of 8 teams of megapills that can reach up to 15 thousand tons. Talked he'll be sold at a certain amount of kilos. I'd like to say that I'm skeptical that the Council can deliver this power to the Ministry. I think that's where you need to put on what you're gonna sell it, in kronos per kilogram, as you do with the herb. It has been observed that the General will not be able to provide policy support in this way, so I don't think there's a number on the scene of the Committee. I also made up the subject of the remainder of macrovota 1 September. Then it is offered to all ships for purchase in a manner comparable to that of a minister. I repeat what I said in reverse. I think it's a welcome way to take a percentage of your quotas and try the auction route. So I'm saying that the receipts of the greeting charge fall down, and of course they're gonna be at the auction that's going to be there. A respectable president. A ten - minute talk on this big issue cannot be held long with each team. I say for my part that I'd wanted to see, as others have said, that the evening in the coasts would be increasing, and I'm thinking about it. Why do we not take advantage of this opportunity when there is a good situation in the sea and look as if our eating would increase dramatically? Why don't we take a certain percentage and send more in there? Why do I say that? Yes, because this, along with a modest fishing fee and other activities, is to be further reconciled to the seabed, which we are always looking for at the Council and must someday get caught because we cannot have this head work so that, in reality, only the working conditions for one year are needed, as they are today. Scaring and shrimping are being moved down 600 tons, and a minister said they were going to fall out completely over three years. It was clear at the beginning that there was a temporary arrangement, and it was decided at the beginning that the original time and duration had declined, but it has been manufactured annually. There are 600 tons taken there and transferred to the settlement, a unique graffiti of the graffiti. At the same time, the local population, the traditional one, is reduced by the appearance of 698 tons, resulting in a reduction of 1,298 tons, which is set aside elsewhere, so that 1,198 tons, in a special rural setting to cope with the problems of smaller communities, as I have mentioned. For example, I mention Grimney in that relationship. It is working to solve the major problems that result from overindulging a number of marine resources. Gímney must be considered by a graffiti facility, setting in some hundreds of tons, in Greece, as part of that restoration, in order to maintain that structure. The estimated 100 tons of vacation fishing are thus spent, but the remaining cod farm is taken down by the 500 tons that were ever there, of course, and this is the result of information that this is not going to work and that companies who were involved in it are getting out of it. Sad to say, it was abused, so it was not a small fish that was taken and placed in a coven but that large fish were put in and even taken the next day. I don't think it's possible to continue the cod if it's only done to pick up the pot that was there. There are vague details on this subject. At the end of this article, we will discuss what to do with the money available for sale in these sources and are referred to as implementing structurally related tasks under the regulations set by the Minister. I agree that this is set aside and, for example, in the national parish program, but I wonder if it doesn't have to come, and I also think about it, because it's a pact proposal, that no assessment has been made on the amount of money. [[The president calls.]] These are my first words in the 10 minutes we're supposed to talk about the Senate arrangement. [[The president calls.]] As mentioned earlier, I'm on a professional committee and there you have to board the sleeves and win this bill because of the lateness of the program. That's what I'm most critical of in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u127	Madam President. I'm glad this suggestion has come out. Of course, she could have appeared much earlier. Now that there is only a short time left for this council, there is no time to discuss this important matter about the provision of the products for social and social activities. I've been talking about it ever since I went to Congress that it's important to increase the percentage of foreign resources. The ratio is 5.3% today, but I think it would be necessary to be much higher and otherwise arranged. The bill on this subject at the end of the last terms was rented by the State and was to expand and increase the possibility of getting into the article, thus increasing innovation in the article, which I believe is very important. It is impossible to get into the fishing business today unless you have the financial resources and the access to financial institutions that ordinary people don't have. At the beginning of the last term, beaches were launched with an opening that yielded good results. I'm always getting more and more sure that it was the right decision. Although this was a long way from then on, some were content with the start of a beach fishing system. I was talking to one gorilla, as one often calls sailors fishing on my boats, for the weekend. He reasoned on the need to increase the cost of coastal fishing and mentioned, for example, that at each job in coastal fishing 15 tons in order to achieve a reasonable income in the time allowed for coastal fishing, i.e. Four months, but it would take about 200 tons to make comparable incomes for sailors on board a shuttle. I think this is a sobering thought in the context of the fact that frequent fishing is being done, that it is not practical. Certainly they are different. While individual work is created, there are, of course, multiple effects in the country's service. Coastal fishing comes with a very small cost of fishing. It is a environmental fishing process that increases the potential for weaker settlements in order to create better settlements and a potential for man to live in these places. I don't agree that there's nothing added to shore fishing, and it's just been left standing as it has been, not taking into account reports that have come from areas such as Western and Ishafjörður to learn how important it is to increase coastal fishing. The national relationship between small boat owners has also been identified. As we have seen, this interpretation proposal is only made for one year. There should be a much better analysis of how the switch to the extent of the provision has been made. The minister suggested that shell and shrimping should be removed over three years and should be taken from traditional rural areas and transferred to the construction level of the Agency. I believe that's the right decision. The analysis that has been performed in the graffiti has shown that this is a good provision and has benefited in the settlements that I know quite well, such as in Thyatira, Florence, Souththing, and other settlements, the Tribals. There, the construction market has been successful, as has been the case in other locations, through Redfarves, and other locations. I think there's a way to jump up the traditional settlement. I think he's become a child of his time who has to revise and look for other ways, both to support the shore fishing process and to have the possibility of access to a building agency. Now that there is much trouble in the smaller seas, it needs to be there for immediate intervention in preventative situations. I mean, I've made a recommendation to the council members of the green greens to consider in this context the possibility of achieving the greatest resources. I will continue to speak for it. There's talk there's going to be a change in line. I know line integration is important to many communities, but I still think we have to watch it all in the overall context when we make bigger decisions to jump this share. Then you will need to look to see if some of your work development is static. Now they're building bait engines in smaller boats so that they can jump aboard. Of course, we do not want to take steps to limit technological development in smaller boats, where there is a possibility of having machines on board. There is no dill in itself that is being used in a country. We need to look for ways to increase the number of jobs in the marine regions, guided by technology. I think we need to examine all of this in this context. No one is talking about being torn away from humans without seeing them say that there is a replacement to strengthen the country's settlements and seas in far and wide areas around the country that have basically benefited from a provision in this part of the resources, these 5.3%. As noted earlier, we had some conferences with the Ministry and the Ministry. True, we had the opportunity to share our views. However, I would like to stress that this was not as if I were to look at a discussion, considering viewpoints and suggestions from the lesser part. It was revealed that the meetings were primarily designed for information. The audience listened to our viewpoints, which were in the lesser part, but it did not imply that they would be taken into account. I feel that there is a difference between a discussion and a meeting of information that, in consultation, people want to take into account my opinion of the part, and they also feel like suggestions on working and preparing. We will discuss this further on the job board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u128	Madam President. Hv. A senator spoke of her view as the past few years ago's experience that the greeting that a building agency has for a provision that would be useful to a special settlement. I agree with her, but in general, I have felt that the common settlement would not have had the positive results in all cases, not to be pointed enough as they would like. The bill is about to lower the generalised ground level by 600 tons, and the special rural area is being increased by almost 1,200 tons, and that's a positive thing. But I would like to ask. Council: Based on the different experiences we may be considered by the members of the Parliament, and the national and local settlements, of these two species of local settlements, is it not advisable to reduce the general saying and set, to an increased extent, an increasing degree, the provision of a special agricultural facility? What does it say? A senator of that? Second, I feel that I will not contribute to the beach fishing fleet. I think he was important. It is often small investments. There are boats, and this has been of utmost importance. In many places, a minister foretold life and the fun of rejection, but it has also created employment and has enabled humans to enjoy summer seawater. What does it say? A senator of the idea that right now, because of a fine position in the sea, most likely will be added to the codfish in the sea, what does it say about the idea that a part of them will be taken to increase the number of fish that the coast can hunt and aim to increase in the future beyond those 8,600?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u129	Madam President. I'd be very much in favor of the expected increase in cod and cod would come in proportion to the beach fishing pool. I remember that in the bill that was in the last term for a discussion here at the end, it was decided that a few percent would always go up automatically into the beach fishing. I think it would be very good to link it with an increase, that there would be an automatic rise into the beach fishing section. Like what? A senator mentioned that the beach fishing was of great importance. Farmers such as Isafjörður and West have found it in their area of employment how much this has been replaced, both for its rejections and for the reduction of unemploymental records and the possibility of developing jobs across parts of a year's work. Of course, there are many, too, who are rowing over the winter but who can go on beach fishing during the summer, it surely unites that way. But I would've wanted to jump it up even more. I feel that this traditional settlement has become a child of its time. All too often, he seems to me to be in the hands of those who really need him and who have not been used to, but who would not be able to strengthen this special market of the settlements, it has proved to be well, but I feel that this settlement should be put into the strong tenets of the state, which would increase the potential for the new branch and that would be a great source of strength for the reformed settlements and that would be directed into the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u130	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is far more important to me in understanding the value of these fishing for little settlements. It comes from one such thing itself, so it can be said of itself. I think it's remarkable, and I'm glad that her feelings for the benefits of the common eating are very similar to mine. Over the years, I have made him a more French person, and I have noted that in many cases he has not been used in the way they planned. I'll also admit that I wasn't sure that this special collection department that was put into the home was going to work or serve its purpose better than the general saying, but the experience at a short time is that it has happened. I feel that we should take into account that experience, and we may consider increasing the share that this arrangement has for provision. We know that all of us who have watched fishing for a long time are positive and negative aspects, regardless of what we may think of it. Of course, the dark side is the one we have seen, for example, in the setting. Once again and again, where the owners have moved away and left the staged earth, leaving a settlement in ruins, I have not felt that the general saying could, in any way, have taken away completely, at least not sufficiently in such circumstances. So I think we agree on this. But the rest is absolutely right. According to one U.S. senator, the way to use opportunities that may be ahead now is to build a proper tenet that could be drawn, thus increasing the freshness and ability of people to fetch seawater. That's one of the things we've both fought for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u131	Madam President. I'm in the middle of a very cheap based operation and a job developing jobs is building the government's tenures and providing them with resources, like now the mackerel. This, of course, is a step in that direction, even though he is not sell - out. I like to see that this is the way it's done here, and I think it should be a model for us to set some means of resources that would increase in proportion to growth and would strengthen these settlements very much. It may not take much of it, but it is often a fear of doing something about this subversive eating system because it threatens them something big and strong, but it will not. So I'll continue to witness in the developers and trillas West when I met at the weekend, I heard from one powerful developer with a big company that there's nothing fun to be the only tree left in the woods. And there's a bit of a point there. If smaller productions have no basis and there's no chance of recent action, and the branch just getting old and disappearing, or that the big and strong have tenants to make their boats, that's not what I want to see in the future, but that men can make their boats on their own and not have to be hired by the big and strong. In view of the experience of coastal fishing, I feel that not to put fast days into each month, fishing would be much more practical than to be pressured in the doglike weather of just going outside the fanny and then bringing a small catch ashore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm going to start by saying that I don't in general favor with market income, but it's been necessary in various cases because the legislatator doesn't trust himself to think for a long time and stick to his plans. Here is an example of this, in the 11th Parliament's resolution, which says: The provision of labour warrants on the basis of this synonym will depend on structurally related tasks in accordance with the regulations set by the Minister. I agree completely with this point. I think it's very normal to make money of this, since we have market income, run to the settlement, and agree with that goal. But the case is being reassigned late, and it's taken by nature, and I'm trying to get my feet in this; this is not the law that I know the best in Iceland's legal code, but it's a Regulation, but I don't see any reference to the Regulation. Now, I may have had more time, that I had found some regulations about how a minister should do this. I wanted to ask the senator, this may not be a reasonable question, for it is a vast law code, whether she knows if this Regulation exists and whether she knows it. I'm also going to say as a player that it's really hard for me to figure out the money we're talking about here. So I would like to ask the senator if she knows if there is any of these regulations. If she knows about her, I'll ask if she agrees with her goals. I would also like to ask if she agrees with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, it'd be best to put this money on parish plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u133	Madam President. Now I'm not a seafaring minister, but maybe it's time, not yet. But as I understand this, this Regulation doesn't exist, but it's the highest. A minister may have legal authority to establish such a directive, and I assume it has been ensured. I feel the same way. A senator and a boy. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller says that some of these revenues are critical to the rural population. In the bill I have quoted, this case, since the last term, it was expected that a part of the income, which would come in due to government rents on resources, would be available for national stocks. Then I view it as useful in a program and in the construction of it. In my mind, parish plans have been one of the best rural procedures that has started and the tools that have been successful. Of course, far too little money is planned for an application plan. I think it would be a good thing to think that these funds, which are expected to come in because of renting into macroils and other species, would be useful and go through the parish program because they have the finger in their pulses, what burns on humans in the areas and in the countryside. I believe that the process should be considered because I think he's only very good and the appearance of many democratic representatives of the rural community in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u134	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers. As I noted earlier, this may have been a false question, for it is not accessible to legislation, and there is quite a number of regulations and cross-references in other laws about an even small process on these issues. I'm glad to hear about this with my parish plans because I'm very in favor of regional policy and community action. But I'm opposed to community action involving the wills to individual companies or individuals with a minister's own initiative to make a decision. I think the strategy is the real way for positive urban development, in which rural society and local citizens make joint decisions on what is becoming more urgent in each area to further it to the future. I hope this is going to be done specifically on the pro board. Then I'm just going to ask for it to the senator, and I don't need any particular answers to that, that professional authorities also try to count on it for us senators what money we're talking about for the state funds of this distribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u135	Madam President. Yes, it must be clear when discussing these matters on a job committee, what income may be involved, which could be used to build up far and wide around the country in the sealands. I think there's a need for a more mixed route. As much as I've spoken for the growth of sealands on the basis of seabeds, both land and sea, and potential for innovation; that the people who build the sea settlement have the potential for a sustainable life compared to the resources all around these seas. It is also important to look for a variety of employment and a potential for improving the range of work so that I think the income that comes in this way should be designed to increase the potential for variety in employment and to strengthen the elements in these areas such as seabeds. Travel services have been building up many places and also in smaller circles. Then they have played together, fishing routes, and tourism, such as at sea fishing companies that have gone very well and are getting very tight in these places. All of this needs to be delivered. Tourists in these smaller places tell me that the summer is where powerful coastal fishing is done very much for tourists who visit these places and see that these are not some collections and exhibitions, but are there a living settlement that thrives and survives what the land and the sea give.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u136	A respectable president. This morning it was noted that there was a planned meeting with the presidents of the classes at the time. 16 today. I would like to be like others who have been able to express their gratitude through a president who has led to that conclusion. I would like to ask the president to ensure that there will be a recession at a meeting during a meeting of the heads of the clans. I also request a brief meeting for members of Congress thereafter. It doesn't have to be long, but we need to get some space to take it at the end of a senior meeting to know how the next step will be in the Senate and whether the meeting has returned something. Finally, I want to set aside what has previously been presented in this discussion. We have come to understand that the minister of the sea has left the country, but here we are discussing a matter he recommended, and I strongly wish for the minister who will take the party while the minister of the seafaring is far away. I'd like to ask the President to make the hallways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u137	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's daughter, which is directed to the highest level. The president's appointment will be interrupted during the meeting of the chairman with the chairman. I think it's very important that we start the program and the work being done here for the next few days on a fixed schedule. Therefore, I believe it is important that there be a break in the meeting for the duration of this meeting. At the same time, I would like to agree that there will be room for a brief assembly meeting at the end of this meeting, for I consider a very important career to be followed by the fact that all members of the council will be informed and immediately informed about what is going on in this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u138	A respectable president. I want to agree with this request, I think it makes sense. We all know how the debate has developed in the high Council. I think it is best for everyone, especially for the council's sake, that this will be a meeting period until the leaders have talked to us to see how this day will develop and, hopefully, how the next day will turn out because the discussion here is inevitable, whether people like it better or worse, and whether people want it or not. After everything is vague and nobody knows what comes next, there will be no doubt that there are at least a few controversial issues soon to come. I think what comes out of a meeting between most part and the smaller part may be of importance, so I accept their wishes. Councilmen who spoke here earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u139	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity here under President's conference board and celebrate the supreme quest. High school minister to the Faeroe Islands. There he will have a fine opportunity to learn the way to preach in farewells. But during his absence, it is essential that the minister's substitute be at the discussion, and I call for it. It is also positive that the committees were summoned. It is equally normal to be interrupted during this meeting. Of course, it is also necessary to have a chance at the end of a meeting of the committees, so that the presidents can introduce their councils to how the meeting went and what ideas men have continued and can consult with them before continuing in the Senate. I wish to a respectable president that this will be the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u140	Madam President. Now we're discussing an important matter here, the exchange of the financial and regional sector and the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers are not in the room. I'd like us to get his replacement here because I know he's doing other business and he's gone to the Faeroe Islands, but I believe there's some minister who'll take over and answer the questions that arise in this discussion. I also believe it right that during the prefect meeting at the time. 4 stands and after him will be interrupted to review what comes out of that meeting, which is certainly important and we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u141	A respectable president. Today, of the program for this meeting, it is recommended that people have not been able to sit down and cover the situation the way it is. Sadly, each weekend after another and a convocation may suffer without the best efforts of one's ability to talk to one another and find another's way of landing. Of course, I'm glad that the heads of the tribes are meeting today, but I would naturally agree that there would be room both during that meeting and, of course, after the meeting so that members of the council can review the situation and resolve the next steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u142	A respectable president. I want to agree with this wish because I feel that it is normal for the officers to interrupt this meeting and then be given a schedule for members of Congress to follow. Then I'd also like to mention that I think it's important that there's a substitute minister here. It's a 1st. The matter of the matter, this is a very important matter, and I believe that men want it to be settled from the council by the end of the council, then it is important that there be a substitute minister in his absence, so that the matter be properly discussed with 1st. The point. I'm asking for this, and I'm assuming it's the highest. The president is making arrangements so that a High Priest of the Seas will arrive and attend this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u143	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by informing the Senate if anyone has missed that I'm connected to the fishing grounds both in the labor market and in the noxious market as well as my sons and my wife have a beach fishing boat. I can agree with them. The members of the council here have spoken that I had wanted to see this matter come earlier so that they could have received more detailed and more treatment. But the other should be delighted that the conversation that took place in the working group where the nominees were representative of all classes was perfunctory. There might be other matters to do in this way. Of course, the fact that the piranha was not to be viewed as a reason to participate in that work was disappointing. The group had the basis for the Vífill of the Agency's work on the Karlsson of a food market where initial thinking strongly suggests that these forms have a more structural effect than traditional groundwaters used for both measures. This is in harmony with the feeling I have and what I hear in the community and here in this room and elsewhere. [["And here in this hall]] This was almost consistent in the discussion of action that hopes are tied to the building point. I quote the proposal, by permission of the President: A more positive attitude is needed for the project and the long - term thoughts involved. Some criticisms, however, were common. Clearly, more coastal areas are being hit, and it is important to add these resources to the challenge. Other aspects of the study will be considered, and the changes made from the current fishing year are small. We'll start with the beach weather. In fact, it says in The Haggis and development that fishing itself is negative, so it is especially important to look for the impact of coastal fishing on this assessment and that work. I embrace the peace that really lies ahead of the beach fishing and hear only a great deal of peace. Once they realized that the shore fishing had come, they were not to be assigned for some experience, the initial stress and pity that they felt were working in some means. So the beach fishing is here to stay. This is not a suggestion for a change in them now. In the accompanying table, 28.22% went to the cod fishing year 2012/2013, then I aimed for this pot, 30.22% went fishing year 2013/2014, and 37.55% fishing year 2014/2015. So there has been a percentage increase. In this suggestion, the same percentage is expected which means 8600 tons out of the sea, but if we expect an increase, all of which suggests, hopefully it will be as much, it will turn into coastal fishing as any other fish. Then if we go to shell and shrimping, they'll be reduced and decommissioned in the next three years. With the shell and shrimp improvements, I have to say, in the group's work they didn't show up and we didn't get information about the development of these improvements. These are relatively few companies and narrow areas where this impairment becomes so I challenge these people to provide data. If it's the case that they had to let 30% of the cod against these sources and that only from the Shykishole went 2 thousand tons of cod, I have to say the committee has to take a closer look at this. What reasonableness is involved in this? The positive thing about the shellfish is that there is evidence that it will grow in years to come. No. 3 is broiled, this one. These suggestions assume that he is reduced. This report, although only at an early stage, supports what you hear, is more specific to the development of the country. In fact, the basic differences between the general population of rural areas and the specific graffiti from the graffiti have been seen to be that the special market for the graffiti is distributed on fish farms, while the other is divided into ships. Time and again, the greeting is not won at the site, but the urban stavoin - there are long - term fish contracts, from three to six years, I remember to negotiate. It is then both the industry and the fish that return to their communities. We're having a bit of a controversial line-up. There are pros and cons at cross-checking. The group heard voices, and the people were saying that if it was to be built, it would have to be connected somehow to a linefall. The main theme was how to link line integration to the settlements. It was decided not to make any changes in it now but to wait for more detailed data to be drawn from each class to the community. The early summer fishing will be 300 tons, as they were in the spring season. They were transferred to 200 tons on the grounds that they were not new, indicating that they will now be used to go back to 300 tons. A career on cod is removed. It is simply because it was clear that the development of fish farms is not for future breeding on cod, and sexual reforms have not been realized, so there is no future alcovement. There was no reason for this to be assigned. The corrosion. There is an experienced new route to mackerel fishing. It is quite doubled in that pot that is scheduled for small boats today and that, in part, will be distributed on some local basis. Team No. There are 9 source sources in her unit. There are 800 tons, each of which is a small boat of 300 tons. I would like to point out, though it wasn't done now, and I make a note that hookboard boats must not hunt herring in the track as is traditional. [[The president calls.]] Hookboard boats are allowed to catch grey ditches in net. I can't see that there's anything to stop us from hunting hook-by-charting subs in the track net as usual. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u144	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Paul's Pálsson's for a very clear, informative speech. I noticed in his case that he agrees completely with the attitude that I and others expressed here earlier in this discussion today that the greetings arranged to increase the structure of the world, as it is called today, are clearly more useful through the special financial department, which has been designated rather than by the previous means through the general weeks. The difference between these two is that this special saying of a building agency has a provision to assign it to fish or to fish farming. This is a way that many people have been wondering about over time to put fishing warrants in place rather, and it is possible that during the early years, it would have been better to go on that way to prevent a number of disasters that have led to what I have sometimes called the enemy or the shadow side of the saying system. But my question to why. The senator is as follows: Now that most people seem to believe that temporary experience with this species of local euphorics is far better than the way we have been using, which has involved the Ministry assigning ships to us by applications - doesn't that mean we should just cut off even this common saying and let everything go through this graffiti? Is it not only the most successful way to counteract the undesirable effects that we see at times breaks out and even remove the lame into entire settlements? What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. It's a good thing to hear it, and I think most people would agree that it's more likely to be assigned to fish than to ships. I've sometimes mentioned that maybe it's just a good idea to look it up in a certain area like we did in the optics business, that we can have a marketing area and a market area. I could have imagined that we would have colored, such as the Coastal Coasts and very remote places, where it is not really possible to expect fish to be won - in such areas, the distribution of sites without hunting grounds but in larger places where there is a basis for fishing would be a new system where it would be required to work at the place. It's all right, but we can't both ask for the highest price - if we're going to get as much money from the resource as possible, we're going to have to give companies a chance to make a move and work in modern high - tech facilitys that make the most money, and we're going to get it as practically, make the most of it. I can imagine we have 90% of the warrants in it while we're having approximately 51⁄2-10% in some community surgery.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u146	Madam President. I wasn't suggesting that all the fishing clearances be taken this way. But I'm glad to see it. At any rate, there seems to be an interview that almost doubles what is going on in rural areas. It sounds like his last words from here, and it's a good thing. But there are two other things I would like to discuss with you. A senator. I've been involved in resisting human efforts to eliminate the cross-linking process many times. It was here especially during the years of old, there was a constant attack on the line barrier. That's not happening right now, but what. A senator wondered that perhaps in some way it would be better to associate these benefits with the benefits, the appeals, rather with the settlements; and how does he want to do so, and why? Has not the acoustic line of resistance been counted as part of the ◯ mural operations that have successfully been successful? I agree with the doubts that came out of the question. Senator on shrimp and Scaring improvements. I thought it was a bit interesting to listen to what happened. A member of the congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses who was serving as a member of the congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses took a close look at these matters. He here reveals that he could not, in any way, expound any evidence that justified the continuation of these greetings. I'm asking why. A senator: There is a considerable amount of money there, and it certainly is, so 600 tons are being taken, if I remember correctly, and sunsets are expected after three years. But why not take the step to the full and do it all now, using what is left in a much more reasonable way? Does he not agree with me? It sounds like a reason. A senator has sound doubts about this, as I have said many times here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u147	A respectable president. With the double on the pots, that's just the way it is, I'm not talking about any increase. Each 5% you put in the mural past calls for another 5%, at least that way. Then we have 10% to make use of the ground forces require that the country be different, so it has actually doubled it. That's really what I meant by it. For justifying the improvements, these shell improvements, this was always a preliminary law, it was clear. What I'm talking about is that when these shelling were distributed, some people, some of them sacrificed, and others didn't, fishing permits against them. That's what I mean by what was not quite clear. If people can prove that they've made a point - and that's probably true, I suppose there are some regulations about this, so that it should be clear somewhere, at any rate, that it can be confirmed - that those people who have sacrificed against this Scaring evasion, I'm willing to look at it, but in order to make sure that you have to see something quite black in white. It's merely national inexorable because it's setting in many places where it doesn't need something that's just fine. If we're going to have this as an arrangement, we just need to appreciate it. In that respect, I'm willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u148	Madam President. The lateness of this matter must be counted as a fault. It is June 1 today, three days since the Council was due to complete jobs, and then we first begin with this proposal, which is very important. It is a source of considerable interest, a design for a significant fishing warrant of 5.3% of total fishing resources in Iceland, and a sensitive and challenging market interests. It was requested at least to replace the highest standard. In view of the supreme, a seafaring minister, or active minister of the sea foreboding. The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's foreign minister must be someone who's got to work for him. So our administration is under way that as soon as a minister leaves the foster world, the responsibility should be given to someone else who is present in the country, and I would have thought it would be possible if it were the highest. An active seafaring minister would have been there for the discussion. It will hardly be considered inconsistency on the part of the government if it does not accept the fact that the discussion is conducted without any minister or director or professional committee or head of a person to answer the issue, which seems to me to have the situation in the chamber. Third, and it would have been interesting to have a minister to answer for that, is the paper with the suggestion on page 6. 3 Concluding that because further assessments are lacking and for other reasons, it says, with the permission of presidents: ▪ In view of this, it was decided to suggest that the source of the next fishing year alone. Then one would think that the suggestion would be made that it was clear that these warrants were merely being proposed on a certain basis for a year, but that is not the way the proposal is made, Madam President. The proposal begins with this statement, with president's permission: ▪ The Council concludes with a reference to 5 mg. Section 8. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes, that during 2015/2016 to 2020/021, the total volume should be reduced... For four or five years, the suggestion is a failure between the proposal and the report. It is the suggestion, of course, that if we are to accept it as a matter of course, it has been arranged for someone to take it into account that it is in a material sense what a person intends to do in the report to take care of only one year of life, then, of course, the proposal must be rewritten in that respect. It may be an inheritance from older documents, since men were still ambitious to take care of it for years. But now it is announced in a paper with the proposal, and I think in the foreword of the minister, that the meaning is to be arranged only to one year; yet, the suggestion is closed to the date and fishing year 2020/2021 if this would be agreed on as unchanged. Fourth, of course, I'd like to rejoice that the beach fishing is still there, with about an unscrupulous part of this arrangement, i.e. that is in view of the work of the next fishing year, about 8,600 tons from seawater or over 700 cods will be spent. This is good because, of course, we know of plans or opinions in the administration categories, at least One of them, riding in the beach fishing, which I thought was a disaster, I believe, has proved its value, and well, on the contrary, so that it comes to our conclusion from rural governments to add a great deal to the beach fishing, and men give a good argument. I think those in the coastal region are the most judgmental of how important they have really been on the coast around the country, because there's hardly a place to settle or a place where there's not really a place where there's no place at least One or several beach fishing boats and up to dozens of places that have become most popular. In a number of small places, where, frankly, rejection had become extremely dull, a boat might be seen once a week or even not, now has a considerable life, and so has much to do. Economics reports are here cited that there is nothing particularly great about profit. I ask men not to worry too much, Madam President. No one forces anyone to go on a beach fishing, but men do, probably because they have at least one. In and on, make a living and make money, and do not necessarily ask for much more. You're not necessarily looking for some big-time business. But that it is possible to run the sea and thus have freedom, as it is suggested, is of great value for many reasons. I'm pointing out that this is an open track at the bottom of the factory. It's open. Anyone with permission to take a boat and get him up, go for a beach hunt, and it will control itself. Of course, if the number of people gets too high, the amount for what to do will be reduced, and then the application will be smaller in the year, etc. The same is true of profit. If it is not very desirable except for those who get the best of it, then the application and benefit of the future will likely be reduced to those who master it and continue. The very nature of it is that it will govern itself, that it rules itself, and that it does not have to worry very much. It is more our job to evaluate how much is needed in this pot to benefit in the sense it was intended to do. This too is enormous from the point of view that there are certain windows in the article. This may be the first step in raising new sailors and new builders, as such have usually been in Iceland growing up, they've started a little and growing up if they're doing well. This has usually been the way it should be raised. So I think if anything is, and if you agree to what was only earlier in the discussion, you might look for ways to improve the beach fishing. If so, I would especially like to rejoice that there is a measure of scope for developing edifices in problematic communities, in fragile areas, or in coastal areas, with a problem of trust and support for fish farming and fishing development. In addition, about 1,000 cod levels are added in the area of the graffiti and are added to it by one of the items taken into shrimp and shell reforms and by the traditional settlements as we know it and have known in recent years. I believe that experience with the edifice website is good. I know that there is a need for him elsewhere, unfortunately, and a great need at certain places, so it does not result from this space, if anything, not even being more, though, of course 1,000 are significant improvements. This means that from seawater to about 3,400 to 4,600,4700 tons, which is truly positive. This, of course, must be cared for by a well-being of a Based agency in their implementation of projects, and it is of course urgent that this proposal succeeds here, as it is reduced to the beginning of the next fishing year. It is also important to know what it is doing at the beginning of the next year of fishing so that it can use the time until the autumn to plan for the work that it will soon add to it. Only then do I want to mention the traditional settlement that has, unfortunately, been delayed to revise. It is absolutely clear that he does not achieve his purpose to the full. True, in some places it has been successful to play it and to make an excellent teamwork, without mentioning names, I know examples of places where people have agreed to use the settlement primarily within the local community to care for new companies. In other cases, it has actually been converted to improved and rural forces for the development of the relevant rural society, so that, of course, it is a good arrangement. But in too many cases, this goes another way, for men to be given an exception from their possession, and for the settlements to become a race for catching it, and the catch is then set aside for anything other than men would have liked to see. Finally, what will be available in these regional and social subsidies in the system is important. It is, of course, an improvement if we look back a few years into the future that we now have a guarantee of 5.3% of the total fishing rights. Thanks to the changes that took place during the last term, this is much more than previously, and much more is involved than in the whole of the coastal fishing business. But I believe in the future that this ratio is still too low and there is no myth that 81⁄210% of the total fishing warrants are set aside and set aside in this way, and in my opinion it could lay the basis for a much greater and broader solidarity on this system than is today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u149	President. Hv. A senator took note of the point I was going to use here with him, and he explained well what I am coming to, perhaps saying that a good reference is never too often meant. It's about the beach fishing. It is suggested by the proposal that the interest in fishing itself is negative according to the WHO assessment published in The Habitat Fishing and Processing, and therefore it is particularly important to consider the assessment of a coastal and edification programme in the report. Of course, it must be that way, when it comes to a business that clearly states, as here, that there is no profit in this article, people are going into the water. At least I'm getting a little rough. I thought why. A senator explains this in a way that did not make much of it because humans had both on and inside, and then this would be a rule of their own. I'd like to follow this question. I've heard that the remainder of the shore fishing boats is often less good or less expensive than others. I wanted to ask you what. A senator can tell me if he knows anything about it. [[The president calls.]] There's got to be something for the money as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u150	Madam President. As for the labor management, it was certainly discussed, especially during the first year of the beach fishing. They started with shame, were pushed out in the spring of 2009, and, to some extent, were neglected, had not been able to get enough equipment to cool off, iced, etc. But it is in accordance with the opinion that the past two, three years I have not heard much of the discussion that a changeer's force gives anything to another catch in this time of the year and up the shore. Of course, on rare occasions the fish taken from the bases may be not entirely the same quality as the one taken deeper off the surface, but that is not bound to shore fishing but to those in general who hunt on shallow ground. It's made a lot of shape. When it is calculated, it is a natural product of self - interest and production at the expense and equipment outlined in this article. The beach fishing is relatively young. To some extent, humans have been investing and putting up equipment for their activities, so the profits they make in the first few years are not likely to be rich and the result of their gains. Third, sometimes it is a human equipment or one that wants to be used to another. Some of these boats are out in the middle of winter fishing. It is important, then, that they continue to make pay and pay for their summer service even if they do not have much of that in addition to their income. It's a private business, the owner of the boat has to be on board, it's one of the conditions, and, in fact, people are reasonably content if they have a decent purchase and do not necessarily expect much of the money they have bound in a small boat, I don't talk about if they use it for other things too. Then you just answer with your feet, so to speak. They wouldn't be doing this if they were making a big mistake. So in view of how many go year after year on shore fishing, I put a little question mark on the interest rates. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u151	President. We're here talking about a synonym that's about 5.3% of the total resources being set aside specifically. Hv. A senator said that this was a good work, and he wanted the amount of money to be increased, and he spoke of 81⁄2 10%. A respectable president. Can the senator share with me the thought of how we should decide how much goes into this? I'm always a little scared myself when politicians make these decisions that 10% go on this and 8% on the other. I know that sometimes we have to, but what method is best? Why is this 5.3%? Why would it be better if it were 8%? How should we determine which numbers will be the best and most practical use for us in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u152	Madam President. I think that 5.3% is very close to being an account-based decision because men looked at the amount of subtractions entered the system, in coastal fishing, in shell-and- shrimping reforms, in the urban park, in the standard urban park, in line-up, in vacation fishing, etc. In the past, this was taken aside only by a bullfish, cod, an exodus, and an owl. So people saw that it was not fair to leave all the social arrangements just on certain articles, so they moved it into taking the specified proportion of all distributed sources, which is indistinguishably more reasonable and normal. In order not to impair local commodities, shell and shrimp improvements, line integration, or anything else, it would take about this capacity to perform the system in this new image, to have some X share of all the assigned fishing sources in a pot to survive these equations. That is how this happened about. Is it scientificly calculated? No. Is there more to it? Yeah, in my opinion, it has to be. In this case, I give specific ways to expand my foundation. I think that by diluting this into something, like 81⁄210 percent, the groundwork could be stopped largely by edification of marine settlements in Iceland, by attaching enough fishing warrants especially in the lower seas so that the ground could always be built there, inexplicable and never go, even though there would be trauma and some who were in business would be in trouble then able to build up and start on the ground where the place should be built. That's how the greeting system would have had to be from the beginning. If they had made a good choice in 1983 to tie some of the fishing warrants to the settlements, but not everything on the project, then Iceland would have a different outlook today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his speech on the Senate resolution proposal. aquaculture and agri-gri-gri-gri-gricultural Ministers where the treatment plan is proposed and the provision of the resources that are reduced from the total intensity, based on 5 mg/kg. Section 8. the management of fish management, but under the legislation 5.3% of the total resources required for special employment, social and geographic measures. I'd like to stay at my primary objective last year. It says that a minister should determine how these resources will be arranged with the aim of maximizing employment, social and based effects from the provision of the source. If we take a specific look at this, I'll ask. A senator then appreciated it according to the entire pool of 5.3% - w/k. In his talk, a senator made it clear that he could be 81⁄2-10% - that it is sufficient and close to meeting the requirements that can be read out of his main objective. In this context, we can ask ourselves, " Could the arrangement be otherwise? ' Then I ask - in the context of why. A senator, by means of purpose and purpose. A senator came in handy in his speech, i.e. to justify increased coastal fishing - whether he envisions a change of proportion in the arrangement, on the other hand, from the main objective of 5.3%, and what it might be, and then a change in the arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u154	Madam President. I'm not going to the secret place where I think it's very desirable that a larger part of this source, and preferably a larger pot, would go on the side of a staurora - then through the direction of a edifice as it is now or by other means that people would find to increase the structure of the system -- and then on coastal fishing, or some kind of fishing of smaller boats in the foundation, take special care. Of course, all such emphasis needs to be balanced. I'm not speaking for any revolution in this. I'm quite satisfied with the policy involved, especially with increasing the scope of a living agency. I would have been even more happy if I had seen the shore fishing, too, though it was certainly possible to say that if a handsome increase in the codfish, this part of the fishing will come to this good like the others, i.e. 5.3% of each species enter the pots. Of course, this is more possible if it is bound to one increase, and it is not necessarily in the future. I also believe that, in the long run, men should consider this 5.3% definition, and there is no physical laws behind it. I ask an alternative: If we could do that - by careful mapping and overcrowding with the most recent men, graffiti, and others - that, with less than 3% more, we would be getting into these measures, we could greatly increase the solidity of the sea settlements around the country. By attaching to all the smaller and more delicate sea areas of any firstborn so that humans would have something to build, even if they walked in a variety of large - scale and larger businesses at their places, would that not be a work - at - the - moment job? [[The president calls.]] Should we not consider, senators, perhaps in stages over a period of some years from 5.3% to 8%?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I thought that the whole policy point in this conclusion was very positive. We agree that increasing the scope of the living room in this context and that 5.3% is then an excellent goal. But, hey. A candidate gave an interesting point at the beginning of a talk pointing to a handwork between a piece of paper and the proposal itself. It has to do with the tests we're waiting for, and it says in a report, the further implementation of the measures on the quota. So I would like to pray. According to the report, a candidate should give the opinion of such a assessment and the decision taken here, and report to wait for this assessment and analysis of impact before any further decision is established in the long term, as is the beginning of the motion spoken of six years. What does it look like? A senator of that? Does it make sense to, according to the report, if we stick to it, to take it only one year at a time while waiting for that proposal? At the same time, I'd like to ask why. A senator, and those with him who had much congregational experience and experience as a minister of employment, about the opportunities of consultation that were created, can be read in the conclusion that, in fact, is not formal but, rather, to produce a viewpoint. This has been shown in the matter of why. Senators say it's very useful. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator is to give his opinion of whether this is a bad example and if it is not an desirable arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u156	Mr. President. For taking it down to one year now, I completely agree with that, I think it would have been incompetent to start attaching it to a longer time and really not a premise to it. Well, then I don't just remember that there's a further analysis of how these measures, each of them, work in addition to what has been introduced, like an analysis of the project Freights built. I also point out that while there is no overall review of the fish management law, it may be a bit unnatural to consider how this will be stuck for six years into the future. True, if I recall correctly, there has always been a roll-back of it every three years, and there may be perhaps mainly one factor in this which needs to be foreknowable in, that is the source of a building agency. It could be arranged this way: It's for the year, but it's such that a construction agency will have the minimum catch for the next three to five years, and she needs to know that it's based on cohesion that it can be established into contracts for three to five years, where men are supporting fishing in difficulties, etc. It may be necessary to consider, in any way, whether, by a declaration or by some means, that the committee would create a larger firmness and a better view of this factor. The Council - of course, it is always good to have people talk to each other as much as possible and prepare things in cooperation. The reality now is that in spite of intense conflict in these waters, in the case of fishing, there has been a much better outcome now when an agreement was made to negotiate the exports of these subsidies. As I read about it, these disputes have not been so hard. There have been conflicts with interest, and not all people have been happy, but basically, it has a system - the beach fishing, the settlement, the graffiti now - mature in relative peace here and should be able to move forward. Because everyone who knows recognizes the need. [[The president calls.]] Economics and reports are fine. But then you feel this too, just by observing the progress of individual marine areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u157	A respectable president. I'd like to say that at a meeting of the officers of the clans today, the members of the government came to a meeting empty - handed and did not provide a list of their priorities. When it is now time for Congress, and we wrestle that cases have come late, are maligned by committees, and some are presented, the government requires that it handle the country and show it by shouldering responsibility for the situation and putting their priorities aside or by making contracts for them. I find it very sad to see that the government does not seem to be able to handle it, and I think the nation and the council deserve better. I have to comment on the fact that as long as this is done in Congress, conferences continue and meetings are being held at the Senate Committee without anyone knowing what the policy is on the continuation of Congress. [[The president calls.]] I wish now that the president will interrupt this meeting and this discussion and that messages will be sent to the chairman of the Senate Committee to hold back the council service until then. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u158	Mr. President. I come up first and foremost to describe my concerns. I had hoped that a meeting of the presidents would tell me that we could get together on how to complete Congress. We all know how this situation has developed and here have been a large and controversial subject for discussion, a matter in which not only content is debated but also about shapes and practices. Sadly, though, I am not optimistic about this meeting, so I want to reiterate with a respectable president that his responsibility for how we continue here is rich. It's important. Though we may be very uncertain, it is important that we show respect for the Generals' work programme. When the Generals Work Programme is over, it is not possible to come here and expect every case from the government to be handled in a hurry. There's no disrespect for Congress in this country, and that's how we can't win, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u159	A respectable president. It is really surprising to me that all the heads of the classes do not realize that at this point when we are past the Work Programme and the committees are grounded because there is no time set for the committees, and they have simply not completed a review of very large issues and large cases have not even entered the council, have been offered, of course, the need to set priorities in such situations. We need a plan and some plan on what we're going to finish. We need to evaluate what matters are unrealistic when we consider the degree of disagreement and place them in a different direction. I would have thought this work was there. That is why I was disappointed earlier in the meeting of the presidents of the political parties. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that all the presidents of the political parties are fully open. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u160	President. I propose and recommend that the president take this list, the management list of the government, which contains, use probe, all the cases at the General Assembly, and simply analyzes what the president considers practical to complete by June 17th. The President has the program, and I suggest that the president uses his subject, to which he has the commission of our members, all of us, wherever we stand. It is not acceptable to offer us the opportunity not to announce a meeting until the end of the Council's Work Programme and then make a list of all matters. I'm sure the President knows how to run a business. If you ran a business like this, you'd be out of your mind long ago, or like your ex-whipped. paritaprevir Þór Saari said, "If the Allied were a hospital, all the patients were dead."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u161	Mr. President. It is clear from what the presidents of the government have described earlier that this meeting with the leaders of the clans has not been very successful. There are reports of committee meetings, there are committees in all kinds of committees, and a number of members are announced at two, three meetings. I don't understand how we're supposed to work on committees and pretend that nothing is when things have not been set up. I can't figure it out. We need to know which priorities are important, and then let us review them and see what they can do at summer conventions. The programme is naturally decommissioned. It's not in force. We need to get our priorities and know what to do on the committees, and we need to work to that end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u162	A respectable president. I kind of think it all just gets kind of normal if I'm supposed to say it right now. The fact that men at this time allow themselves to play some game by bringing in a list of all matters, even lists that are not yet to come, matters that have not even entered the council, which have not yet entered the 1st. and have the box in there also, just telling me they didn't take this meeting seriously. There was no intention of achieving any results or conclusions at this meeting. Of course, there is also a wave in our faces something that cannot be the basis for any reconciliation or agreement while men still have that frame plan on the list. A respectable president. I suggest that there be another contingency on this and the directors of the government parties will be made with a real priority list so that we can better figure out what we need to get together and prepare for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I suggest that there be a break in this council meeting. It's strange and it's no use talking about any issues here while it's unsolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u163	A respectable president. I think it's naive to continue to be surprised at government leaders, you're not supposed to expect any of them. You can hear it here after this meeting that they put in a list of all the matters that are in the council, even matters that have not yet been measured and are going to go on committees, saying: Yes, this is what we have to finish, preferably before the weekend, or something similar. This is impossible - what should I say - unprofessionally made by these politicians who pretend to control and want to control the country, who are easily entirely incapable of doing so. I suggest they lie under the fur for half an hour or so and bring the list they want us to discuss here in those days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u164	A respectable president. Of course, in this situation there is nothing more to do than postpone a meeting and call back to the table. What has been said today among the presidents was not in any way a negotiation to solve a difficult situation that has come up, but in fact, just a time march back to September of the month, to the beginning of this council of the council, because the Congress of the Government Council was presented only by the Senate committee laid at the beginning of the council. Now that we're past the Work Programme, it's over the last Friday, and there's nothing more to say than that there's some kind of disruption between perception and reality between government leaders in these matters. This is not what's going to happen here at the council, that people are about to finish all affairs of the government, and also those who have endured a great argument, that will not happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u165	A respectable president. I wonder if it's the highest. A president has known in advance that there was a time when he would have had a comedy meeting. I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew. Mr President that it was for the presidents of the government classes to bring a list of top priority cases, and for the list of 70 cases, all of the government cases? I must say, sir, to a respectable president, that I think the President also needs to look out for his respect and respect for the council. Is it reasonable to claim that this is an appropriate meeting material? No need for a respectable president to sit down with the representatives of the government groups and say: "It is the least thing that we have a meeting to discuss. It's completely below all the caves. But in this list, I became interested in the priorities of the government, according to the latest news: Camped wine. I suggest, most dignified president, if you're going to continue this joke, just put it on the schedule first, that's the most important thing you need to talk about, booze in camp, that's the priority of the governments and those who are in charge of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u166	There's been some misunderstanding about it as a matter of course. A senator mentioned here at the end. The entry to this list was to make a list of issues that were presented on the other hand and cases that had been handled by committees. It involved a matter of Congress, a case from which the matter was discussed. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur One of Aarnason's, huh? Árnason That's Ólafsdóttir, huh? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and perhaps more. The president was trying to keep his arms in check and to appreciate the situation here at the council. The president is sorry if it has caused this to be complicated, for that was not the intention of a president, it was simply intended that these issues be brought before him. The members of the council and the heads of the clans when all of these matters were discussed so that they could be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u167	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The president has to give a little more explanation. Is this the only thing that happened at the meeting was a list from the highest level? The President on Congress matters that were in the council and that everyone can access the Internet? Was that all that came out at the meeting? Was there a decision thereafter? It's working on me as if we're in a position where there's some kind of dictatorial government. We have three choices. First, to stand here and fight dictatorship and fight for the lesser part having something to say in this community - with 50% of its involvement it has to be effective. Second, the committee should be stopped and the majority allowed to simply separate themselves from this council. It would be a great waste, would it? Third, which I think is the best option, I challenge the highest. The president, stopping meetings and telling the directors of the board: There will be no meeting until a list is completed. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] That would be the best. President is taking over and improving the appearance of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] ...this evening just so that we can maintain a filibuster to defend the rights of the smaller democratic rights that are fought for the world over but that are to be eliminated in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u168	The president would like to justify what he said about his arrival in order to make the list that has been cited here. The president has merely compiled information on matters that had been handled by committees and are often referred to as senators' issues, and he felt that he had made an announcement earlier, as well as a matter that is supposed to be called. The president grieves again if his attempt to shed light on the situation by presenting this evidence in some way has led to a compromise. [[Up front.]] In other respects, the highest work was done. Government leaders present their priorities clearly, as we have been told here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u169	Which was the same list?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u170	Without going here for a discussion, the president thinks it's very simple. This is so that the government directors put in a list of priorities. The president then decided independent of him to submit the information he has already explained, but an attempt to make the president try to shed more light on this case seems to have caused confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u171	Mr. President. The peacemaker Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, or perhaps the peace wrecker, for he can hardly be spoken of as a man of peace, will do nothing more than the first day, a man will hear this discussion in order to improve the situation here. I agree with it. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson said that these meetings are to be stopped, put forth the list of items that you want to achieve, and then meet when it is available. They're not quite clear in politics, some of them and the government's leading schools were at least ... inthelastpricedtime. They know what these meetings are going to do in the way they were doing today. This is not the first time they are in a meeting like this, except when they proclaim to him themselves when Congress is supposed to be over. Really speaking, a respectable president, we intend to attend a committee meeting that will handle more cases in order to extend the list of issues even more than the word, it is a disgrace to expect members of the council to go on that course. The Senate is to be suspended.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u172	Mr. President. It has to be acknowledged that everyone had a bit of excitement for the chairman meeting earlier today. There was a Waffle around the house, and they were walking with waffles and cream and jam and fine jam and fines and finance minister and others, and everyone smiled at one another because they thought it was like in the Carphouse, something was lying in the air, and now something was happening, that this meeting was important. Then comes the second day. There's no secretive device today. The list that was laid out is just a list of the committees, and everyone knew about it, all underneath. I thought we were over a work schedule and we were setting priorities. Of course, it is in the hands of a more controlled section at a time when priorities are in place. It's going to be the highest. The president is about to start taking steps and let men work as they are supposed to in a more administrative section each time, whether at the highest. Ministers are called Sigmundur or Bjarni Ben.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u173	President wants to ask why. Councilmen mention other causes. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u174	A respectable president. It is quite simple that the president has made it clear that the last page of this priority file does not belong and that it was not a priority on the part of the government, concentration camps, and what it was about. Then you can throw that page away and watch the other pages. But as we have seen, it is quite unusual to describe, of course, the situation of the government that the Iceland government does not know in June how it will complete a council that was due to end last May. And I'm sad we don't see a priority list here. I'd like to ask for that to a respectable president because Iceland's National Sports Association has invited members of the Parliament to attend the Memorial of the 1930s, to make sure that we will be given the opportunity to perform the invitation and members of the council that it has known, and here will be temporarily suspended because of the international event. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u175	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what we've learned here that it's very uncomfortable to work now when things are going wrong. It's called the Off Right Left. For example, we on a financial committee work on public finances. What's that all about? Yes, achieving more disciplined and more careful practice by looking ahead, trying to plan, knows where we are going to get better results. At the same time as the highest. The minister of finance puts the matter forward and speaks for it, is it so important to increase discipline and responsibilities, what does he do, such as another ruler? Is it not also important that we at the council know where we're going and what we're doing and what we're meeting for and what case we're up to and what you're doing on Thursday at three o'clock and so on the streets? It's not okay. I pronounce my disappointments with especially the highest. A minister of finance who I thought had more bones in my nose and would be able to take matters into his own hands if it is the highest. Prime Minister, who is getting in the way. I want to wait to the highest. The president is taking matters into his own hands and preparing this multi-talked list that we would like to see. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u176	A respectable president. So I now add my weights to the scales to explain what arts were going on there, so on the other hand, it was a priority list, which included just all the cases of the government at the council and even cases that are yet to come, I thought it was about 70 cases. However, there is a list of matters, many of which have come from committees and are members of Parliaments, some of which are fine, but he did not have the priorities. Look. It's just the way it is. If we're going to be here without a plan, without a board of committees, many of the committees have very much to do with a very important subject, let's be completely honest about that we're not even going to last the summer to finish this, even if people use their rights moderately to talk about these matters. The summer on a legal holiday would not last. It's just the situation. It's just a Thai situation that needs to sit down and prioritize and consider which language is realistic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would like to agree with others who have directed them to take over in these matters, since a work plan is for his responsibility and respect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u177	V.E.G. President. I wondered before the chairman's meeting, " Would it really be so that I have to come up here in a talk room and describe my disappointment? ' But disappointment is not really a strong word for what is happening right now. I think it's totally prerogative that nothing really came out of this meeting and that no serious list of real priorities that the government puts emphasis on completing this council. I don't know if there's a need to repeat it once again that the work programme has come out of operation. Of course, this in itself cries for a new plan, and at this point a priority must be set. So I want to direct it and wait to the top. President that he would shut up a meeting and regroup the officers to sit down and plan again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u178	A respectable president. I have two comments. I wondered, " How would I think she would get these matters through the Congress about January or February? ' And how they thought of wasting two and a half weeks of the council's time to make a change. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son? I don't think it's a real priority list, Mr President. It tells a story. Then the other, like a dog. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson correctly pointed out, if we are to discuss this, that even though the senators may not have enough time to get over it, I think, this summer. That's a lot of cases such as degrees. What is this, Mr. Honorable President? What are we doing with this magazine? It's just some bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u179	A respectable president. It is not quite simple to realize when three magazines are held together in a corner, and on the front page, the list appears to hold only about two of the above pages, not the last ones. So I thank a respectable president for bringing us into all the truth about what that meant. Then I'd like to ask the highest. The president of the United States, whether he has realized that the presidents of the government groups were going to offer the government opposition to bring a list of all their cases, 70 cases, and think that such a meeting would be a solution to the situation. I challenge a respectable president to try himself in the power of his office to put his arms around this position, to put his arms around these matters, to put a report on the committees, to place a report on the activities of the council, and to place a scourging on the top of the government parties, and to show that it is not possible if a person makes a name of a priority, but that it is a list of things that are more important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u180	A respectable president. Is it not obvious that the next thing to take place in the council situation is that a meeting is scheduled and that the council members meet and review the situation? I think it's inevitable that humans are simply on the same page with regard to what has happened here, working on the same list, and realizing whether or not they're talking about using it somehow, because something else is inevitable. They were not really waiting for people on the side of the government to come and meet the government opposition to provide her with a list of the issues they have proposed or are planning to submit. It's already been introduced. We could have looked it up on the Internet. We have access to that. So I think the normal next step is that we interrupt this meeting and find it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u181	A respectable president. At times, we talk about the respect of the Generals, and we would like to increase it and improve the culture here and there. This is often said on days of stress, and this political issue obviously does not mean anything by what he says. For example, in the morning there is a meeting of committees that starts at 8:00 p.m. with visitors, visitors are being called to discuss the subject of the Fire class in the morning, and there is no question whether these matters will be handled at this assembly. I think it's depressing, and I don't think it's bad for people, so to speak. We're not supposed to drag people into this play right here. Therefore, I feel that before the committees begin, I feel that there is an early meeting in the morning with all committees except a board of directors and board members, all committees of the council, these paintings should be available, so we are not calling people to be unnecessary or to be involved in the political drama. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u182	Mr. President. I would like to encourage the Westernur Einar K. The son of God, the highest. President, take these matters into your own hands. We have come to the point where we must work together to determine the end of the council. There are cases in which the government is willing to pay a street for, but there are also cases known to be involved. These matters never go through here if there's not any agreement to retract a very controversial case that we know who they are. The management part has to start playing that game. We can't stay in this desperate situation forever, and I don't talk about when people don't bring anything new when they're being announced to a pre-established conference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u183	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The president for explaining this information with this request list, but at the same time he urged to publish the list, it's fine that the government will present the 70 matters that are most important to her and would like to be taken care of. I had promised myself that when I came on the front of this council, we would never go to the game of halting matters that had been agreed on by committees. It was the last season of the season. That's why we sat there with a number of EEA cases that had passed through envelopes, received a collective payment, but were not finally delivered because they told the government officials: you may receive seven cases. There were 70, 80 of them. We're not gonna do it like this. We are going to go through with the issue of agreement. But if there's any chance that between debates, whether it's political or law-employment proposals, there's always some change, someone's sneaking something in, throwing everything on the table and saying it's all going to be all going through, I don't see any purpose in being in control right here. There's gotta be something that's got to worry about the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u184	President. During the winter, the president himself said that he was concerned that matters would be late for the council, that would be bad, because it was important to live up to the council. Eventually, he was unable to fulfill his plans. I have previously expressed my sympathy for the council president to work with the government leaders, who are simply impossible to say. But I would like to suggest, as many of the councilmen before me, that the President's every meeting and coming out of the government leaders a list of things they would like to provide and priorities never, never to be longer than ten things, and preferably only five.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u185	V.E.G. President. You have experience as a member of Congress, and you have personally experienced that this is a popular practice that at the end of a council a number of cases cannot be made over. In fact, there is something that has even caused the matter to come up with a case, for it has been difficult to discuss matters more than once and even more than twice. V.E.G. President. It's June 1st. There are very few cases at the council that will not be tolerated and very few dates. There's a lot of talk about things that have been handled in harmony and harmony, and it should be a small matter to sit over them and put things off. That's what it's got to do with the best. The President of the CREEP Committee to help him. Why not postpone a meeting and hold as one meeting on the presiding committee and discuss the program that this committee is responsible for?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u186	President. It's kind of a ridiculous play that we're in, I don't think it's acceptable. There are still very serious strikes that have a profound and serious influence in the community. In the meantime, the heads of the classes are invited to a meeting, finally, after the work schedule has ended, and offered us nothing. Nothing, except a list of all issues. Like what? paritaprevir Róbert Marshall pointed to them, and we have members of Congress access to the Internet, and we know how to print a list of these ourselves. I suggest that the President only took the boys in charge of the country, and have not honored the council to suggest how we solve the crisis today. I suggest the President seizes the authority to which presidents should exercise authority in such a state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u187	V.E.G. President. I made it a subject this morning, under this team on President's conference board, that I would consider things being arranged in the wrong order. We began to vote for length of the meeting, and it was decided to have a meeting of directors later on on the program. I thought it would only start at the chairman's meeting. At the time of this decision, at the length of the council meeting, there was quite a tight sitting in the hall. Councilmen and Ministers of the EEA agreed that an untimely evening meeting was to be held. When I asked for the word now, there was one why. The senator of the great body here in the hall. Today, the number of these has increased, with three being the highest. President. I ask: Are we going into the evening, now at six o'clock, the government's going to talk to ourselves? [[The president calls.]] If it weren't closer, it'd be closer. President, breaking up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u188	A respectable president. I want to reiterate what I said before, that once the Senate business is so fucked up, we have to take it seriously and sit down and try to figure it out. A transport program was now introduced into the council, far too late. People are being invited to a meeting out of the country, and they respond to the council and say: "It's not an acceptable one, we can't be there on such short notice. People from the East and North, who have interests in this matter. And it takes a lot of effort, I think, to have people respond like this, because everyone in general is ready to come and pay for the council. But it just shows in what kind of confusion we're here. We cannot be preaching to people at a meeting on a day's notice, people on the other side of the country. A respectable president. There's a reason we have committee presidents, that is, for someone to direct the meetings, to hold the matter under control. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The president can take over to direct the council and he's a man of reconciliation, and I want to encourage him to act on this case because the government forces cannot be trusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u189	A respectable president. It's about the Council, like our country, Iceland, that there's no plan. We have the same premise to blame, the government president, who seems to be completely incapable of making and following plans. The strategy for this council ran out last week. No other plans have been made, and the government has no idea what matters it would like to be taken care of from this council. It may be fun to communicate with the administrative body until a summer, but it would be such an wishful, dignified president that they were present then and perhaps reason to have regular votes to make sure that they are at least here at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u190	Mr. President. The country's out of control, it's very early in the morning. We're here with a joke as Prime Minister who allows himself to rush out of the door and shows no agreement, has arranged for a meeting like this before. As I told you before, he doesn't sit for the first time, he knows what they're for when it's the end of the assembly. Then you don't show up with anything that's in your hands and that everything you want to get through happens. We won't have a reservation tomorrow. It's official now. As mentioned above, people are being invited to a meeting all over the country because of the controversial decision on the field. I wondered if a respectable president of the United States considers this method of action to be a credit to the council. Then I ask the highest. The president again whether he intends to take a stand-up during the re-entry ceremony of a national event tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u191	President wants to ask why. Senators guard their choice of words in the public speaking chair of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u192	I'll do my best with that, a respectable president. This doesn't necessarily have to be very complicated. The situation is that we have a few issues, a little bit of dates, and the council needs to be settled. You're gonna have to make a deal here to put in your fishing fees next year, or the state'll be off earnings. A marine rights minister needs permission to dispose of pots for fishing. The Minister of Transport is the key to the development of a national financial programme. Then there are other cases of hard work, of mutual opinion, that are simply about to save crops from house to house and from work that will otherwise be ruined. Third, the issue is so controversial, uncluttered, or complex, that it will not make a difference whether it will be handled at the beginning of the summer or at the end of the summer, in June or September. Fourth, there may be new issues coming in. Such an analysis of this condition needs to be performed, despite the inexperienced directors of the board of directors. I encourage the President to do this job. Then it's not very complicated, but that some freckles come in here many days after a work programme has expired and demanded everything, it just doesn't work that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u193	A respectable president. I wondered what I would do if I was in the position of a respectable president. Let us just forget for a moment how the Allied Council really works - this multitangled tension between the majority of the part and the smaller part, the powerlessness of the smaller part, and then, of course, the multiple - and let's pretend it's the art we're going to work with here. Does the president think it's possible to go through this list at the summer council? I'm sure that's 70 or more. How does the president believe that this will fit our status at any time during this summer council? That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u194	President. Yeah, it's kind of weird to have this case right here on the subject in the previous issue. June 1, compared with the completion of a council on May 29 It would certainly have been necessary to complete this case before the council went home, for this would have meant the distribution of 5.3% of a total catch in the year of fishing that begins on September 1. It is clear, therefore, that it is not later a kindness to take this matter up for discussion, but it may be typical of how badly the government has managed to organize its work and the matters presented to the Council and are now allowing it here all in the greatest trouble, noble President. So we're here discussing how to assign 5.3% of total resources, and I thought it was in the answers to earlier today and how to explain. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's answer to me - I wondered why 5.3% Why not something else? He knows those natural matters very far back in time, I think I'll be right when I notice him that this was actually a collection of measures that would have been taken in settlements. There are also no scientific calculations, and some of them are that this rate may be higher. But I feel really sad that there is no basis for this scientific decision other than a group of political decisions. That's a natural consequence of the way the fishing system is being run here. This has certainly led us to run a very practical fishing road, and it's good because seafood is a basic work here, and that's why I have to shoot in here that I always feel a bit rough when people say that the sea route isn't official, such as in the European Union, you say. Of course, these two are not compatible because we have a basic work assignment. Regardless of what we may think of the eating system, however, this has contributed to the driving of a highly efficient fishing route. So we're going to continue the 5.3% that we politicians are going to make now, I don't want to belittle, because we need to intervene in the quota system and we need to have some regional arrangements. I don't feel that enough research is involved, and then I think that you could use an auction more to exchange the various factors. In other words, we're going to decide here on the whole of 5.3%, we're going to switch to 37.55% to beach fishing, 5.18% to shrimp and shell repairs, and 24.65% to bases. How we are going to the Assembly Hall to make decisions about these percent is a clever one. Of course, it's based on some experience, but I don't think it's well enough. I'd like to mention the special mackerel. It shows that 80% of the macroils to be assigned based on applications will be distributed on a ship. 20% will be assigned according to local applications. This price should be paid, but it does not reveal what it should be high or how to decide. It's supposed to be by putting your finger in the air and checking where the wind blows. It's amazing. It's amazing. A seafarer should not suggest to use this to try the auction route, that instead of applying for the invitations. Then we'd see what we're willing to pay to catch the mackerel. It should be possible that, later on, the summer cover should also be paid, but it is mentioned here that there are 16 bars. which should be paid for the kilogram, but the amount for the mackerel is not given. I'd just like to mention what is called the art market or the special settlement of a graffiti where it is being built up, and I understand that this is perhaps the third time it's now laid down by this special dissertation organization. In other words, it differs from the general peyote system, but I understand that it must be distributed to fish stations. At least it's assigned to local or rural governments or towns and villages. It has been observed in the discussion that people say: " This is a good idea, because it will be said goodbye in the village or in the town, but it will not be able to take it away as has unfortunately been. A respectable president. As far as I know and as an experienced man and a wise man told me, it was that way at the beginning of the greeting system. For example, the clams were distributed to the fish farms. It was for a few years, and then it was decomposed as is often done when discussing our vast business path and this assignment to the ships. In other words, it was not new and had been used to using shellfish in the past. I just want to come in on the line coincidence. When she was put on at the outset, I have to say that I didn't think it was very smart if I could use that word, she went out that then you shouldn't use bait machines. They had to handle it. The requirement to receive a message in a cross-cutter was to return to a strategy that was not as practical as possible. In fact, it is now stated that there are ways to detect that the line will shift to some extent to the boats with bait machines without having a major negative impact on them based on the most important factors. [[The president calls.]] I don't know if this is going to be such a action as that, or if there's going to be some research behind how to turn this thing into.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u195	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now, how to get into this article, into the fishing system, for replacements, has often been discussed for those who do not have enough money or pay access to financial institutions and who are able to mortgage. I'm asking why. A senator believes that the coast fishing is a way of increasing and increasing. Then I look forward to the idea that the beach fishing is often not just what those with a boat do, but boating often have little purses and can row something over the winter but have this chance to row during the summer. I'm asking why. A senator believes that this is an opening in the article and that this article can grow if there is an increase in coastal fishing or if he sees another route. The discussion often tells us that everyone can start in the system today. But if you buy about 10 tons of cod so that you can row and a boat on top of it - for a kilo of about 2,500 bucks. there were 10 tons of permanent cod 25 million, and the price for a boat was also high. In that case, you may be 50 million to start 10 tons worth enough to earn a living all year long. I just want to hear a little attitude. A senator with these possibilities for recent action and whether to improve what is being done there for other measures than sharing out with those who have said goodbye today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u196	President. No, it's just the invention of the people who protect the saying system and want to keep it the way it is and the way it is, that everyone can get in. Not everyone can get in if you have to buy a bid for 25 million, buy from others. In my opinion, it's just a sentence when they say, "Yes, it's an open door for everyone, everybody can buy their way in." That's why it's the beach fishing system, I like it. The danger, however, is that of investing too much, that can be the risk of the coastal fishing. It also states that they have been calculated as not to be profitable. And what does that mean? Yes, they pay no interest. But do they reach the end of their investment? They may say: " Well, my investment will be useful elsewhere, and so on. ' I think we need to be very alert not to push too hard a business in this country. At any rate, we need to understand why we do so. Yes, we are, as the committee shows, because the side effect is good. [[The president calls.]] But we need to be very alert to promote the spirit of mismanagement in business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u197	Mr. President. The very idea of coastal fishing being inexorable is often promoted, and there is no basis for it. I've heard a lot of things about that subject, even though there are no theoretical calculations behind it. Among these is the fact that one person who has a beach fishing boat for four months may hunt on 15 tons of it with fine revenues to pay off his investment. On the other hand, to earn the same amount in four months, an individual must have 200 tons behind him. I'm not selling it any more than I bought, but I think it's very interesting if you compare it like this. In smaller settlements, where there is no chance of making a tugger as it used to be, these are often the only opportunities of individuals to do business on their own and to create jobs. We know that there is a very low cost of operating such small amounts that are not relevant for large tugs; that is a massive waste of currency because large amounts of oil go to tugs in each period. After all, and all of this combined, the question of how much it costs to create one job against one kind of job that is created in this way. It also changes whether we apply the highest financial demands for self - interest rather than assume that it is possible to earn a decent amount of money from these revenues, as is the case in ordinary human activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u198	President. I have no problem with private business or the way people manage. A senator is describing, by making a boat on a beach fishing and thus surviving. I'm saying, in our professional life, we're supposed to have as many flowers as possible that bloom. That's why I like the thought, as it seems, behind the beach fishing. I like it. However, we need to be careful that it will simply have to be that those who do the beach fishing will agree that they do not have more out of it than they do, and perhaps that is enough. Then it's quite good and good. We have to be careful that when we have this kind of business, we should allow it to flourish in its own way, but also make sure that we do not work too hard on the other species. We may want to do so, but we need to know that we are. I think that all, including those who make out on the beach fishing, should know what they have to pay for the fish out of the sea, and it's better than that we're setting up a fishing fee here at the General Assembly, and that's why I think it should offer the catch on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u199	A respectable president. Again, we are here to consider actions to skin the marine system in some way; still we are discussing a matter related to this legal class, where somewhere in the suggestion is: It did not work. It's actually becoming the motto of the present government in many respects, if it isn't ◯ it didn't work, then it would have been a way of doing it, or did it not? It says here in the motion, by permission of a respectable president: ▪Vonir provided an analysis of the measures currently used in the five.3% of the total resources intended for employment, social, and geographic measures. It didn't work. However, the situation here is a matter that must be prepared for the next fishing year and one thing I want to say here, which is comparable to what was presented. paritaprevir By this time, Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir daughter has been given the ideal opportunity to provide catchets for macroil, try this method, because it is assumed that the market will be sold at a certain weight price for boats under 30 grosstons and that 80% of that amount will be determined on the basis of applications. But it would really be a good option to try an auction on these sources. I want at the short time that I have in place to account for my policy in these materials. It is our belief that market solutions in the fishing industry should aim to maximise the cost of fishing for the benefit of its owner, i.e. the entire public in Iceland. Thus, a bright future wants to use commercial solutions in the fishing industry whenever it serves the interests of the public. According to our estimate, for a few years an auction of fish industry is a very good way to do this instead of assigning it to a closed group of published years from year to year, trying to set up a price that will always be debated and never in line with the actual value of the right to catch the fish and produce the article. Such a price will always be over or under, so it does not give reasonable conclusions and skimbles ground. An auction best measures what is made of trust to pay for the navigating rights and thus gets the owner of the fisher of the resource, i.e. The people of the country, what they have for their resources. Thus, a bright future suggests that when food and fishing systems are used to deal with social issues, such as difficulties in individual or land areas that have been and are highly dependent on sea routes, there must be a great deal of guarantee that social goals are achieved and that they are so important that it is justified that the highest demand for profit from the nation's resources is met. In other words, it must be a normal ratio between social benefits and what it may cost less profit from using the resources of the resource that the nation has and has the right to receive. Based on this light, the fishing industry must be carefully examined and evaluated. We must learn from experience and what has failed and what has done well. Neither one, i.e. edative and coastal fishing can be successful if significant markets or other important social goals are achieved by those that cannot be achieved by other means. However, it must be ensured that real long - term solutions with clear and realistic goals are involved rather than quickness or failure. It doesn't help anybody, but it just goes off in the hanging chairs, costs a lot, and doesn't pay much. It is very important to look for ways to support the fractured population so that those who want to live there can have lucrative jobs and enjoy acceptable biographies. It must be the primary objective of a longer term sustainable construction site. However, I find it rather easy to talk about the rightness of the settlements, but I strongly agree that people in certain settlements have the right to take into account in this relationship. A question, though, is whether it is better, at least in the long run, to do so by maximising the profit of the resources shared by all the people in the sea, and then to provide a special part of it for the development of various services and employment opportunities in the fishing industry or other areas that may be suitable in the country. This method is more efficient than having a host with related problems and thus less potential interest in the resource as well as disintegration in the costs of community support, as well as thus reducing the possibility that less industry than sea transport will take root in the settlements. In my mind, it is a great deal of justice that people who live in settlements that have been highly dependent on marine soil but are now under attack by induction and fishing get a good deal of the money they earn to strengthen their communities, their jobs, and their basic services. I certainly don't want to say that in some case, edifications can't be a good way or at least the best thing to do. However, with my experience, I have serious doubts about the general use of resources to strengthen the structure of the building blocks so that they will be a longer time source. There is also the need to be careful that technological advances have already led to the need for a much greater number of people to hunt and manage marine resources. This development is going on and will continue, and we cannot and should prevent it, since this technological development can greatly increase the cost of using the resource. It is by no means certain, and it is quite unlikely that the building blocks of fishing will produce a large number of future fishing and processing jobs. So I think that we should think very carefully about the lack of long - term success in searching for ways, including: with fish industry auctions whenever possible, to maximise the profits the nation can earn from their fish resources and also ensure that most of it goes to the owner, i.e. ... intheland. In this way, we can get the funds for social projects rather than up-to-date the halo with its resulting consequences and thus reduce the potential interest in the resource as well as disintegration in the costs of such community support. One of the most important social projects is that of breaking - down people. This support must include making it possible for residents to shoot as much as possible and with the most diverse support under their employment and economy as well as to improve important community services. Seafood can, of course, be one of the occupations, but it must not be allowed alone to control his thinking and activities too much. You see, life is much more than just salt fish. Of course, if the people in your community are given the opportunity and financial support and space to build their own settlements for the future on which most businesses are most effective, it is best that they are the most responsible and highly responsible for making their jobs sustainable in the long term. This is our basic thought in the bright future. It is thought of as a means of building on this common resource for as long as possible, disappearing from this course of instant solutions, which are then extended from year to year. There is in the context of the shell improvements in this proposal. They were put on to deal with sudden contractions of shellfish hunting years ago, certainly more than ten years ago, if I remember correctly, I can't remember exactly how long it's been since they were put on. They would think that the area had recovered from that failure, which is longer years from year to year. During the last term of the coastal fishing season, they have proved to be in many respects that because of them in many communities that have just been hit, there have been many secondary jobs. These may not be full - time jobs, but this is at least part - time work that has value and diversity in the community. Of course, people at this point and always need to be ready to examine this and wonder whether it is a good system in the long run and whether it serves these settlements in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u200	Mr. President. There's been a lot in the discussion to offer remunerations, thus maximising the profits of fishing soils in Iceland, and then to share them in some form and to meet the settlements that pay for a huge combined supply of resources. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the subject. We now know that because of the practical and beneficial availability of fish plants, the country is wide and wide. Although time has changed and technology has taken up space in fishing areas as well as in other fields, the conclusion remains that these settlements exist. I'd like to hear some attitude. A candidate for this and whether he does not consider it to be beneficial when smaller coastal areas can be self-sustained and do not have to rely on the distribution of funds in any structure in any form each year but have the basis to build on the basis of confidence in having access to the fishing grounds up to some minimum, as the thought is possible. by further strengthening the structure of resources and by looking at opportunities for increased structure. Is it not more upbuilding than it is for people to be accepters in areas where they enjoy being near resources, in these cases of marine resources? Others have hot water and can have greenhouses and various occupations have developed around other resources that benefit humans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u201	A respectable president. I know why. A senator knows this as well as I do what it's like to work at fish and how much such work has been changed in just two or three decades. What you saw before when you arrived as a youth into a Western fishing station does not sound like sight. There is much more technology, much less jobs, and in itself much more valuable. What we're simply saying is that when a settlement is being assigned to smaller settlements, the whole area of the world was used for a very small greeting. Of course, he benefited from those who work in the fishing industry, those who go to the sea, and those who have developed. It might be possible to build up for these settlements in another way. Perhaps they wanted to make a decision to have their job structure differently. There is much that you can do about it. You see many positive things coming from a person's simply having high - speed network connections and being able to increase the support he or she has. I give examples such as the people's University of LungA, in Sufficiency, and the settlements such as the Aegra and Stockholm, where there is a flourishing culture. There are other things that can happen in these settlements if the settlements themselves are simply strengthened, become sharers of their property in this resource to do what they want. It's the ideologies we have in the Bright Future, and we think it's more reliable in the long run and more sustainable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u202	Mr. President. I know sea settlements well in the West, where I've lived for 57 years. I know that the thinking of the people living in the sea is that they want to be self-sustained and be able to survive on their own terms. The changes in technology progress and increasing education are also being made in these areas, and there is a growing growth in employment opportunities. The development of technology is good. I think it's dangerous to work all too well together and to go along looking to the point where the settlements have no chance of working out or working, although they can, because these fleas are being made so dull and unmoved that people don't want to live in these places. Even if there are about eight large trucks in Iceland that pick up all the resources, this catcher may be driving back in a way that's more inconspicuous than if it could be won in the near environment of the fish's hunting grounds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u203	A respectable president. I talked to some men on the coast fishing out west of here today. They were coming for them just in a flash of fire for 15 meters per second. It's not a fancy raw material that comes ashore in that situation, and in addition, it's getting this catch at a bit of a bad game. You have to think about this. Now I make it clear that I was a great supporter of the beaches and I am still. I feel that taking specific measures from a local viewpoint is justified. We need to find the line between us as the owners of this resource trying to get as much for it as possible and a new one so that most of the money comes from taking part in the profits this will consider. That is why we want our profits to be as high as possible. [[The president calls.]] As we take on social or cultural measures, such as the beach fishing, we need to be justified from all these differing interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u204	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech and a review. It is easy to hear that the short future of the British Union's policy is consistent, although the emphasis on exports is somewhat different. I'm going to say that I'm very into the markets in the seaside, but I think it's shocking to come into sea regions that have been built up around the seaside and there's no fishing from there. It's part of the town scene, it's part of the people's self-identification. It is important when we have chosen to enter a system in which we are in, which is about many good systems, although the prices of resources are a problem and there are disorders of the system, that when we go into such a great economy in this article, we must also remember that the market is a servant and not a master. I'd like to ask you why. A senator in charge of this, I suppose now he'd have as much as I understand in his case as he would like to have it in another way. But I'm talking about the 11th dot at the Parliament's CREEP Directive, where income is said to be derived from the provision of resources on the basis of the Council Recontraction will be based on structurally related tasks under the regulations set by the Minister. I find this unpleasant provision, for I find it unnatural when we do not know how much money is involved. I agree that the settlements will be able to enjoy this in a system where we still have the commercial income. But I would like to ask the senator, provided that the motion will be agreed this way, if he would not agree with me, that this should go to church plans rather than be determined at the minister's desk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u205	A respectable president. Yeah, I can't help but agree. Of course, a senator says that it is highly unnatural and unfortunate that these funds will be held in accordance with a Minister's Regulation. Of course, it has to be something to be discussed at the council and to be discussed here before the decision is made, at least the decision is blessed here at the council. I just want to reiterate the point that was the main subject of my speech in these topics. There is, of course, something that we need to consider in this context, whether there is no reason for that, such as. As we look at the coasts, we focus more on the settlements in which there is no other type of fishing, i.e. where the major projects have disappeared, and where they have disappeared in recent years and decades. Of course, it is true. One senator says, it is heartbreaking to witness in these settlements how this has disappeared, and instead, museums showing professional history have been replaced by a breakdown in the history of these settlements. I think that many of these communities have great potential if you look forward to trying to develop a wide range of employment opportunities. Of course, there are factors that are of vital importance, such as. Access to high-speed networks, good transport, etc. and we're supposed to take advantage of the money we're supposed to receive from this resource of ours on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u206	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator, and we agree that it is important to contribute to the development that appeals to modern people and is likely to increase the will of the people to live in or move there. I'd like to take an example of Isafjordir, who doesn't have a look at vision in this regard. The system has taken its toll from that community. There is certainly a small boat carved but very small. However, there are several companies that attract staff and are highly valuable and based on marine products. For example, one of them makes a piece of fish dust. It is also important to watch for areas, areas, and towns to develop, and I think it's important for self - image and culture, and then there are other factors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u207	A respectable president. It is true, of course, that many of these settlements are very different. But I also remind myself of the fact that this country came into the country of 303 billion last year because of the arrival of foreign tourists. It's not to be silent, it's to be a very loud and striking revolution and a change in the ways of the people, i.e. that our main sector has been very modified. Of course, this gives us an opportunity. It gives us room to think. Perhaps more money has been made in building a new elementary school or a new elementary school, or improving living conditions in one way or another in the communities, than directly receiving a greeting that exploits very limited aspects of the community, though, of course, that element is positive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u208	Mr. President. The political party I am part of, the Conspiracy, has developed a policy in the fishing grounds based on market solutions, just as the political party does the future, so me and him. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall is very similar in this regard. Even if you can envision a system of auctions, as if I would like to be done in order to distribute metallusts, it is still possible to visualize, as in the present system, a disaster similar to what we have seen happening. The dark side of the system is such that because of markets it is possible to provide for situations where, at one time, it may be purchased away or transported away from the local market, which has sometimes built on a fishing road. And even if a person takes the lead in building other types of employment and employment in order to create local employment, it takes time. Experience shows that it has been very difficult, but it may be possible, but it takes time. Then the question is, How should we react when such circumstances arise? I have concluded that having a form is absolutely justified, we can call it brogues, where it can be taken to bridge the gap between the critical days and the future. My question to why. A senator, because I was not completely aware of his excellent speech earlier, is he justified in building such into the system or if he is against it? And if he has the best shape, e.g. The shapes that humans have adopted in the past two years and that include providing a building agency with permission to distribute special quotas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u209	A respectable president. I believe that there is a need for funding and that the nation can be funded by their resources in order to cope with any disaster that may arise. What's going on here, without me making this case small and the solution that's being proposed and realizing that it's necessary to take care of it here, is one of the many hurry-ups on a system that we should in a long time ago be put down between political parties, national, national, and capital areas, so it was a good deal of reconciliation for this foundationwork road. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to do that. We've been arguing about this group for decades. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was in a government that took over 2007, completely unsuspecting about the horrors that awaited a few months later. But then, there was also a great robbery and recession in cod, if I recall correctly, and the government at that time. A senator was involved in a number of measures. Not all of them were in charge of making reservations but in building wood, setting up funds for transportation, and so on. That's how I think the state, society should be prepared to respond when this happens, because improved transportation, improves living conditions in every way increases the possibility of a wide range of employment, increases the possibility of not having all the eggs in the same basket, so people are better equipped to react to tragedy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u210	Mr. President. I live in real life, and to take an example from him, to illustrate what I'm thinking, to name Flatty. There, almost overnight, he rose up and walked away; he disappeared in one night. The following were the job tools, i.e. The houses and machines, and so on, and a lot of people without a job. We're talking about the system as it is today, this bill we're discussing about the system as it is today, and I'm wondering: A senator's not that under such circumstances, action, such as deportation, is somehow justified? We are not going to build any new infrastructure or new sector one, two and three, in some way we need to bridge the gap. I believe that the method that has been justified by humans in the past two years is by recording this special saying through a living institution that has proved to be much better than the general greeting. [[The president calls.]] I don't see any better way to save something that may be an emergency. Hv. A senator can call it one of many reveries, but this is the only tape that saves this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u211	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator does not disagree with the need for the State to respond in such cases as Flatur. The thing is, people do this every year. This has been done very far back in time by means of all kinds of false arts. It is, of course, true, and it came to me in my speech, that such measures need to be justified in considering our primary objective of contact with the resource. There must be good based and social evidence for such measures, and there must be a need to create or aim for systems with sustainable development where they are soaring. That's how things need to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u212	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss the interpretation proposal for the treatment plan and the provision of the total resources. The proposal came into the council yesterday and required first a vote on a variation because the case should have been made by April 1, the past; that is, more than two months late; then, a variation needed to be taken on schedule today. It's such a typical case that, unfortunately, for some reason, has been delayed at work. Ministry and requests at the highest. The General President of the Council for previous cases has failed badly in this regard. This is not a very complicated matter, considering the fishing policy of the past few years. This is part of what is drawn from a total of resources, which is a provision for the distribution of Member States on ships, and then for a part to be taken and placed in a common pot, as it has sometimes been called, and assigned to specific tasks. There was a change in this distribution during the past year's discussion of this if I recall correctly, rather than before, that the policy in these matters would be established in a synonym and would be submitted to the council. That is why it is important to have such a suggestion and to have an opportunity to discuss it, to get reviews and counsels from people all around the country, and to give suggestions on how to do this. Now I understand that this is done in a bit of a hurry, and it even needs to come up with a new concierge as early as autumn, which is, of course, a great flaw. Long - term thinking is of utmost importance, and we need to take up such a work routine as we do in many places, even though it is going in the opposite direction right now. But just as late as this is so late, it has often been said that uncertainty about fishing is unpleasant and affects investments, has decreased interest in them, and is then not acceptable? But I'm not gonna waste any more time on it. This is a case that we supported being taken by variations simply because it has to be handled. The year of the Lord's Evening Meal begins on September 1, and this has to be completed before the wedding year begins, and it is important to have a discussion on the subject. I hope so. A professional health committee is given an opportunity to discuss it well inside a committee. So here are some cohesive measures, as I call in this pot system and social solutions, and is of 5.3% of total resources. This figure, 5.3%, is very controversial, and it is also helpful to consider it in relation to that if there is still an increase in the greeting, including In cod, and even if the exaggeration begins to come strong again. The question is, Should this percentage be maintained and how it will affect the figures presented here when these increases occur in the future? There's been quite a debate in this room, e.g. of the last speaker and of others, how to deal with trouble in the salutations of individual settlements. This new solution, which is replaced by a general eutrophication of these proposals, has been transferred into a shared pot provided by a localisation agency, i.e. A special rural area to strengthen fragility. It is used for 1,200 tons for human provision; it is derived from the generalised range; it is part of the range of shrimp and shell repairs and is reduced. In the discussion of how to deal with individual problems, people have found no adequate solution and have been in trouble with the premarital rights of the saying, they must not be on their own, they must be on ships; but if the party on the ship is separated, the country has no defence as it seems to be in the Western Islands. We have also suggested at the council that these settlements get a considerable part of it or up to 25% of the fishing fee to build up and create more varied jobs. But I don't think that no matter what the ideas we have in this regard, it's extremely important to support the fishing grounds in those places anyway. Thus, the beach service, which makes the same amount in this proposal, has played a vital role in creating a life of rejection across the country. There is a particular group that has been raised to catch fish and has had the opportunity over the years, and it is very important for this group to have the opportunity to go fishing and return fish to land. Coastal fishing has also become important in individual locations, e.g. such places as Patrekfjordur, who could have kept the freezer open during the summertime because of the beach weather. I would've liked for the beach fishing to be more than that. Also, for a discussion that it can be difficult to get the fish during the days that are opened to the coast, these are Olympic fishing at the beginning of the month, I would have wanted to adjust the arrangement so that it would be for a month when men could determine when they would go out to get the catch. That's what's been moved by prime radios, including of ex-whipped. paritaprevir Inline the Þorvarðardóttir daughter and others. I think it's very important to keep looking at it. The form of a special settlement or settlement to break - down settlements has also involved the three - year distribution. As a result, plans can be made and taken into consideration for a longer time than just until the year. So I support the main part of the changes that are being made here, although specific factors need to be considered and taken into consideration. However, I would have liked to see an increase in this share with increasing resources, with improved marine life and increasing fish stocks. These articles discuss the mackerel and mackerel for small boats. It is most intriguing to examine this synonym in the context of the bill that came through macroil because it simply conflicts. This is a vastly different assignment from what is expected in the bill. That's about 15 of you. a ton that's a good increase in the little boats. It's to be paid, but there's no such thing as how it's supposed to be, some speculation that it takes into account the herb, or that it's to be tied to the hunting idea, 10 cents, or what else? It would have been so natural that men had mixed up operations on the boats and then the 20% addition that goes to the Ministry and is to sell, and made it go to the party council, even if they should place it to some extent. At least then would be an opportunity to see the price. This is where arrangements are made for small boats via applications to the Ministry. The sources that will be destroyed at the end will be marketed or offered for purchase, but there are no rules, no rules on how to handle it. I would have liked to see that men experimented with the Council of theaks, which has been a great deal of agreement with the idea that there is a public market that accepts resources that are not new and brings them back to those who want to catch them at the price they're willing to pay for. But it is important that the market is public, not sold by the little boats. Here, for example, it is assumed that if a fish is not fished, it will not move, nor may it be handed over to other boats. It was in the other suggestions. So in this respect this proposal is much better and hopefully a check that the idea has been choked, it is still still born, i.e. The proposal for a six-year distribution and all the ridiculous ideas that came with it. Overall, I would like to say that the United States has repeatedly provided proposals for marine espionage, and market solutions have been proposed to lay the foundation. It has often been said that a so - called church committee has given some ideas about contracts, but I remind of proposals made by the United States, a paper won, even. Of the members of the United States at that time, but primarily the Þorkell of Helgason and Jón Steinsson about how the marketing environment could be created. Happily, more and more people are seeing the wisdom of considering it. Of course, some rules have to be set around that system, but that's the only way to figure out how to figure out how to pay for access to the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u213	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the talk and would like to ask him what we left the green have considered. He only came across the treatment rules and differences between the so-called macrollar bill and the treatment proposed by this bill. We're talking about the smaller settlements. I'm the help of the Based Agency and I'd like to reflect on it with the senator. This bill, which is referred to as a focus, shows that there is a much greater positive attitude toward the settlementtans that are going through a graffiti and its distribution than to the traditional general population of settlements we know so well. Hv. A senator spoke of the auction route spoken of by the United States of America. We've only looked to other ways. Then I'd like to ask the senator if he could see that the income of these resources, such as from a mackerel or what it was, is listed in No. 8 On the front cover of the Senate resolution proposal, it would be used on a community-based project to enhance the diversity of the settlements in the small settlements that are primarily based on deforestation. Would it be possible to visualize in some way whether it was through a parish program or in some other way that the funds could be used to build up? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u214	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. In terms of fracture risks based and Based on the way they are assigned, I believe that the primary difference was that the premise of having assigned food is that there has been a previous process, i.e. there's a place that's lost resources and that's why they're in trouble, that's expected to be handled by locals and all other agents involved in the case of which solutions might be considered. First, when that method was used, people had this frank discussion: Do you want to be, want to go? Of course, it is important that this type of community is not in the position that everyone is trying not to be the last one out of the community, and they are stuck with possessions that are worthless, etc. This has led to the introduction of the Building Office. The people have chosen which ways they have gone. It is determined to make practical use of the domestic catch so that it can benefit from the home. Hence, much more positive viewpoints have been involved. I strongly suggest that this route is being used in increasing numbers instead of being placed in the larger rural areas that have less to do with it. When it comes to saying that we and a left green article on the matter of a farewell party, it is quite different from an auction market. We've talked about an offer that means that people can stay in the market for a considerable time, observe the prices, and evaluate what they trust in to obtain resources, and there are all kinds of rules around it. The important thing is that it's a state-of-the-art campaign and it's controlled there, it's not stakeholders that benefit from selling, etc. With regard to income - based relationships, I agree that it was desirable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u215	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The growth of edifices includes what we left greens have suggested. Here is a suggestion made by three members of the left movement ◯ green supply has proposed to provide for the development of fragmented settlements, which, on the basis of the building of the resources. I think there's one of those things that's missing. I come from a rural society where the general community has gone to the larger parties, and they don't benefit themselves, and I've often been horrified and cared for and had to make changes. I want my second answer to talk only about the beach fishing. There's a little debate about whether this is enough for the beach fishing to continue blossom, so it can be the beginning of new ones who want to calm down, that they can, in fact, build on it, that's part of their foundation. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator like me has seen what it's like with a nice little boat that's been having goodbyes through the beach fishing, but this has just increased the possibility of a new recruit. Besides, it's work, people can do it all year round. Also, it's tourism, and I can see it in my hometown, but it's often called life in the harbors, and this is important for tourism, especially for foreigners. So I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council whether he counts the share he has set aside to maintain the beach fishing and build for recent development, as is suggested here, and if not what he thinks we might need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u216	V.E.G. President. One way to ensure survival can be the very best. I'd like to think, though, that I'm one of those people who've been talking about us running this tremendous cost and powerful seabed and not losing it, we don't have to start doing this as a bourgeoisistic thing, sending it here and there, this must be a market law. We're fighting an international market, and much of this has become like a cool production, even the shore fishing fish is making a deal about where it goes to market within two, three days. The exact choice has been made; this fish goes to this store and it goes this way through the system, etc. We can't lose it at all, there can be no romance in it. But I'm totally convinced that the beach weather has been a happy addition, and there's more to it than that. At the same time, we need to be very clear that this is a system that thrives next to the eater system and must never go to the quatan, because if it happens once again, we are in the same nonsense as we have at least two times gone through here. I think it really matters that this is what it is. This makes it possible for you to live with your existing little quota, also possible just by summer work, to save people through a certain period of time during the year. Above all, this is what leads to the laws of the land. So I think it's too small, but I don't see at all that it's supposed to get bigger and it's not to be put in a quota at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u217	V.E.G. President. I'm next on the rosary, and I have to say a surprising reminder that this is not a marine dignitary and agricultural minister. Now it looks like the highest. Social and housing minister is his substitute. I hope she comes along to reason this matter with me in the spirit of radical reason. I'm surprised to say that this is where we have participated in the majority of the business. A sea emissary with uniqueness to pay for its arrival. I don't know any better than he's voted by having a long meeting here today just to leave the country alone. It must be because he's here with his replacement. Is that really true, chief? President, to the highest. A secular minister does not consider this to be so important that he cannot remain in the country while he is in the middle of the year 1st. and that he's well-deserved us to be here tonight while he's gone?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u218	President. First, I'd like to say that the president has not answered my simple question. She could answer with a single word, yes, or a more complicated explanation if the answer was no. Now, here we go. This case is presented here, the case called the little pot. Here we are on the basis of a law on fishing management on the Parliament's resolution of a treatment plan and the provision of the resources derived from a total of 5 mg. Section 8. legal about the control of fishing. It was a good thing to have a professional employment committee established that a minister would have to make a synopsis of the exchange of these forces. A group was formed who worked well to divide this into different species. Here's 5.3% of the total resources set out on the basis of all of the articles on fish control. They are divided into coastal fishing, shrimp and shelling, support of communities, the building center for line fishing and leisure fishing. Then there's food supplies in macroils and market warrants in herrings and so on. I'm coming up here, chief. Mr. President, there are several points I have to comment on. As the general public knows, the United States is in favor of a marketing system on decoupling resources, but we also believe that there is a need to ensure that, on some scale, there is still some effort in the seas in the settlements that have lost resources through the peristaltic system, as well as if it would be possible, based on the principles of violations based on meeting them. What interests me most is macrolic sources that are to be sold at a price of some kilos to boats under the size of 30 grosston to hunt in the base. This is to be sold and not allowed to move between boats. It is then considered how 80% of this is to go on the basis of applications, 20% to follow local management applications and sources that have not entered the specified boats in accordance with this system will be offered for purchase in a comparable process. This is really weird. We're talking about a considerable amount of mackerel, but we don't know what price you're talking about. The market's not supposed to make that price, chief. Mr. President, and not the council, although I have doubts about the coming of the Senate -- no, a minister should just decide. The proposal does not reveal the amount of money we are giving up for a minister's interest in us. However, in Article 9 it refers to a vacation of summer and its distribution. It states that boats should be sold under 30 grossst weed for basic fishing, and that prices should be at 16 p.m. the kilogram. Now I have to say, the law on fishing is not particularly simple if you're not so much better off in them. There's a lot to discuss in what way Ministers issue regulations and exchanges and dierents. It's kind of the Minister's desk and the drawers in what are at the core of the system we're talking about in this council plan. In this context, the representatives of the Advisor Committee at the 8th have been identified in the government's declarations for collective agreements called a work programme. It says that legislation should be revised, which affects employment life, reduces the burden of rules, and simply treaties with public authorities. I think fishing legislation is just a great starting point in that subject. It is quite simple, and it increases the share of the public's share in the money of the resource by offering up the source. Now let me not say that in all cases this applies. Specific measures are being taken here. But it is fine to take into account the market price that should be found at the market with the natural auction of sources. You see, that's the way it is. Mr. President, we trust those who are on the way to exchange species that still need to be equal in their cod value. We trust them to do business with them. The market seems to be able to handle that. Its design knows exactly what it is missing from its kind in order to achieve the best and most efficient operation, I presume. I would think that the project would be better off to determine the price of her trust to pay for the labor than a Minister by the issue of Regulation. For this Regulation, I have a considerable concern that it appears to be based on a universal proposal in Article 8. Its next paragraph, by permission of the president, says: ▪ A secretary is permitted to comment on the implementation of the Council of Regulation (s). We know that a minister should do this in terms of structural projects, but we really don't know much more. I'd like to see if there's anything I can do for a job committee -- I don't sit there so that I'm going to direct this to the members of the committee, there's only one in this room, so I'm counting on a dog. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir - we get information about the amount of money involved. What is the value of the resources that are being discussed here on the issue of distribution? What is the value of the resources that the Minister intends to recommence in a Regulation based on local policy? I'm not sure we're allowed to cancel our funds in this way. I suggest that there be a change in the situation so that while we're living in the system as it is, the funds the Minister wants to decide by his own regulations are set up in national parish programmes. Then it would be the settlements itself, on the basis of based policy-making as an agreement in the national part of the country, that determined in the way that these funds were employed. The other is only reason to believe that there could be a basis for corruption because it is so hairy and hidden, as well as the scope of this Regulation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u219	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. She spoke, like others in the United States and the Bright Future, for so - called market routes, but still says that she feels that she is to be taken into account based view. This is now part of a distributed market, 5.3%, maybe not enough, and a number of others would need it for what it is today. The rest of the system is really an uninterrupted market system. A senator came in. Sources of goods go through trades and markets, and they can be taken overnight out of communities, and nothing is left to be left but the residents and investments they have invested, and humans are vulnerable. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator's view of the consequences and the black sides of unorthodox marketism in this as so many other areas in which we feel that there will be a variety of viewpoints other than just getting practical out of this article. Prosperity for who? questions are asked. For the shareholders of large companies? The storm may then flow in their pockets, instead of spreading across the country and to the inhabitants of the marine settlements that have built up their homes and businesses and others around the seaside, but they have no authority over how the funds are used in the trades and markets. I know there may be a big question. What does that count? A senator that can be done to ensure some balance in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u220	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The respondent and the reminder that 94.7% of resources in Iceland are in an unorthodox marketing system, in a system closed on the inside market. Those who have been given resources can shop with them; not at all, but can gain considerable gain from it, a profit that should become significant in the state, to us who together form this kingdom, which ends up in their pockets, which on the basis of hunting experience and the rights, have received this assignment free of charge. Of course, this shuts down the industry, for those who then offer these markets pay a very high price for them, since the market is small, because it is only a fixed proportion of resources that compromise these laws. If they were all there, it would be easier for the party to get into the article. We could create a much better marketing system, where all would be under the same rules as where we, in the power of the State, were running the market. But I also made it my point in my speech that I agree that part of the system, as specified here, submits to other laws. The market should not be a master but a servant and an important viewpoint, other than profit, may have to be the basis for the distribution of resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u221	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. During the last term, there was a bill on the control of fishing. Part of it was to put the government's resources into a rented market and expand that pot to improve the possibility of innovation, which is very difficult today and almost inaccessible, which is primarily via coastal fishing, as we have seen. I'd like to hear some attitude. To become a rent - rent pot, a senator would grow, and there would be some possibility of entering the article. If there's all the resources, now it's 94.7%, we'd have an auction. A senator believes that there would be some sort of grouping on the size of the projections, whether this was just one pot, whether to divide the country into some area relative to smaller settlements and large, powerful areas that have a lot of resources today and a lot of media; that there would be some separating there regarding the auction, some fences, or if it would be totally unveilable. I think it's time to take a look at the reconstituted route. But if it's completely open and unveiled, I don't see anything but the ones in this large pot, the smaller ones and the less moneyy ones, would soon be in the competition that would be there because the big and strong have a great advantage on access to capitals and are large and powerful in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u222	V.E.G. President. No, I don't agree that it's completely open and uncool. There can be very clear rules about maximum power departments and such markets, just as we have today. A number of jobs are having to offer their markets in case of patents of any kind. It must be the aim of preventing an abnormal compression in the article and an abnormally competitive position; just as at the grocery market, where certain shops have the power of size and distribution can reach lower prices and then become a market manager for price management; and not necessarily for consumers to benefit. There, the competitive authorities enter and the lawgiver. [[Up front.]] If it comes to what I hope to do, that we will change this system so that the resources of the country will be declared in a constitution and before its use, the competitive authorities will have to be there, in order to put clear rules on that market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u223	Mr. President. I'm going to enter the debate on the synopsis proposal for the treatment and disposition of the resources that are drawn from total resources and to begin by saying that the matter is all too late, like too many other cases from the government, and realize that this is where we need to take the matter into consideration and resolve it. I'm just gonna roll over the main points, there's a lot of nice things in the Senate arrangement and things we left green would've wanted to see differently. I'm going to start where the emphasis is spoken, but at the beginning, and the introduction of the proposal is the highest. A minister began by excuse, since it was assumed that the analysis of the current implementation of the 5.3% allowed total resources to be taken into special employment, social, and community-based measures, but it did not succeed. You wonder, because the fishing bill has been canceled, what is being done within the Ministry if this project is not successful and what needs to be taken out. It is positive for us in our opposition to the government that this council proposal is not for six years but for only one year, so it needs to be brought back to us again the next fall or spring. Today it was pointed out that it contradicted and was expected to be an error at the outset, which is spoken of as the one - year fishing season 2015/2016 to 2020/2021. This is quoted in a report by Vífill son of Karlsson, entitled Assessment of the Action of the Building Foundation and was submitted this year by January. It aims to shift more from generalised groundrooms to the specifics established by the Office of Living as well as that in this relationship a more consistent effect can be expected than in the traditional cohesion catch, which we know many of them. In many rural areas, the distributions have been difficult and demanding back and forth, and not all agree with the way it has worked or not. I believe, therefore, that it is a far better way to use it through a living agency, as it shows that it is a more positive attitude to do it that way than in the traditional way we know, because, unfortunately, it is, and it is, in fact, a different way. As a result of the eating system, there are other coastal areas that are under attack and need assistance. So it is imperative that we try to correct the saying system that has become too uncomfortable with many settlements, and that may be part of what we are discussing. The 1st team here is a beach fishing team, and I can be glad that it was the last government ever set up by the coast fighters. He started off with something a few more years, but I think there's some calm over it. We left greens, however, feel that an even greater proportion is needed, and especially so, in view of the fact that this can help with the recent intervention of this article. I can see in my area that this has made a difference, since more life moves to ports and a whole year's work has been created with the little boatmen who otherwise couldn't make out but parts of a year. This is at least to strengthen their business, since it has come from the weaker settlements, and especially in the west, where increasing the number of coastal fishing has been a great requirement for governments. You can see in the summer what foreign travelers love to stand on the pier and directly share in the coming of Trillas with the fish, even doing so. They talk about shell and shrimping. They should be reduced by one-third. Our agent on the pro board, huh? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, has called attention to the fact that there is reason to disappear from these shrimping reforms, but perhaps a little attention to the shell where it is likely to give again, especially in the Stykkisolmi, and therefore, there are reasons to think about this in two ways and not at once as this is done. I'd been talking about the settlement. It refers to a thorough review of the criteria and definitions that apply to projects, and I believe that there is a reason to do so in the coastal villages. For example, in Gímney, we see that it is not necessarily a law to force power on land, i.e. in the area where the broiling is, however, it may take other means to have such a place built, not necessarily the best practice, but, for example. increasing the growth of the squares so that harvests can be restored regularly. That is much more so than the islanders are facing because it is prone to making lucrative business throughout the year. Not all settlements or fishing villages that are in trouble and put under the same hat can be taken. We should think about it a little bit. Regarding their vacation fishing, it is also important that they take advantage of the seafaring industry, not necessarily the local eutrophication, that new ones are part of the traditional quotas to put into it, and not taken from the settlements. For the macroil, no. 8 On the front cover of the synopsis proposal, it said that macroil markets will be sold at a certain kilo price to boats under 30 grosstons to catch a base and that their sources will not be able between boats. It is also considered in two teams how to take care of it. We left greens are all for renting and for not being handed over. During the last term, a bill was presented that included placing on a large rent pool of the state, expected to expand with increasing total resources. I also think it is very important that income produced from these sources will be new to structural projects. I mentioned Grimey earlier, and then you can think that since there are weaker settlements, something may have to be added to something other than the sea and trying to increase our variety, so we're not facing something comparable in a few years. We watched a business disappearing from Deepvogia, where the operation was taken or said goodbye. In such cases, what would we like to do? We must want to increase our quota so that such a business can be met or done as it was done in Deepvogur. There were many practical suggestions on what could be done to increase the number of jobs or to meet these failings, and we, of course, can meet that challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u224	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I come here and ask it for my particular concern, which is the 11th chapter of the Parliament's decision to make the income available for labour rights on the basis of this proposal is a multiplicity-related project under the Regulation established by the Minister. This provision of 5.3% of total resources is designed to strengthen settlements that have experienced problems either because the food has disappeared or because of other temporary difficulties. I'm sure, since we have a system with marketd income, our income will run into a built-in project, but I don't think that their distribution will be carried out on the basis of a regulations set by the Minister with a very open legal warrant. There is no further explanation of the purpose of the intervention to be different from the fact that it should be established. We do not know if certain individuals or companies might be involved. So, what company are we supposed to go to? Is that supposed to be structured? For what? On any of the infrastructure or educational and health systems in the area? It's very open. That's why I wanted to ask. A senator whether it did not consider it more reasonable to finance the parish plans based on some system that the inhabitants of the region could establish within themselves how money will be used to the best interests of development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u225	Mr. President. Yes, I agree. I couldn't get over it in my speech by finishing class 11. You see, I take my heart to say that we open our sources too much through regulations and regulations, so that the nature of the matter, according to its own politics, or whatever it is that controls the scope of that Regulation. I hope that a professional health committee will take this to heart and discuss it and either try to change this law or to emphasize what it is about to be done and what it is like to be done by a minister. The program is one way to handle this, and because we're always talking about regional policy, which is supposed to show how it looks in the future, those who are building weaker settlements should be able to have something in their hands for a long time but only from autumn to autumn or from spring to spring. I agree with that, and I think it's very important that this should be done better. As I said in my talk, there are so many tasks that those who are ill themselves have carried on. The minister has these ideas, if he wants to take advantage of them, through the application program that has been forwarded to this and as the locals who were assigned to these tasks at the time want to continue working with them so that they could be elected to put this in or into a kennel with some particular export there, it might be up to them. But in any case, I agree that it needs to be defined in any way, but don't leave this open to a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u226	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. This council agreement has 11 sides. Then there are excellent explanations, discrepancies, but the 11th is the most dreary. An explanation of him is merely a repeat of what is being said in the past itself. There's no further decomposition. More importantly, this is a regulation that will be built and nothing is said about the purpose. I want to ask you why. The senator, who is one of the prime representatives of my section of a budget board, whether it is actually in accordance with the World Congress budget, first of all, to issue an unpublished check on the funds of the state funds, because there is no record of which money to be given to the highest power. A minister's permission to assign, and second, that we don't know what he's going to do with the money but a built-in project that's an enormously broad concept. So there are these two things that are strange, i.e. A sum of money we don't know will go to goals we don't know without a very broad definition. Is it not a little strange for us to be authorized by the financial resources? This is 5.3% of total resources in Iceland. Although someone may not feel that it is enough, these are no small value. There's no way to figure out how much money these could be, and we don't get to know what they're going to do. Is this consistent with our financial authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u227	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I don't know if this is in harmony with the financier but we can at least say it's not a good government. In view of the fact that we're dealing with the government budget and government finance, the new government budget is about which it is safe to say that much has been said about security and that everyone should be able to predict at some point how money will be spent, that it is clear. It is safe to say that this is not the case with a minister, as was said here, who might have an unpublished check - in what? Of course, that's not a good government. There must be some way that the minister intends to use the funds created there. What is the value, like that of a dog? A senator rolled up? What crowning numbers are we talking about? No evidence of that. Of course, those who are extremely big and who think that they know how to get the seabeds could no doubt add a coin to their ten fingers. I can't. I'd be interested if it came into our discussion so that we could imagine if there would be money from here. Would it interfere with something else if they were to enter a built - in project? How's the top? Minister to do this? Is this a clean addition to other structural projects, or is this part of what he intends to offer? Does this slip into a schedule, as was indicated here, or something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u228	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for her fine speech, and I'd like to agree with them. Councilmen who spoke earlier, Ingibjörg of Gunnarsdóttir and Birks Bjarkey, of course, that there must be some idea, that can be found at least the upper and lower limit of what could come out of it, that can't be totally creaked in the ocean with it. I think we have a clear understanding that there may be some uncertainty, but people should be able to give us some rough picture of what could at least come and at least. But that's not what I was going to ask. Rather, I was interested in asking her about Article 4 of this resolution, i.e. 17.3% to the nesting agency. They are based on parts of the so - called fracture risk built up, but during the last term, much work began trying to meet them and lift them up and help them grow stronger. There were many different measures to reach the conclusion that these settlements are strengthened, and this is one interesting way. I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows how it went, i.e. how she feels this has affected the fracture risk. I think this is a very interesting approach, and it's interesting to hear about it. A senator knows about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u229	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I come from a district where this operation almost began, i.e. In 2012, however, the last government started a project that has proved to be of relevance to the Agency's support. The project has caused a slight decrease in the number of people, e.g. A fish industry that started in the fall reminds me. It turned out that when I visited there people were very pleased with the assignment. Of course, more rural areas were added to, the Valley of Bildda and the British Valleys. Then came the Swamp, on grounds of something other than the site of the fractured by an organization. This dinner was part of that assignment. But we left greens, we want to stress that this thing needs to be increased, it needs to be more. I took an example earlier, from Deepvogur, where we know that science was carrying quite a catch, as well as Thyatira, Húsavík, where all of this is important. If we want to come in there only with a dress or a fish, it's gonna have to be a lot bigger. However, it is also important to remember that there are other ways in which this can be proposed, but there is, of course, very little replaced by the removal of some 33/4 thousand tons from all parts of the community, and the number of people in small places is reduced. If this is to be a serious operation, I think we need to take a much larger part in this and reserve the funds that could come from this on other projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u230	A respectable president. Thanks for that. Hv. A senator well knows these matters. But I want to ask you something else, and he turns to the mackerel. I don't need to state what our superior stand is about how the distribution of macrocomvotan is to be carried out, and then I'm not least referring to the bill now on a professional committee, the weakestly said controversial bill in which it is intended to give the macrogolquathane one more time, and history is repeating itself as to how those in the management board have done this in the past. We as equals, we are very opposed. We want this offer to be offered so that we can get to that right price, i.e. The people who are the owner of this resource. Here in this synonym, section 8 says that macroil markets will be sold at a certain weight price for boats under 30 grosstons and within the year. It also states that these sources will not be available between boats. It makes you wonder why that is because in the macrollar network, the resources are handed over, but in this part they are not, i.e. to reduce boats. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's reasons why she believes this difference in methodology, i.e. By smaller boats, the sources are not delivered, but by the larger, they are handed over, whether or not they are identified as the reason for this difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u231	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. This is exactly the case, this different approach on one side of the mackerel bill and on the other of this proposal. We are much more in favor of what is in this suggestion and support it, i.e. both that smaller boats can obtain rent warrants and, of course, the big thing is that they are not delivered up. As I said in my speech earlier, it's worth reviewing the bill we put here until the last term where we wanted to put 20 points. a ton of rent to the state that we wanted to grow so much as a total increase. It's very strange that those who may not be able to compete with the larger structures, i.e. The little parties with 30 tons of boats and smaller, don't do this, but of course we'd like to keep it so that it won't be said goodbye to the big ones, as the other bill says and we've talked against at 1. ... we'relikeawrong. A senator suggested giving away the resource from us. V.E.G. A minister did not want to accept it, but, of course, it is nothing more than that, when not to greeting, but to leave permission to six - year - olds who will be extended annually - using probes, this is to be automatically extended annually. It cannot be read from any other source than that it can be fixed for the long term. So people are not quite parties to themselves who present these two matters to us at the council, and it would certainly be worth asking the minister that this is, it is a sin and shame that he is not here. Of course, this case should have waited until he could stand here and answer for it, because I'm not sure that his substitute, which now sits on the side of the side of the room, may answer this very thing even if I do not claim it to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u232	Mr. President. We've had an excellent talk about this subject, which is a provision for the things that aren't said in the art world, the 5.3% which is a counterweight to the market-tracking system we live in today, a so-called dinner system that has long been criticized. I think this ratio would have to be bigger, but that's not why I'm writing that I like this saying system just the way it is. I think it has shown that there have been many ill - lived games and not necessarily national practical when it comes to the side effects it has had and that many settlements cost enormous amounts of money. It is often forgotten when you look at trying to get the most benefit from the resources that you and I have, i.e. Our fishing grounds may not care less about how the goods are divided and what the cost will be in the future. I think we should look into it when we're talking, we're going to assign a new species like the mackerel not to go out on unpublished marketism on an auction route, as has been mentioned here. We're supposed to try to find some other way, the reconstituted way that allows this article to become more open to innovation and possibilities for more people, not just the largest development, but the intermediate sizes of projections and smaller projections, so that someone is content with the use of the fish plants and others have the potential to have access and income from the fishing grounds. When they talk about the combined resources of the nation and of not reaching the full amount of money, I often think about Iceland's geity. I believe that such a resource is also something that we as a national community should benefit from, even though there is a discrepancy between parts of the land where the earth is, we might as well say that we should offer up that resource and try to make the most of it and then use it for the rest of it to build up houses for the public in the country. But we have chosen to use that resource as a community so that the public in the country can get cheap sex or warm up on their houses and cheaper electricity, such as public billows. You could continue to count that. I believe that money can be united and a just system, whether it is in this or otherwise, and I believe that we should look to that experience in the fishing system when we look to rural activities and in what ways we can make our settlement sustainable. I think it's so important that the settlements won't be some suitaries who need to go to the state each year to get support in the form of funds to look for other ways to create employment in their area. We need to increase the variety of jobs, work at it, and make use of the resources that are the products of the use of the marine resources so that they can be used in these settlements and that they can be built up. But we need this foundation, which is the way of the sea in the smaller settlements it has been the source of its construction. There are a number of people who have had nothing to say when they are saved. If people are left out of place and have to leave their possessions and other parts of the country to try to build up with nothing by their hands, then there is no $110% offer or any government support for these people. So I think there's a lot of things to do when we discuss these big and important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u233	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., has a long experience with fishing roads and here speak of a psychic character, so I don't say so hard. I like what she does, i.e. This peculiar situation that arises and we have seen so often happen in the last few decades, when life is practically taken off by people in one night, I mean when a man with considerable resources gives up or decides to quit, sell himself out, and take in his belongings and leaves. We have an example of that. A senator knows this better than we do, for the worst are from her district, that such things happen, and the remainder of a series of wounds. I want the system to have some kind of strategy to make us feel like trouble. But there's a paradox in my attitude. I believe that the saying could be run so that it will continue to make a lot of money in probably the most competitive fishing grounds in the world, but on the other hand, I would also like to prevent what I was to swaddle here. Today, however, it may have been quiet that one of the changes that have occurred on the system in recent years is the eutrophicated groundwater that is now in the hands of a living agency. His hands are different from those of the general population. Then when we were up here in 1990 trying to fix what was the worst scaffolding, I was seriously involved in linking some of the resources to a fish farm because they cannot be moved between the provinces. I'm asking why. A senator, not only from this council-sounding proposal we are talking about but in general, is it the way to prevent the blow from riding as hot as history shows that it sometimes does when the party leaves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u234	Mr. President. I think that this specialised urbanisation centre is a tool that we can continue to make better use of and should reroute the traditional settlements into this process, and then I'll connect it with the possibility of increasing structural integration, building resources in some way so that the people in these settlements could have some insight. When it comes to reevaluating the eating system, it is always said that these projects need so much forethought, making contracts for 20 and some year, but what confidence is there in those people who are not involved in their business? There's not much foreseeability. Of course, it could be said that no sane person will begin to build a house or buy a house in such a place. Yet, people have done so. What I feel is that there is a need for someone to fix and to be safe also in the seas, that this unregulated marketing system, which is now not a single process. I'm not necessarily saying we should have someone, what can be said, help that keeps growing and growing. We're supposed to try to make these settlements sustainable. I think that should always be the goal. So, of course, this special contribution will be very quick and alive, but the building agency will still have this tool because it has the task of looking to based views, and we should try to direct most sources or at least as every time it is needed for them to take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u235	Mr. President. The next or next to us in the past decades is, of course, Flatty. We all remember what happened there and how difficult it was to restore the human society there. Over the last loss of a similar fate in Deepvogur, Thyatira, and Húsavík, although the stroke you thought might have been the worst on those settlements had occurred less than at the beginning. But if you try to peer into the future, perhaps 20 years, you can see three, four places in which you could predict a significant possibility that when the family who carries the arm of a quantan or a developer just gives up or quit for years and wants to get out of the article, the community is in danger. We're facing this, and we know it. And compared with the devices we have now, they're a bit of a pass to try to take it down. I agree with what. A senator and I feel that she speaks with insight when she says: "There is nothing to intend to take an ever larger part of the total volume of this emergency operation. But when these things happen in the community, there are two things that have to happen. First of all, some kind of long - term development program must be established. However, there may also be a chance of resorting to some kind of immediate action, we can call it a plaster, or whatever it is to help the community get over the cut that will happen. It seems that we have seen it from these special dishes, connected with fish farms, and passed through a graffiti that it is much better than the general saying. That's why I've been thinking about it here in very short answers today, so why don't we go through that direction using all the general quatane? Would it not be much more fortunate and help us to cope in such a situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u236	I believe that the use of these general rural areas should be made in other ways, both for these activities and also for increasing coastal fishing because I believe that this is a good reason for the settlement. For the winter, I had a nice meeting with the locals of Flattu and in Thyatira, where these two TVs faced a great deal of trouble. Today we've reached contracts with parties that have started a renovating process in Thyatira, and it's all been worked by a graffiti and this special market. I think it's been a success, but the outcome in Flatturus is not quite fixed yet. I think it's very important that, in this way, when working to strengthen the settlements to survive in the future, this also becomes something that leaves behind something for building up, and it needs to try to get the locals involved in it, that there are not some outsiders who just go on one day and then the biopsy stands just as badly as it did when some kind of operation was done by a construction agency. I think we have to learn from the mistakes that have been made, try to work for some money and development in those places, but it is not merely an outside source that comes in through processing or fishing, and then we'll have to go to the beginning of the day. I believe that the architecture is working this way different from what it has been and that it is of the good. But I think there's so many things we've learned from this saying system that we should have enough to change and do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u237	A respectable president. I'm gonna jump in there for a second. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson started her up and down. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney just finished it. I wanted to ask you what. A senator in charge of how to behave this system so that, in the least, there is a need for action that is dependent on the recovery of problems on the system itself. I especially ask because I would like to get an opinion. A senator of what has been called the expiration route, or auction ideas around the saying code, how. A senator can see that coming, especially in the light of solutions such as groundwater and so forth. I know why. A senator comes from a district where the dinner system has been divided, if I understand correctly. Many TVs there have been badly affected by the events that took place. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson described earlier. It was on the basis of what I understand that the forward party, happy memories, has achieved its success at the time. But it may be for the reasons I get at rest. A senator as to how to improve the system itself. If the eating system works out, I'd say that it's a good idea if you were to take some form of possession rights, you'd have a lot to get in the way of it. Thirty-four. I think it would be a little easier to see which solutions to these topics are possible. Where it is. A senator has knowledge of matters, and I am very interested in hearing them out. A senator would have wanted to say if she had more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u238	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think a system works much longer than 20 years, and this saying system is getting older and better. I think we sometimes need to think in terms of having a clean table. How would we want to do things if we had a clean table, how would we use this resource? We left greens have presented it, in our national work programme, for which there are national meetings, that we wanted to divide it into three parts, labor clearances in Iceland; that 1/3 of them would be linked, 1/3 would be rented, and since then we had a provision of over 1/3. Thus, by such a mixed route, the availability of fish could be guaranteed in as constant as possible. In addition, the resources and fishing costs will flow into the state box and divide into the community. We're not exactly at the beginning of this, but I think there are things you can do to fix the current system, even though I would like to throw all the money up and start over. Sometimes it is healthy to do so rather than to be static about a damaged system. For the last bill, which was submitted at the end of the last terms, I would never have agreed to that if it hadn't been that powerful tenet that was supposed to increase the access to the article; new recruits were better able to enter the article.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u239	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. The problem, as I see it, is that we can't get on a clean table from now on. The code system is at present very high and it has to do with certain rights, such as man's ownership rights and the like. Therefore, if not simply impossible, it is extremely difficult to remove this system and replace it with new ones. So that's two things I really need to keep in mind. When looking for permanent solutions, or long-term solutions at least, we need to consider reviewing the Constitution. I would be interested in hearing more from what. A senator's view of the resource directive in the Council of Control. I like it very much myself, and it's our policy to record it and even the constitution as a whole. That is, first of all, the fundamental change I seem to be necessary, a constitution change, in order to address the challenge that is valid for those having the salathan to keep their possessions in accordance with the human rights of possession. Then we need to consider whether the system can be shaped so that at that time, while we're finding long - term solutions, we can at least, if nothing else, set the system so that we don't attach ourselves to something we'll never get out of. In this connection it is often mentioned as six years, that they want to commit the State for six years to ensure custody - even in the mackerel where there is no natural leadership, if that is the case. There we encounter problems, and humans try to find solutions to keep us out of this system so that we can never change them. We, in my opinion, need to avoid such things. First and foremost, we need to consider how to handle the question of the property rights of those already having it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u240	Mr. President. I certainly do agree that there will be a rule of resources in the constitution. This is essential for us to ensure that the resources of the resource flow to the nation and that the nation has the right to the resource. That's what I think it's necessary to emphasize, that custody is on the hands of the people. The government, then, is the person to whom it is custody. I don't think there's a right to possess. When we were considering these matters during our last term, we had lawyers and Supreme Court attorneys examine it. In the opinion we were given, it was clear that we did not have a right to possess. The resource is distributed to a year, with a proportion of total resources at a so - called catch. True, it has become a work course, not a privilege. The nation on the resource, and we're supposed to have no qualms about talking that way. If there were to be a court hearing and other developments, would it not be as good a test as that? But I feel that no matter what we do, no matter how we get out of our present system - change it or change it, and let's start completely again - it's very natural that some adjustment is in the way of the previous ones. I've been reasonable in the way that it's natural that there's some adjustment. But citizens in the country don't own this resource, they have no real rights to it. It is the nation that owns the resource, and we need to strengthen it by setting up a resource directive into a constitution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u241	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying I wish the highest. A good ocean leader goes to the Faeroe Islands but does not agree with those who feel it is important to have him here to answer the questions that have come up during the discussion because I trust fully active seafaring minister, Supreme Minister. The minister of the house, Harðardóttir Harderdir, who lives here in a room and may not hear my case, as she sits almost in the grip of her tiger coat. However, this has been a well - informed discussion, and the controversy proposal under the discussion is not the worst proposal ever made by the government. There are some things in it that look back at a positive direction, and even though I had wanted to see some things differently, I'd be happy to see them. One of the things that has slipped through this discussion so that anyone who has said goodbye is a pleasure with the Coastal Veterans. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, a spokesman for the senators of the House of forwards in this discussion, always expressing great joy with the coastal fishing. I specifically mention this because it was under severe attack by the former government, who were able to successfully implement this innovation. It was said that this would adversely affect the prospects of others who have gone through a period of hardship. That is absolutely correct. It was taking someone else out of it, but it was to try to level the rest of the coastal areas. I was glad to hear that say from this day forward. paritaprevir Páll Pálsson's son Pauli, an expert in this regard, believed that it had been very good. Likewise, it was a joy to us that was not always warmly welcomed by the forward movement when we were passing this through the General Assembly during the last term. A similar approach is taken by a seafaring minister. However, what the discussion has become, of course, is remarkable and shows the status of the seabed today and may crystal the dissatisfaction of the people with the armiculator system or its spade is that we have been primarily discussing what are open and the only openings in the system today are in the only open category of beach fishing. Similarly, in this suggestion, people have pondered over specific requirements that could be distributed to 15 of you. tons of macrolics for the beach fishing fleet. And it is noteworthy that in this suggestion there is no particular price for the mackerel, although there is a certain price against herring, which is also included in this category. That idea has developed, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller that a possible way to determine the price would be to offer a specific percentage of this. It would then put the price for the rest of the mackerel to the coast-fishers. This obligation, then, is what my party and, in fact, others have suggested about the mackerel, which may be one of the most controversial issues associated with the marine road for some time, to follow the preparatory route of auction. For example, for the discussions that took place earlier today, it may be appropriate to review it, at the time of the breakthrough, that the Union at its time, when it was formed, would be the product of commercial solutions on the fishing road. She was the first move to do that. In fact, I think it's worth a while to recall that the first thing the Conspiracy was about to move this way and because of it. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask stands there in the custody, raised under the hand of the prince we were carrying some of us to the grave this weekend, the son Skúli Alexandersson, who was in the Union, was the first officer to do this. During this discussion, people have wondered how to trust the firmness in the settlements through the arrangement that has been established here. She's all going out to have some of the Band-Aids that come with the code system. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson asked here, as if out loud, how could it be done? Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., reported on a suggestion made by the left movement in the green, is working with them. If so, recall that during the first days of the dinner system, when people were considering improving the system, they responded more fully to the needs of the people in the country and also the coastal areas, while they were still considered to be flat on the basis of a solidarity, they discussed specific ways. Then I review the work and suggestions discussed in a famous dual - headed committee named Vilhjálmur Egilsson and Þröstur Ólafsson were in charge of their time, and the way that men discussed was to be thrown out was to secure some of the quanan at the fish house. I think the only way, so I'll answer the straight question as a question. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, to reduce the damage to the system at the time of the blow, when the message is moved out of the community, would somehow be to change the system so that a part of the resources was linked to a fish - processing house. I think it would at least reduce the weight of the blow. Then they will say that it works against the system's efficiency, and it's all over the place. But is that not already done? Is it not when certain limits were constructed against compression within the system? Yeah. Of course, if we were to have a quota system that was just working to make the most of the marine resource and took no consideration for compression, we would not have set laws that we did at the time and follow which measure that the compression must not exceed a certain proportion in each article. Otherwise, if these limits weren't built, I'd remember every time I look out my window, live with the Unanastains, watch three, four companies who'd acquired the whole quatan, one on Akslini, and another in Nifirasey. Of course, trying to improve the economy is the nature of the system. But we have already built up the challenge by setting a peak that LIVU has long held out for years because it works against the maximum production of the system. Then we look to the thing that matters, of course, that we view our nation as having the resources together, and we are to enjoy it, and we can enjoy it more than just the profits it gives to the companies, their owners, or the state through the tax. It also counts that it will create jobs in the scattered sea regions. Then it can be said: Is it not just some romance to reduce the maximum performance of the system by keeping it in the inhabited state? But we owe them a certain debt. It was there that the fishing road built up. In this discussion, people have done a very thorough review, and I believe that the communication system has reached to a large extent the original objectives: cutting down the unfavourable system that appears in all too large a cable and, on the other hand, protecting the strains from overfishing. They've both been caught. Similarly, the goal of running an Icelandic fishing route has been very practical. Today, he is the most successful fishing route ever fired in the world. We saw this only during a recent fishing conference held last week, showing that the production of every kilogram taken up from the ocean in Iceland is 40% better than that in Norway, and there are no others in the fishing road. Mr. President. What I think we need to do is find ways to reduce the sudden changes in the power of the saying system can, in effect, provide a bad basis for entire communities as we have seen going on but minimize the efficiency of the system. There are ways to do that, even though I don't trust myself to take them out in the 12 seconds that are left. There are many suggestions for the assembly of patches to be used to apply the lesions that sometimes lead to the contrast side of the peristaltic system. [[The president calls.]] I have to say it's the highest. A minister commends that there is progress in this suggestion from what was previously possible, though it could be made much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u242	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a powerful speech. I know his heart beats the country like more senators. He speaks of some way to link markets to the home of the settlements and to have a greeting with the fish farms. I'd like to point out that more often than not, the fish farms and farms belong to the same party, so unfortunately it doesn't always work, although I'm totally clear that it's the right thing to do. This with the great freedom that has been, well. A senator speaks of him as a sponsor for the present unreflected exposition of the cry system, although he certainly sees that there have been many dramatic results. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he envisions that the serious pack that has been exposed to this unorthodox marketing system, which has been present since 1990, and whether or not he will have the same unorthodox market system in a new fish species, i.e. the mackerels, whether we have learned something from experience. I would like to draw attention to what was being said by the chairman of a sailor organization in Norway. He warned of the Icelandic route in the cryonic system, the uncool compression that had occurred in Iceland, and he said it was not to happen with the Noregs, where large parties are trying to buy out dinners on the northern coasts of Noreg. He said he saw Iceland and warned about what had happened there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u243	Mr. President. If the Norwegian were, I'd also have a very good look at the Icelandic system before I picked it up raw. As I was trying to say in my speech earlier, it might be possible to think of a system that, at least, answered the marine needs better than the present system if men were starting over again. If they were to separate between fishing and processing and link some of the resources to the houses, I think there was some protection. I'm also a little busy with it, as long as we have this system unchanged, in what way we can create tools that help us answer the sudden situation that we politicians have faced several times. What fellow feeling is there to do that? One of the covens is the natural beach fishing itself. They really are important. I mean, the beach fishing is nothing more than distribution, in effect, at a catch. They were established in the last government. They have been increased to 8,600 tons, and the macro share is being greatly increased to them. I'm glad to hear it. Me and what. Today, a senator has had quite a conversation over this document about how to make use of the small pot, the settlement, better for this purpose. It seems to me that we agree that the general settlement has failed to bring good results. We've been here today wondering if there could be more of it put through a living agency because it's given a better experience. But perhaps it would give the best experience to leave a larger portion of this little pot in the beach fishing fleet. I think it's worth at least one Mass to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u244	Mr. President. We're in the same place, me and what. A senator, to believe that an increase in the shore fishing section can be of great importance to these settlements. Speaking of coastal fishing, I heard today in a beach-fishing seaman from Susgav, who had gone on the first day of the beach fishing season in June, fishing in the dog-like weather because men are trying to get what they got. Of course, there are very different weather areas within the same compartment. It can be a whole different story on the British side than it is on the north side of the West. They're competing for the portion of the pot in each area. I've talked about it and others that a set number of days should be considered within each month. Some have also spoken of adverse coastal fishing. I believe we're going to hit two birds in one strike by attaching some X number of days. There would be no more days than each month. They would have been free to go in good weather, to go further out, to fetch more valuable resources, and to take full security. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator of these ideas that I will continue to speak to because I have heard from a number of beach fishermen who are in favor of them. I know the very argument that if the government's will is to say goodbye, to look back in time, to take some mean and share a number of boats, and to figure out some catch on each boat and say goodbye if it wants to? [[The president calls.]] Of course, I don't like the idea of a beach fishing saying goodbye. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u245	I'm so happy to hear it. A senator has received advice from Susvík today because she is here talking to an old tugsman who was from Susavík too, i.e. Me. On this matter, I say, first of all, I have had bad experiences in opposing viewsRafney Magnúsdóttir So, just because of them, I'm willing to look at them. Second, you should always listen to seamen's viewpoint. They've been good. Third, the safety of sailors. It has always been a matter of great concern for us senators when we have been discussing matters involving small boats and small boat parishes. All of this must be very well weighed against the reasoning. A senator made a list of his heart's character. It's a step towards the greeting. When we were at the time discussing the beach fishing and put them through the council, one of the most thought - provoking matters was that they discussed what would become clear here that they did not want it to be said. There was always a tendency to do so. I'm prepared to look at it. What I'd like to do is, we're here with 5.3% of the catcher, and it's supposed to be for this purpose. The question is, Can it be better used today than we are in order to establish the foundations? Yeah, I think it's possible. I think it should take what's now put in shell and shrimping improvements and take the general salathan to see if it's better through a living agency and through a beach fishing fleet. I think it would be worth at least one Mass for what. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, for example, uses it as a basis for considering what he wants to do in the committee, as his experience has shown. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u246	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's words are excellent, just as he alone is spoken. I'm not going to inherit it from what. A senator has forgiven him even though he has rushed here in a rage when it was difficult for him to like me or to name me as some terrorist. I'm not going to inherit it. I'm used to losing things from the ocean, but I'm not going to inherit them. We agree a great deal, and I hear that most of us here are impressed by our hearts being protected from settlements and always torn apart, how much resources we're supposed to spend in order to protect our settlements, and how we're supposed to have these things so that the nation will get as much money as possible from this article. I can hear it in the voice of what you're talking about. A senator today who is very favoring a ruralisation agency, and this is also shown in the report from Vífill Karlsson to the more efficient task - building agency. I'd like to ask him, perhaps better find out in the second question, where he would have been best brought down in order to further that saying goodbye to a graffiti. We have a lot of stuff to play here. We've got a line wire, shell and shrimp, and then the general groundroom just the same as he was. Where was it? A senator preferably carrying down?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u247	I can comfort you. A senator because he is not the only man in these sales in the last 20 years that I have called the Taliban. But, hey. A senator, an old sailor, knows that sometimes in the heat of the game, with no particular rage now anything that can be connected to me, sometimes talking to one another with two rams. But I'm glad to do so, and I'm more comfortable knowing that. A senator does not pick up on details. Where would I carry down? Two places. I've had doubts about the shell and shrimping and I think they should have been removed already. But what's positive about the suggestion is that there's a sunset about it. Then I'm a little technical. When experts evaluate matters and reach conclusions, I tend not to contradict them. They have concluded that while the experience of the denomination community has premeditated a small, short time, it is very positive. Why not do so? I'm not saying that the general settlement has been a thorn in my eyes, but I've only seen it over the years that he's been getting really bad at times. Sometimes he's been making good use of it, but sometimes he's been bad. The route that is gone there is a path that people wondered about and discussed very much during the years when I first arrived at a council, which was linking something to the houses, and it has its flaws as well. Then I mention it to make you happy. Senator I believe there will be quite a bit more during the coming summer. I just thought it would be okay if a part of it were to slip into it and to increase the beach fishing, of course the rest should set up an auction. [[The president calls.]] I know why. A senator in his heart agrees with me on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u248	A respectable president. It's good if that night makes you wonder. A senator sleeps better. Well, with the market solution, I'll ask you why. A senator whether he is really not afraid that it will only lead to a few strong ones on top. If something's to be offered, at least it's the stronger ones who will be on top of it. We agree to link it to the fish industry, and that's the future solution. But there is also an important perspective, and there is agreement in this group not to change this very much, not to cowers in one night, we don't have much to do with it there on the trade board. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We'd like to keep it down, but we'll just give it a tone, give it a tone, and it's all suggested that this is going there. With the shell and shrimping, I'd like a guess. The senator about what I mentioned earlier, whether in the case of deforestation, there is no reasonable conclusion that they do not enjoy the same degree of degree as others do. It's not what. A senator agreed? This is not a three - year arrangement, it is now a year, but it provides a tone that may be extended beyond the next year. [[The president calls.]] In view of the short - term experience with this arrangement, we will do well to continue using it, and when we gain more experience, we will have more to do with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u249	Mr. President. I put it this way that I wouldn't lose my sleep if people wanted to give it more time. But it is not too often that humans fall upon solutions that may work better than humans expected, because it was a solution that was out of control when men were discussing it as a means of reducing a fencing blow, which, of course, would be able to happen right away. It all worked out. For the Scaring improvements, there are ten, twelve years, if I remember correctly, from the beginning. And it can't be expected, or it can be, well. A senator, that if a group of plants are loaded, when a resource disappears, as it were, that in this case the damage is improved decades later? I think, and it has been said in my opinion, that the pot we address here has a double role, on the other hand, to support these small, scattered communities on the beach and, on the other hand, to give us the opportunity to come to assistance when there is a sudden crash. Yes, it was a sudden shock to the shell, a brief shock, even to my mind that fishermen or observers did not quite predict how this happened. This is a sudden shock. Then the system will bring its alabaster jar and we'll put some ointment on it. But we're not going to do it forever, and maybe it's been going a long time. Besides, I found out what happened. Today, a senator who has examined this matter is not entirely certain that the opposition is true everywhere. I'm just saying that there may have been some types of act that weren't supposed to be involved in this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u250	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who is already doing the right thing in the evening, comments on the moderation of the majority of the part of a business committee on a proposal at the council. There is reason to suggest a peaceful wish to the greater part of the employment committee that this fine matter is not made up by a change of four or five inducers here, in the course of conversation like the last Senate resolution proposal to treat the matter. The majority of the employment committees, as is the case with this synonym and those who stood here stuck in the council for eight days and eight nights, are now greatly appreciated by the minister in many respects. However, before we consider the material of the proposal, there are other minor items, for as soon as certain aspects of the proposal are presented, it is quite ambiguous in the way the proposal enters the council and how it is handled. The minister is required to present the synonym before the council. He must do so by the law as they were changed here at the council and should have done so during the current council. It is absolutely clear that the delay in making a case here each winter is not June 1 but April 1. There's a good reason why that date was inserted. It is to ensure that here at the council is a careful hearing. We thought that they had agreed on the contrary to political parties at the council. After the collapse and after the learned investigational committee of the Generals' Commission on the tremendous importance of careful treatment here at the council, having enough time, looking to the best sources of comments and suggestions on how to do so. Hence, it is absolutely unmistakably unannounced that a legal concierge proposal for an object as important as edifications in the marine road arrive so late. And in reality, it is even more tragic that the Minister himself who makes the suggestion should not even be on his way to follow his own suggestion at 1st. At the council. It only shows what kind of handmanage it is on the part of the minister to present the matter so late that he cannot be attended by 1st. of his own business, as important as it is now, since he had public business in the Faeroe Islands, if I have understood it correctly. Of course, there is reason to encourage the highest power. To make the government minister feel that he had meant something to do with his sentence at the General Assembly hearing in the last fall when it was particularly necessary for those in charge to come in on trial in advance if they were going to receive it. So there is a problem, then, that the program is cleared to speed up matters that everyone knew should be submitted legally related to, so that they can get some quick treatment at the council after the project is completed and the council should be on leave. This kind of work does not go anywhere. At the same time as regards the formality of the case, it is a pleasure and, in fact, a delight that the employment committee should tie it into the law here with a previous discussion on these matters that the Minister should receive the proposal in these areas, i.e. to suggest the provision of these 5.3% of resources which are protected in the interest of the settlement or the national settlement in this regard, but that he does not have totalitarian authority or can establish it just at his secretary's desk in the Ministry, but he needs to bring the proposal into the council and he also needs to propose a longer-term arrangement, as directed by the Directorate of Staff. I think it would be exemplary for the Committee to have ensured that the council had control, supervision, and access to the final decision to make as important a decision as this one, but that there is no expansion of the Minister's affairs in this matter. Of course, this may be the basis for such questions as whether this 5.3% is a suitable item for those built on the beach fishing grounds and for other measures in this pot, but considering that there is no more available to it than that. Then I'd like to say that there are positive things in the material suggestions the Minister has brought in here. I'd like to mention that move from large settlements to the home base. I think it's positive that some of these sources are being protected in particular to support what we call fracture prevention sites, built-up which have a special level of protection, and that there can be a longer period than one year at a time, because it is known that at the time of failure, all of us need to work to solve it in longer than 12 months. Therefore, plans can be made for three years. It is also positive to have a professional assessment of the Agency. It seems to me to be a progressive step from what is present. Also, I feel that I am looking for progress in the case of shrimp and shelling, that these shrimp and shell reforms that were meant to be temporary will be left out over several years in regimens so that they will not be overreached by the government of Sigurðardóttir Sigurdurdóttirs, but it is normal and probably what was supposed to be temporarily removed over a period of years. However, I would have chosen to see some changes in coastal fishing. I think that the positive experience we have with the coast and the great and general support we have in enabling men to do coastal fishing here in Iceland should give us reason to wonder if there is no need to increase their share in the total resources and maybe there is a reason to increase the share from 5.3% and something up. But I also think that there is good reason to reevaluate the arrangement so that in the first few days of each month there is no competition for the fishing, but that this is arranged in some more reasonable way, and I refer to it as an option. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney has set out, and so has she. A deputy senator and an ex-whicker. paritaprevir Þorvarðardóttir Þordóturdóttir. Then I'd like to mention that the increased share in the mackerel suggested by a minister is certainly positive, but you wonder if the offer or auction route could not be used to assign it rather than the one suggested here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u251	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to have a word with him about a few things. Among other things, he spoke of the beach fishing, what they had done for smaller boats. I can agree with him that it was worth considering whether there was a reason to make up for something to come up with. I believe that it can further contribute to innovation in this article, in this miniboat design, rather than if it wasn't. From now on, I know that life has increased in the coastal areas, and tourists enjoy observing when boats come to shore and are doing it. So I think we can be glad that we set this up. Like what? A senator mentioned them as being balanced in the fishing process. They started a little bit with a truck and a dip, but since the system was improved, it's gonna be okay a little bit. Hv. At the end of his speech, a senator mentioned the mackerel, and I wanted to ask him a question about it. On the so - called mackerel bill, the bill that has been there for discussion was talking about extortation, even at the highest level. A minister may not want to know. This distribution to six years of age extended each year - whether or not. In view of the fact that I'm very opposed, a senator doesn't find it strange that 30 tons of boats had the chance to rent catchs and that they're not sellable. I'm asking why. A senator whether he doesn't believe that this is an issue, the two issues discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u252	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. On the beach fishing - yes, it was a positive step for us during our last season to let them off the deck. In many ways, I do not say much, give good results, although there is reason to revise the organization so that these are not fished for all the first few days of the month. As soon as we have to consider increasing concentrations in the coastal seas, including the fact that the last fish in Iceland is not going to be caught by hand, I believe it is important that we take particular care of two factors that I think are mainly a reason to worry about in the coastal weather. It is the safety, safety, and quality of the seamen who use this route. I think the quality has actually improved considerably, but it can always be added to what we're doing. What the senator mentioned about the mackerel bill and how this bill actually conflicts with the prince's position on the other, that is absolutely accurate. I think the government and the minister must have fallen from age six, there's a wide resistance to that in society. Although it may be justified in assigning part of the source, perhaps quarter or so, to those who created us these rights, I think that in the vast majority of their sources, simply offering them a market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u253	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'd like to go into what's said here, i.e. pooled efficacy due to the mobilization and interaction of this general population and to the specificity of the kennel organisation. Senators of the left green have proposed for the increased integration of hunting warrants, and I support what is presented in the bill and in terms of the possibility of this development. Sadly, because of the consequences of the eating system, many fishing villages are not well - off. I'd like to roll two up here with a bang. A senator who will appear in section 11 dealing with incomes available through the sale of markets. I asked if he could see that these incomes could be used for structural projects, to increase support in small places, and to strengthen the settlements only through the fish. I asked him if he could see that it could go through the parish plans or other means, so that the settlements can see a lengthy amount of money. There's two more things I'd like to say. On the one hand, there are no calculations as to how much money there might be, but 11 of the bill is just referred to this structurally related project under a Minister's Regulation. It does not tell us how it will be done. A minister is entirely in authority to do so. I'm asking the senator if he thinks it's acceptable. On the one hand, I ask if he thinks this is a income that would have to be done, a dollar, and a penny about that, with certain anomalies, and if we should use it through the parish plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u254	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I think it's important that the settlements get part of this. I think it was a good thing when we set the beach fishing in the last season, that the beach fishing costs run to the docks, that's the income that's gonna be there. I feel strongly that I can make a similar amount of money from the mackerel, perhaps most likely through the parish plans. At the same time, I think that in general the resource cases - because it was now present by a party mate. The elder earlier in the discussion, turning to the energy resources available here in southwest, and perhaps not least the earth's heat - in exchange for resources and distribution of revenues of that currency, is very important to keep equal. I've always thought that a bit of reconciliation with resources we've been talking about in Iceland's Union, similar to the oil fund for Norwegians, must be based on not only the fishing resource that takes it into it, and the country's settlement is more than the capital area, but it also comes from the heating industry and other resources that we have, as well as to the collection of resources and in the expansion of it, is being maintained between the land's living and its resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u255	Mr. President. In many ways, this haphazard proposal for our discussion is positive, supporting smaller seaside settlements and other proposals are also seeking to intervene after the sea coasts are affected. I'd like to discuss just the 8th past... where there's a problem where you're talking about the source at macroil... and they'll be sold at a certain kilo price, etc., it's over at the proposal in two teams, the a- and b- team. I feel like there's an ideal opportunity for me to go on an offer or an auction route with that part or at least try in that direction. Therefore, I would like to be accompanied by a professional committee to discuss this matter of Community policy when it comes to the mobilization of the nation's resources. We have recently been well reminded that in our constitution there is no provision for national possession on the resources, nor is there any letter that the nation is guaranteed a sufficient price for the use of the resources. There is also nothing to say that a certain number of voters can ask for a national bill. The Makricevota bill now on the job committee and for the time being, we have truly been encouraged in this regard. Of course, I'm not comparing the macrovomedical programme with the Congress resolution we're discussing here, but there is a Prince's right to discuss when it comes to the nation's resource. The groups now at the board of directors, forwards, and the independent party were fighting that such a change in constitution was being accomplished during the last term, and I don't think they did it without reason. There is a lack of the law that now enables them to distribute the macrogolthane as they are interested in doing. However, in the Enforcement Policy of the Constitution, the main focus is that a new constitution will continue and the basis for that work will be submitted to the National Remuneration period since October 2012, when this question was asked: ▪ Do you know that in a new constitution, natural resources that are not in private possession will be declared national property? Then said yes, 84,760 voters, or 83% of the voters. Now, people have said, "There's nothing to say about it because it was so small. " The fact is, though, that even though the poll was 70% and all those who added it had said no, the conclusion would still have been that those who said yes were more than those who said no. So I have not seen that the people in the country changed their minds. It should be required of all of us that in the coming days the proposals for change in the constitution, that is certainly reason for this, and it will be spoken of as a national possession of the resources, with the possession of the public and sustainable use in the minds and regulations of national law, on the basis of signatures or on the requirement of the less members of the Parliament. This is very important, and the situation is now, and new bills simply call for us to secure it. In our professional policy in the United States, we are discussing the application and uniqueness of Icelandic employment and that we should use the resource resources for building up. This will be referred to the 2012 resource-based report on the 2012 resource policies that are to be satisfied with our important resources. But the core of the policy is consistent with the management of resource resources in terms of factors such as resource distribution, use time and the fair division of resource resources so that the resource sectors themselves can grow, grow, adjust, and deliver maximum prices. And it is also pointed out that peace does not come about, for example. The cost of fishing earlier than it will be determined on market grounds. The duration of a novelty is discussed in the Union policy, and it shows that it prevents viewpoints about host safety and competition and democratic rights, and therefore needs to be examined individually with the nature of investments in mind. Since certain areas are sacrificed for resource abuse or are specifically dependent on it, it is important that they enjoy a larger portion of the resource resources than other areas of life, and this is one of the criteria for reconciliation in resource matters and is in the spirit of sustainable development, where the social factors are also appreciated. An example of marine settlements in which inhabitants have taken on the consequences and costs of marine eco-efficiency, and it must seem reasonable that rural societies will obtain part of the resource for industrial development. However, in the same way that peers would like to profit money from common resources, national or marine resources need to be reasonably divided into a fair exchange of money from national resources, which means that the use of resources anyway in land or sea, should be in accordance with the conditions of sustainable development. The Union's policy discusses all the country's joint resources and how to handle them and how to handle them as well as how to deal with the important task of creating sound guidelines for the future. A respectable president. The time runs away, but at the end I would like to list some of the benefits of the offer that I hope the employment committee would suggest that be gone, at least of the 8th Parliament smell proposal. One of the advantages of the offer is that the rent payment paid for a labor share is automatically flung by commercial fishing and reduces the likelihood of political intervention for rent prices. Thus, the amount is not based on ecstatic decisions and the owners of the resources, the people of the country, can be sure that they are not saluting one person above another. It decides the cost itself, the price it thinks is able to pay for access to the resource by means of market bids, and it also prevents braking with quathane. It also strengthens the long - term environment of the marine route because political whims do not control with unforeseen changes in terms of terms. The distance within the system will be more with tender markets and innovation possible which will provide the most advanced opportunities for the Agency to be old or new. In the implementation of an offer, it is easy to take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect my specific eutrophication. Experiences from offers for resource distribution are widespread worldwide, and it is easy to look to neighboring nations for good examples. If the right course is to correct the offer of injustice, which means that the benefits of economic management within the range of few but that the inhabitants of the sea have the cost. A respectable president. During the same time, I studied the fishing policy that political groups in the Faeroe Islands are now serving, but it will be chosen in the Faeroe Islands in the fall. They're pulling out their policies, and every group in the Faeroe Islands is willing to offer an offer when there's a fishing warrant. For example, a group of sisters who have left green has claimed for ten years that this is the best way. There is one category, i.e. The crowd that doesn't want to go that way. However, the importance of the resource owners has been realized by the Hoboteers, which is the fishing fee the nation receives. Then the assignment makes food out of the ones she has invited. A respectable president. This was the most important policy of the Union in resource matters, but less of the proposal for a synopsis that we're discussing here, but why. The members of the pro board may take into account the UN policy and find out how they can use it to ensure that the Congress proposal gives the most to the sealands in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u256	A respectable president. Hv. A senator introduced national laws and resource regulations in a constitution that sounded like music to my ears. I agree with what. A senator in every way I think he is. I'm wondering, though, one thing that sometimes I don't feel quite clear about when it comes to the resource directive. Now it is usually required that the constitution be a provision that requires the resource to be a national property. But I went to some point to notice that many directors, who are in favor of the modern cry system, thought it was all right. In my opinion it is crucial that it is not only the resource itself that is in national possession but also that its rights to use it would not be permanent rights. This is something that appears in the 34th chapter. The bill of the administration board, which has to do with the constitution. I think there's the main reason why the resource directive should be long-term. It's not just the resource, it's also the quatane, or as it's called on the aforementioned bill, the resource rights. I wonder what's wrong. A senator sees this as a separation between quantan and the natural resource itself. In my opinion, it's not exactly the same. If anyone can possess a possession rights on his own, then it does not necessarily matter that the resource is in the national possession of many legalists I've talked to say that putting the resource itself into national possession is meaningless. On the other hand, if he did not establish a permanent possession right, he could be what we are looking for. [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u257	A respectable president. I'm a follower of a process proposed by the Council of Control. I don't know why. A senator exactly, he will come with a more detailed question in the next counter, but what I think is important is that in a constitution the terms of national possession of the natural resources will be forever declared and that it is reserved that rights to be distributed on equal terms only to a moderate amount of time against the total price and in a transparent and objective way. And there's no license, there can be no right to form property, but there can be leave for a moderate amount of time and for a total price. We must assume that when we stress setting up the resource problem in the constitution, we must. The directive is well implemented by the Council of Government, and I really hope that the committee that is now working with the Constitution will provide suggestions that are based on that work and then we can choose this as soon as we choose the president in 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u258	A respectable president. I guess next year's suspense's going up, that's for sure. Since I probably haven't made it quite clear enough, I would like to explain why I read from Article 34. but this is the basis for what I'm trying to do here, by permission of the President: ▪ Governments, along with resource users, bear responsibility for their protection. On the basis of the legislation, the management board can provide permission for the use or use of resources or other limited public quality, for the full amount of money, and for a certain moderate amount of time. Such permission should be given on an equal basis as it never leads to the possession rights or irrefutable custody of the resources. What I find so much stronger in this text than in the idea that the resource is in national property is that it seems very clear to me that there is no right to possess, is not a shelling system where the sears have some sort of permanent rights and can sue the state if it is somehow arranged differently, that it would not be the most permanent right. Now people share that it sounds like it's now a permanent possession right, i.e. whether the government would be subject to sudden damage - I'm not suggesting that it do so here and now - to simply stop making goodbyes to humans, it would be legally bound to legal problems. Perhaps a former legal director could explain to us in a speech later, who knows. It's this property right over the quatans, not the resource, but the quanan, over the innovations I wondered if it's not important to be included in a constitution, too, rather than simply to have what is already in force and that is in Article 1. legal about the control of fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u259	Mr. President. That's exactly what it is. A senator mentions the importance of this law in the constitution. There are many who say, and it has been said in this hall that there is enough law about fishing in 1 str. that the resource is the property of the nation. But then people debate, as I understand it, that there has been a dispute between the members of the board--now it may be that I am wrong, and those in the hall, that is, of course, just one thing now, can follow in the speech and correct me if I'm wrong--but I understood that when it was decided not to change the fishing system or large fish into the council, it was due to a quarrel between the board of directors of the resource. They agreed that the nation had it, but they may not have had it totally, for others had a custom, had some tradition, had it developed over the hands of the builders. It's because of these matters that it is absolutely necessary to establish a clear resource directive in the constitution that I hope will be in the spirit of a administrative body, where it's all part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u260	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to roll one thing up here because she talked only about the mackerel. One of the things you keep your eyes on when you read this, and I'm glad to be able to get access to a macro to 30 tons of boats and less money than you can get, but you can't hand them over. During our last term, we set up a 20 thousand tons of rent from the state, which was to be extended after the increase in total volume. What interests you now is that the so - called mackerel bill we've been discussing here is, in fact, expedite. There is nothing but a greeting when it comes to storing for six years, and it is extended every year, etc. At least I would have wanted to look at it that way. I don't think they're set. But because of him. A senator talks a little about the offer, and I've had a little notice on it, and I've only wondered if we can take the reconstituted route. I'm concerned that those who are small in this article and even those who are new and who are not very supportive can therefore have a tough lift when they compete with the bigger ones, if we only take the offer. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree that it might be appropriate to take some kind of reconstituted course, not just someone or something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u261	Mr. President. I don't really feel the need to go along the reconstituted route, but I'd rather take the reconstituted route than skip the offer. I think the offer is actually the only way that can make the nation feel comfortable about what they're going to get for the resource. The best way to offer is. The second best thing is that some percentage of extra resource resources run into state funds. The worst part is that politicians decide the price. I can see that in the number No. 8 In this synonym, a price is spoken for the mackerel, but that is not determined. I think there's an opportunity for a little experiment with this little piece of macilothane. On the other hand, the price for the summer cycle, 16 kns, is spoken of. There's something back there. A professional health committee needs to work better. The advantage of testing the offer route at the mackerel is that there is no history behind the codfish and other kinds of fish. If we're now going to give our quota, or we're going to decide that it's just some fishing fee, then I think it's a big mistake. We're here to ask the project, " What are you ready to pay? ' Of course, we have experts to put fences in an offerer's way, even the possibility of setting up new fusion fences. It is also possible to take into consideration the particular status of smaller plants but to use the advantage of the opportunity to make the money that the people should receive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u262	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. With fences, the politicians are getting a little involved. Of course, some proportion of the price required during the past few months or the average of any X time can be determined. We do not completely agree that the offer is the only true way. I'd rather see some reconstituted way. I'd like to discuss the 11th part of the proposal, the last person involved in the income that deals with the sale of resources. Now we are both on the budget, and it is said that the income of the provision of resources on the basis of the proposal is expected, on the other hand, to be derived from the unsettled macroils, under the regulations set by the Minister. It is totally open, and it does not really appear in any assignment or in what way the distribution will be. First of all, I think it's too open. I'd like to hear that it would be put in a schedule, in some particular community project, in a living agency, or something like that. I wondered if it would be reasonable for us on the budget board to have this discussion when it becomes clear what we are talking about because we don't know. Is this additional financial level at the level set up in a jointly linked project or will delay this from what has been submitted before, etc.? Would it be normal for this to be done there? What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u263	Mr. President. I'd like that. I'd like to think that these funds were going directly to the national parish program. The graffiti of graffiti is of great value. There are tens of millions under there. Some coastal areas have said: "We'd rather have the money - it's valuable, and we'd rather just invite it, and we'd rather get the money for commercial development in the area. I also think it's an idea to look at rather than go through this traditional settlement route. There is another reason to support the importance of setting this up for application programmes. Agricultural groups, communities that are not aided in the form of local vacate, could also be supported through this arrangement. There's a difference between us. It is a response to the events in the coastal regions, with very valuable settlements and, of course, much of it is important, but the farm areas that are in trouble do not get such valuables. I think it's probably part of my country application schedule and then divulge it according to the rules that are under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u264	V.E.G. President. I'm going to use my second speech to review the beach fishing. Coastal fishing has been assigned, or the Summit has been set up on coastal fishing this summer. It was put on April 15th, so what we are discussing now is what is to be done for the next summer, 2016. That's why you're wondering how it's driving at the speed here right now. True, there are laws to do so, but in the fall of this council arrangement, people have made changes so that we can expect a new three - year program just in the fall. What I wanted to talk to you about is what has to do with the beach weather and how we can move on with this form. It's been fixed very much, but what's been done about who can be in beach fishing, etc., it's a lot of satisfaction about that in itself, but what's been done is the division of areas that are divided into four areas. There's an A-field from the Eyjah and Mkalalaholts Jellum into the Slyslavípp, a vast area with the largest resources available. It has been found that most of the boats are there, and they always run out of their seasons first. The weather is between seven and eight days each month if it is well weed. We've been watching it in the news when it's announced that the area is closing. Some have made suggestions that this can be added by choosing the number of days and allowing men to hunt freely within that time. It's been called 12 days. I heard that idea today. That would mean an additional pair of parvos up to about 2 of you. I think we need to take this discussion and figure out how to do it. I quoted my first talk in a bill to legalize beach fishing as a result. The members of Ólína Þorvarðardóttir, Mörnar Árnason, and Skúli Helgason were associated with them. It was a suggestion to share the fishing warrants for the summer, so it was divided over the months, and people were then in charge of when they went to sea, including. To make sure that people are not going out in the wrong weather during the Olympic hunts, striving to use the time, making it much shorter, even less effective on fish quality and so on. I think it's important to take this up at the moment. A job committee can communicate it here. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, vice president of the Committee. I think it's important to take this discussion because that's where we're planning a little bit ahead. I also said in my first speech, and I want to reiterate it here, that it is very important if you use such a catch or allow men to hunt and control the days that it is forbidden to move it between boats, to exploit it in any way. It has to be clear that there is no time to greet the boats because we have just one more entrance into the permanent saying system that is not of interest. We want this coastal fishing to be an additional option that is partly contrary to the ideas of free fishing on Iceland's coasts. It is a means by which, though, it would be worth considering, that within certain distances of land, it would be permitted to hunt freely. In this context, I have always enjoyed witnessing that, in fact, all of us are allowed to hunt with Icelanders for human consumption and family. This is not to say that men cannot hunt for food. It's allowed in the system today. It's important not to forget. I just wanted my second talk to put it out and ask for it. A professional health committee is taking a special look at these matters. There's time to go, we can't change this for the summer as I say, the Regulation is, and then it's very important that you take the time to look at it, and then maybe you can take a better look at it in the fall if it's the case that you should move a proposal again at the fall council again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u265	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and entering the regional division of the coasts. As we know, there has been a section of both excerpts as to whether it is properly administered. Within each area, there are very different weather areas, and it also plays into that it can be good weather on the British side when it is boring outside the northern west and vice versa, out of the Patrekdir and in that area. These are different weather areas. There have been ideas of trying to meet these both by taking a comparison of years, by examining the division between areas, the number of boats within each area, and by what has paid off each boat. I think it's right to continue looking at the comparison to improve this system. This system is good, but there is nothing to say that it cannot be considered in the light of experience. Similarly, security needs to be looked at, how to bring in the best raw materials in the country, and to increase the effectiveness of these species within the coastal fishing section. The above stated, ideas on these subjects introduced work that was taken during the last term to look at even the possibility that there would be permanent days within each month. At that time, people could get better materials and go further into the middle. How's that? Is that what a senator is doing? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u266	V.E.G. President. Exactly like what. A senator mentioned this as a matter of security, it's about practicality, and it can be about some of the quality of the fish. I think the idea of setting fixed days, i.e. the number of days in each month, one of the possibilities, and the complete examination, as illustrated by the idea that people would leave for 12 days and then just take the masses that would come out of it. Somehow, you may be able to control the number of boats, so you don't have to move anywhere but by certain rules. I challenge it. A senator who takes it up on a professional committee and wants it to be checked, if not done now. You may not know how much pressure it will be to complete a council, but if we have the whole summer, there will be plenty of time to look at it, but more possibilities will be considered. Like what? A senator also said that there will be reason to evaluate how this has been spread. This is precisely true if you examine the weather on both the southern and the northern coasts, that is very different on both sides. If you go to Patrekjördur and then back to Bolungarvík, it's a vast variety of areas and can be a very different chance to catch fish at the beginning of each month. It is always a risk if you go in the wrong weather or take some chance to catch a fish because otherwise they miss it. I think it's all things that need to be examined. The point is that the coast should be part of this system, should have a specific amount. It's growing, and I'm celebrating it. Even more can be raised than then, making sure that this will not be a new quota system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u267	Mr. President. I think it's clear to all, whether they're in favor of a saying-goods or not, that if the beach fishing is to live, they must be kept out of the saying system. Otherwise, it's a device to open up the newly formed word dead. I just want to hear a little bit of attitude. To this end, a senator, 5.3%, in a predominant measure of action or provision of a catchmark other than the other part of the large pot, 94.7%. Counts 'em out. A senator's ratio is sufficient? It has now been torn in and is now being paid off by more species into this common pot, which is useful to this system than is thought to be sharp. A senator that may then link the beach fishing, the increase in labor? We're seeing an increase in cod. Could it be connected in some way so that a beach fishing could always get a ratio? I'm going to mention a 11.72% of the increase in raise, and that's how the pot rolls. Of course, he would also have to take a break if we had to cut down codfish in Iceland. Would it be appropriate to do so in this way to increase this pot, to benefit from it just as do those in the crop business system? Is that a 5.3%, not too small? In the bill that was being discussed during the last term and that did not succeed at the end of the council, we were talking about a larger than 5.3% in these sidelines with contracts that met in the long term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u268	V.E.G. President. We agree that the coast weather should be out of the terminal system. What I would like to discuss is the 5.3% in which they are added to pots or settlements and drawn from a total of resources. So I rejoiced at the time when the decision was made to take all the coded species under the fact that it was derived from everyone's total resources. I think that was a good thing for those in the cod and those who were against those who were in the ocean fish. I've answered before that I don't think it's, I think it should go higher. What I think matters also now, but we didn't get the big bill from a minister, is that it's now totally divided into the labor department. It was originally based on three years of fishing experience, as famous has become. If there's an increase of tens of thousands of tons here, I just think from the map that always follows the same percentage to the same order. Somewhere, people can put a roof, even if they want to take into account that they had an operation in 2007, losing 30% of the quanan, some newly investing in it and all of it. It is possible to have some adjustment period, but it is impossible that humans will follow through on this, even in new species, as there have been ideas here. I don't think that's an option. I think it's important to put some upper limit and extra extras in another way and possibly take more of the beach weather or infrastructure, as is discussed here in the case of settlements. We're always in trouble with the same thing. Let's just take Bolungarvík, how can we make sure that the biggest eater doesn't leave there tomorrow? The sacrificial beast is not merely the fabrication; it is the entire inhabited earth that will depend on. We've already tried this on the Westfjords, and then we can say, "Okay, we can buy the salathan, but then we'll get the debts in the article in that area, as happened with the Flatyrakcan of our time. [[The president calls.]] It has to be paid down, and the money gets out of the story.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u269	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, but he would have wished it to be longer. I must admit that I've always noticed that in this series of languages, it's so much anger in so many people that I've found it difficult to distinguish between ideas that reflect this rage and the ideas that actually reform the system in a reasonable way. I'm a little confused about it if I'm supposed to say exactly as it is. I'd like to have a discussion here about certain ideas that I'm not quite sure about how crazy they are. One of the people I've heard is to free the beaches. More than one and more than two people I have considered to be quite familiar with have mentioned this to me. I don't know how realistic or how reasonable it is and inside it. A senator on the basis of his questions about that aspect. Then there's the 5.3%, this settlement. In view of his nature, because he is made to make up for many of the terrible consequences of this evil system that people talk about, I wonder why no one has, at least not that I've heard so far, merely suggested that he's really high, that his graffiti is just 20 to 300%, or some really big number. I wonder what's wrong. A senator would respond to that idea. Again, I reiterate that I don't know how practical these ideas are and how practical they are but why to discuss them. This is a class where generation change takes place. The generation I belong to, and the younger one did not experience what happened in the early 1980's and 1990's, and the remainder of this is an overexcited and difficult discussion that is characterized by much anger, and then it is difficult to understand what is practical and what is not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u270	V.E.G. President. It is true that the source of the greeting will not be discussed in brief answers. It is true that this anger came about because a certain source was assigned a message for food, based on three years'fishing experience. It's a repartment division, a percentage of the fish stocks involved. Later, the hall came, which meant that the person could sell other sources. They could get the money for it and even get out of the article with the money, but they were left behind in debt. At the same time, the system was more and less closed, which meant that those who wanted to be on little boats or other things and had not enough quotas had to go to those who had more of them. The wallet was made from a different source than the one owned by the resource. This is what causes this anger and dissatisfaction and is the most sensitive part of the eater system, but has never been able to turn off, for it has been brought into the whole community once by making valuables, making markets for this unfished fish in the sea. Then there's a debate about how we can get it back in, change the organization, and do it differently. That's what's been torn around. There have been some suggestions, including that this is the right to work that needs adjustment. During the last term, there was a debate about making a pot, i.e. an item that would be rented which would be up to 20% labor sources where people could enter the market and rent, specifically stated, receive a right to use only for that year or to a certain short time and then use the fish. They were primarily talking about the access rights of a resource owned by the nation. That's how I can imagine this developing the way I was talking about earlier, that once an increase in the system started walking that way. On the other hand, the way that we in the United States have been on which proposals have been made to accept the charges through the bid. [[The president calls.]] I can come into it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u271	A respectable president. I actually have one hero story of myself in this suit. It was when I began to understand all the things I had never understood before and I had an idea that was then discovered to be more or less of the Continent's idea, so I liked it, this auction idea. On the other hand, I pondered the lease market. I heard why. paritaprevir Not long ago, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir goes into an export with a third of the quatane renting. I wondered who would then be subject to that arrangement, and as a person must ask: " Why don't we rent it all if it's the way we want to go? If they want out of the system that we can sell, which I expect men who accept this idea will, why not go all the way? Rather, what do I misunderstand about the question if it is not completely logical? That may well be, I'm after all, learning a few things. The question remains: Why 5.3%? Why not 20% of the settlements away from whether it's some kind of rent system or something? Maybe what. A senator came to appreciate whether he sees their rent system as part of some kind of rural policy. I also wondered, " Can I not just be free? Is it really too far on the fish with coastal fishing alone? ' I've missed a bit of a discussion about it because I'm completely unclear how crazy that idea should be. A lot of guys I've heard of, they don't think she's crazy. Others say: Yes, she's a bit irresponsible. In what ways is it irresponsible? And how far can we afford to go in that regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u272	V.E.G. President. I just mentioned in my speech that I feel that experimenting with free beach fishing is an option for me. Such suggestions have been offered, and on the basis of a set threshold, the length of application can be applied. True, we must also bear in mind that some right thing will follow earth up against the land that must not be brought in. It's the right of the sea. That's one of the things I think there's good reason to look at. They've said there's no risk, it's not that much quantity, and there's certain fish that they can't get different, etc. The restoration has talked about a new idea, as if it were new, which is literally in the reconciliation proposals for a report that is very thick and is on my table. One of the leaflets is the Conspiracy proposal for a system that suggests that when you receive 100 tons, you always turn 5% into the market. It's the currency for using. So if you want to keep it right, you have to buy it at the market, get your rent rights, and that's how you get replaced every year. Only about 5% goes into the market, but it should be enough to produce the normal fishing costs that the company thought they could handle. However, this idea has never been discussed. This may be based on a 100% distribution rate in the labor department. Then came up with a line indentation, a lot of smaller things, and it has reached 5.3%. There's no more science behind this 5.3% than that, so there's no better number than any other. When we're talking about rent markets, I've talked about being a farewell party or a public market. Today's market is on the market, but it's on the side of the project, he's buying from the project. True, this is a small offer because they have to catch very much themselves, but they pick up the little boats and pay up as much as a hundred to 200. for the codfish at the same time as human beings are dying because they're paying 10 to520 bucks. Hunting fees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u273	Mr. President. I had not planned to extend this discussion much, but I cannot do that with a five - minute talk period. There have been fruitful, excellent discussions, and many good thoughts about how to work with this pot after an incident, whether it would have to be bigger, etc., and there is much to eat from that subject. I had already identified the discrepancies between the initiative and the suggestions itself, and I don't have to say anything about it. I suppose that's what. The employment committee will adapt it so that the agreement between the plans according to the report will take care of it only to one year at the same time and the proposal that will nail it down to six years. This is probably not the way it should be, either it has to be wet. I talked mainly about the coastal fishing and building grounds, and I'm in a similar direction. These are the factors that I find interesting to the future, and I would have liked to see them grow stronger. They certainly do, i.e. in particular the graffiti of the European Environment Agency. In particular, I rejoice that there is more space for the graffiti to support the fractured areas and the weakened sea settlements with built - in European settlements for a few years, it is well, about 1,000 cod levels or so, and it will be up to 4,670 tons from seawater, which has become quite different and something that is much higher. However, it must be noted that in both the proposal itself and even the law, if there are any changes in the regulation of fish in this spring, it is absolutely necessary that there is a more solid land underneath with the one section of the cooking that is decided to defend for a graffiti, so that the arrangement to secure the quathane for three to five years, that is insured for it at any time, and that it may not be a sunset law in temporary requirements or laws that may be credible to create such structure with this. I also remind you of the need to revise the local language as such and as the rest. They gradually lost their bond. Initially, it was support for the smaller seas, just like the graffiti of the graffiti, but later there was a situation in which people wanted to face an intervening problem in larger settlements, and if I remember it, they were taken up in steps until they reached 2,000 inhabitants. No longer can you talk about what is a small part of the sea's settlement. This and many other factors need to be considered regarding the traditional and old settlements. With regard to the coastal fishing, many topics have been discussed. What I first stress on my part, and I'm somewhat obliged to do, is that the beach fishing will be open at the bottom of the story. My concerns associated with all the ideas of attaching these in days or in quantities are linked to quitting, starting with the idea that people begin to view them as something they have fixed in hand each year and wanting to be assigned to them. It may not necessarily be said in the traditional sense of that word, but if you are going to preserve this complement, that this is an open song for recent recruitment and training in the article, at the bottom of the article, you must preserve it in some way. Is it not possible, though, to face such views as security, and I will surely admit that I was with and have often had a lump in my stomach because it would be risky if the race was too busy to pick up on the days of each month's opening. Of course, such a system will not take responsibility from the captains, nor will it. In any fishing system, calmness is the responsibility for those taking the boat to ensure safety and not to take risks, but pressure may arise there, not to deny it. There are ways in which you can think of, and some very simple ways, to deal with it without actually interfering with the structure of the system in any other way. The simplest. Which I think would be very easy to do, and why. For example, consider this possibility simply that at the beginning of each month when a certain group of boats is reported into the area and if the weather is now clear on the first day or on the third day, lower boats or boats from the areas where the water is simply reported and said: This day we want to keep, for there is no sea for us today. Thus we could store one, two, three days of the six, nine, which are open each month until later in the month when we are better. This happens again within the month and does not disturb anything, and all that is possible is to choose a better sea weather later in the month. Thus, people could have access to the average amount of each month's per boat in an area, and that right should be stored until they are well fed. I can't believe it, Mr. President. Have you got five minutes? It's nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u274	And better yet, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u275	Mr. President. The idea as hell. A senator may be worth the noise, which may involve the solution to the problem we have been discussing today as to the coastal fishing fleet. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir here said very well today. I'd like to ask you why. A senator, however, does not believe that this would mean that they might be moving a little close to something that could lead to temptation to go fishing for this fleet. There's another idea I wanted to ask. A senator about the fact that I couldn't break it in my first speech tonight. We have 5.3% of the total volume that goes to what we've called here and they call it a little pot. His purpose may be twofold, first of all, to add support to scattered coastal areas, and second, to give us the opportunity to come to help if some sort of urgent need arises, as when a groundwork is built to the ground, which involves the sudden, sudden, immediate delivery of food from the area. The need to have funds to build up in such areas has been discussed here and wondered where it should come from. What does a senator say about the idea that we would put on the market this 5.3%? It would increase innovation, it would create capital, and it would all be put into building wood or in application programmes in areas that are fragile.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u276	Mr. President. In terms of the ideas I was referring to here, so more than one in the bag, I think, by some sort of arrangement within a month, that men could keep one, two or even more days further into the month if it wasn't a proper sea storm at first, the least taken to any idea that we have some intervention. It's just that you're in the group, there's a pot, and men compete to get their share in it, but you still have the right to report in and say, "I don't trust myself at sea now, it's too rough, I want to keep my day." And even if I have to accept an average catch in the month or month before, I'd rather fight at sea in the wrong weather. This is a totally minimal disorder of the rest of the arrangement, settled within the month, and has no problem with translocation between months or so. In terms of putting 5.3%, all the side effects in the system, on market, I'm about as opposed to it as anyone could be because these social, based, environmental measures are exactly the complete resistance to think this out of market solutions. This is political, defined support for a purpose, to nurture the weak seas, to achieve career goals or market goals, and that's not the best market to solve, I know. The other is that it is not unfair and good thinking, for it has often been written, that some of the resources of the resource industry go into development in the areas. I'd be happy to have an earmark of 5% of the fish fees in the entire national parish program. Then they would have a good - looking income stock, and they could start doing something about it. It would be just as possible to raise the income with a special lease on a fishing warrant, which is to be used either. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u277	Mr. President. With regard to the first thing that we had. A senator has a word about them when he corrects that this may be the most dangerous act of apostasy from the present system. But don't worry about him, so I just wondered what might be a classic thing about it, that there's a step in making people want to buy the days, hand them over? Who knows? These are the ideas that have just been heard, that's just the way it is. With regard to the pot and our opportunity to use what is in it to ease the weight with those who suffer from a breakdown of the eating system, how's it going? The senator, then, about the experience of the general rural group? She hasn't been anything particularly good and we've been doing. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir has been more and less agree on this. We should not at least consider taking him all the way he puts himself and putting him in the quadtane associated with the much better equipment there, all agreeing on what has been here today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u278	Mr. President. I'm not afraid that if we built such an arrangement that men could call in and save themselves some day because of a storm, it would go far in the direction that this was somehow an individual distribution, for men would have to use their own stored day themselves. Remember how the coastal fishing system is built up and thought. This is a private system, the owner must be on the boat; each owner can only connect with the development of a single beach fishing boat, and this common pot within each area. And if they didn't row the first day of the month or the third day of the month, but waited until next week, taking out that propaganda on the seventh or 18th day of the month, it didn't all have to be done, they had to be used within the month, etc. For going further on moving more of these sources to the Agency or in a similar structure system, I say yes. I think the system should be developed in that direction. It's just not a new thought under the sun, because in the fishing policy of the left greener, for a long, long time, for years there has been a trend where more fishing clearances should be backed up and connected to the settlements, more conjunction with hunting rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u279	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's registrar discussed his second talk far and wide about the coastal fishing system, as has been done today by other members of the council, where it has been discussed how to meet those who are on small boats who cannot catch up with fishing as hard as those who are on a larger boat. I understand that this is one of the causes of what happened today on the west coasts, where small boats went out after the big ones to make use of the days. So it was quite informative, big, and good debate over what has often occurred and is discussed with us members of the Parliament, especially with members of the local Parliament, in coastal fishing, and in appearances to whom it appears to be. Yet, many of these discussions have been born among those who work with the article, the beach fishermen themselves. They often have very many good ideas about how it would be better to make these adjustments. As I said before, I've observed with this discussion about whether it could be assigned some kind of day where people could save the day if the weather is troubled, because we can't have it that way, this Olympic fishing, that everyone is striving to go out as it is today, and we can thank you for the fact that no one's ever had an accident. What I want to ask you is why. A senator in, and now I come to the self-involved question which is a little more dilatation of the point I made here as a subject and a lot has been talked about today, as I earlier said, is whether we should think it, and how we should think it. A senator sees the pros and cons of it, that we didn't all begin our territory at the same time, as it is today, June 1, flying, all starting fishing. Would it be possible that the first area started today and another after five days and so on? [[The president calls.]] Would that be an improvement, according to the senator's opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u280	Mr. President. As for the first thing, I think that an arrangement with these saved days that I've been considering would be the simplest, and that is, in fact, just the least minimal variation from existing rules that have their own advantage. I examined a good deal in 2012 the possibility that men could choose between racing the pots and picking a fixed number of days within a month, perhaps 4/5 of the scheduled number of days in the area of the month, that they could have some means of making really a good choice of the day to row and smaller boats might. Some of these are certainly few, but I tend to lean on the person I've done to talk about tonight because it has this tremendous advantage to be an absolute minimal deviation from the system. That not everyone starts at the same time, there are two things in it. On the one hand, I fully understand the reason not always to load the hunt for the first few days of each month out of the market and the like. That's right, you might think this wasn't tied to the same start date in each area. But there is something else that might also be considered, and it is that this did not necessarily start at the same time each year everywhere. We see exactly what the trend is, that hunting is the most in the early part of time, in May, June, in the western region, the western and northwest areas, and so much more in the latter part of the summer and the fall in the north and east. Perhaps the evidence is that, in part, we could solve the equation problem, instead of May 1, the men did not begin until May 15 of the north and east, and then they were divided in at least two blocks that spoke a little, and then the hunt was also 15 days longer in the fall of the northeast, and it's simply the fishing process, it falls on a very good level. It's about half a month to one that is actually a physical argument for starting later in the north and east in exactly the same way that the country has a hold against the gray flipper, it starts at the northeast corner, last time in the Brefjörður.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u281	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator who I like to hear. This may be a bit in line with what I was asking about, the implementation of that area started on May 15; it's really such a hurt, the question of how to implement it. I said at one meeting on the beach fishing, and I mentioned that not everyone would start at the same time, just as it would be. A senator said, but I didn't say, and I didn't have time for my talk, from the market. Today, from 600, 700, 800 beach fishing boats, since the first day and will be now for a few days, which, of course, means that the prices, fishermen get less, the workers get less for their turn, but that's basically always the same, and the more they buy, the fishermen, etc. by going the way I was talked about here. The other thing I want to ask you is why. A senator on the outside, I know that he knows it well, is about the survival of fish and activities published by the Habitat in terms of the little boats, which has been made so much as a subject of unsatisfactory fishing. [[The president calls.]] Is that really so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u282	Mr. President. With regard to this market and distribution of these resources over time, I think it's something that's updating. An committee may now have a short period of time, but it can be coped with. With regard to the quality and low yields and little gains of the coastal seas themselves, I encourage people to consider many of these materials. First of all, people may not be applying for this because they seek out some great profit. I think a lot of people think that if they earn a decent salary, make a job, earn a living, earn a pretty good salary for the summer, it's just a lot of money. They are even devices that are used for other fish, including gray slips, or so on, so that people are not necessarily applying the beach fishing that in such cases yields the high yield of money bound by some annual bill or so on. They yield a lot of indirect gains, they create activities and life, income to reject, men buy benefits, etc. So I think nationally, the beach fishing is at any rate practical. [[The president calls.]] It's a simple and inexpensive operation to get the catch in the ground, and I'm not worried that the national accounts are negative in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u283	A respectable president. I cut it by what I did. A senator before he's theoretic of marketing solutions. I just think it's worth considering our attitude on market solutions when it comes to saying good news and fishing. As I see it, there needs to be someone in a mess who's doing the right thing, that's the whole idea behind the market, as I understand it. However, the market may be inheritanceless in finding solutions for things such as environmental problems and the like, apart from the fact that there is nothing in the market that guarantees fairness. When it comes to eating in general, it seems to me that there are really two main problems that bring up wolf spray into the saying system, I don't see that it's basically that there's a market law going on, not basically, but there's two things. That is, on the one hand, the original distribution in the latter part of the 20th century, and then the difficulty of shopping into the market for replacements, and in reality, it tends to take the place on property. Of course, you've heard criticism of this free exposition, but it's probably part of the saying system that I somehow feel - and I'm waiting. A senator to correct myself if I'm wrong about that subject - not the unfair in itself, but the intervention and the fact that the system doesn't expect to be replaced, something like what the Conspiracy has proposed for an expiration route, which works through an auction, an idea I'm personally interested in, I think it is logical in a hurry. I was wondering what to do with it. A senator in particular sees the ideas of the United States in this context, which is a market solution with various warnings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u284	Mr. President. It's a little hard to deal with in a very short answer. The fact is, in some respects, European seas are fully marketed, and Iceland has gone beyond that if not all other countries do. We've allowed men to buy and sell fishing permits, access to the resource, between them. For a time, we almost allowed them to be rented out, the access to this common resource. We've allowed a great deal of compression in this article, they're talking about it as a economy. It is the market there. We have allowed men to integrate fully in fishing and processing, not demand for separation there, and now cause considerable controversy, like prices to sailors. And we've allowed humans to form conglomerates in the fishing road. Thus, it is not just fishing, and it is not only a trade but also the sales business and even those of a foreign daughter, all within the same kit. Recently, then, Icelanders have allowed the markets to clean up in Icelandic fishing - or aren't they? And what are the side measures we are here talking about? They are efforts to counteract the negatives of this market, that is. I need something to convince me that we should offer them too, that's just the way it is. I don't mind using the market where it's a beautiful machine, but it's never supposed to be some gentleman over us. It is quite possible to have, for example, an active tenant, then deep enough, and with sufficient fishing clearance to form a reference price, so we see, for example, what men would be willing to rent for hunting warrants. True, it is always the problem that there may be some sort of perimeter price, so cheap to add a little more to what you have, so such markets need to be quite deep in order to give real information about what the payment is. You might even think about using the market to get information through offering some fishing clearances, and you'll see at least what the perimeter price is. [[The president calls.]] But he's not supposed to be in charge. I don't see myself being built on the seaside in Iceland, so the market is taking over all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u285	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator about the fact that the market is certainly not a good master, even a terrible master. But it's, like, cot. A senator says, it's nice to use the market where it's beautiful, and as if I see it, the market is primarily to figure out what's the right price. The concept of the right price is a little off because there is no right price. Price and value are relative, and that is why they need some natural mattresses to settle the value of something. In my opinion, some kind of market, not completely off-limits, not a market that we believe in as some god, but a market that serves the particular purpose of making a price. That's why I'd like to hear more, and maybe need a longer speech period to do so, about the difference between having a lease that I suppose would then be holding public property on the ground -- or. A senator would correct me if I was wrong; but the renter would have some kind of offer. [[The president calls.]] In a hurry, I seem to be an auction route much wiser than to start thinking about it on some rent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u286	Mr. President. In addition, what would be the situation in Icelandic fishing roads if they were not a roof, which, fortunately, was put into the law and could have been clearer, i.e. that no one enterprise or linked enterprise may have more than 12% of the total fishing clearance, 10% of cod, etc.? If no such roofs had been inserted into the system, and men could have combined and bought up and expand as they would - well, wouldn't it be likely that we had an old Icelandic pattern in this article as well as others? There would be three senior giants here who divided it into the main points between them and a few of them. You see, I think it might have been quite soon if the market had been left out alone. For rent or auction, there may be some progress on how you approach it. If you begin to manage rent or auction at a limited amount of hunting documents - that no one can buy but a certain amount - you are already doing a little intervention. [[The president calls.]] The problem is, you can't just say "A." If you go out and want the highest price, you have to tell B. Then you have to give it to the superintendent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u287	V.E.G. President. I want in the five minutes I have a provision to discuss the Senate resolution in my second speech only a few more factors, but I managed today to discuss the proposal after the minister's transfer. My approach to this fishing business has often been in the process of asking and trying to do my part in order to achieve a greater level of cooperation in this important way of work in this country, more solidarity than it is today, in which the article actually lives on having an distribution of just one year at the same time. In fact, it is possible to change everything. It's not good for one profession to have such uncertainty. That's why I'd like to say at the beginning of my speech, as I've said many times before, that number one is to agree in a constitution that the resources of the sea are the people's share, as is done in Article 1. The fishing law. Number two is about to come up with some particular agreement on how much will be put in what we have called the large system and what the smaller system will be, like we're talking about today, i.e. the exchange of these 5.3%, and how much it should be. Should it be 5.3%, or should it be 10%, or what? The number three is to set the price of fishing after what has been done and to set aside a modest price for fishing that all classes agree on. It's ours here to implement it. It was a big, big step during the last term by paying the special price. The general price has been much longer. The question is, What is a moderate fishing fee, and who should the trunk be? It's developing into a better system than we have today, including is based on numbers from Hagfishing and processing from the Haust lab, which are always two years old. We also need to be able to determine some sort of step - change, which is now that the more large productions are well equipped and will pay what they pay for at fishing fees. May I remind you of what was said at Granda's main meeting, good if it wasn't Kristján Loftsson himself who said they were happy paying their fishing fees. The stock laid can be very burdensome for smaller designs. I can't think of it as a respectable president that fishing spending works in such a way that they add to the compression of this industry. Then there is the matter of fishing the fee how we employ our resources in some kind of resource fund that benefits all citizens of this country. As I say last year, when the Minister thought of this 5.3% and wanted to divide them himself, he managed to turn it into the General Advisor Board of Professionals, so Congress laws must be submitted, and that's why she's here now. The changes here are small, let's say first steps, and as I also said today, but it is announced that there will be another council proposal in the fall. There's been a lot of talk about beach fishing, and all of that about the small boats. People sometimes talk about this fishing not making enough money. They may not be as profitable as some one ship and more thousands of tons of salad, but they are needed as part of the reconciliation I mentioned at the outset. If you cross Haggis and crafts from the Haguen, there's a statistical exchange that's been over ten years, and it's so hard to work out. Like boats under the 10 grosston - more than a thousand of them say that there is a net profit, or EBITDA, in minus 299 million. Then they are taken by boat, which is over 280 bridgetons, and they have a clean profit of 4.5 billion. This is how you can approach it, but what I'm simply saying is that it's so hard to break it down because of these old statistics that, as the Hague says, never thought of as some source of stress for fishing fees or something like that. [[The president calls.]] These data can be used to compare from year to year, but we need to know more about individual categories, and that's what I hope the economy will show in the years to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u288	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I just want to keep talking about beach fishing. They have been a lot in the discussion, and they have provided a number of tools for reporting at the beginning of the day of fishing, for which they do not go to sea because of the weather and for the day they are inside. I think it's all right for me to look at it. The switch between compartments has also been criticized, that the volume in each chamber and the number of boats in each chamber is not sufficiently reasonable. I'd like to hear some attitude. To the senator, whether or not there should be any interaction between the volume in each chamber and the number of boats, for example, whether it should be a base in all compartments and then an extension, taking into account the number of boats in each chamber. At the end of the Coastal Fishing season in August, it can be divided so as not to be burned up by a beach fishing catch that it could be divided into the chambers so that everyone could take advantage of it. Counts 'em out. A senator's opinion that there should be some minimum foundation, but would that be a problem with how many boats were in each chamber?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u289	V.E.G. President. It may be very difficult for me to talk about this for the last time. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir directed to me in response, i.e. and the number of boats. If I remember correctly, it was as it was originally done, and that's experience with it, experience in four whole fishing years. Then, of course, it is what has been going on in the zone. Why are there more boats in area A? Is this because people in other areas are moving their boats there, sharing in fishing there because they may have the best fishing, the greatest product, and they will not take most of the days to catch it, etc.? It can also blend into the weather. So in short, I can't tell myself how this division is. But as I said earlier, it is extremely interesting and necessary for members of the council to go down to the docks at fishing places and talk to the men who are involved in this system and have seen the pros and cons, to listen to them and try to improve the system according to their experience, but they often have the best knowledge about this. That includes the scene. A senator became an object of opposition. And it's also gonna have to say that I've heard most of this when I'm visiting the West on the fjords.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u290	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator reports that much has been complained west. Perhaps this is also because this area has not seen seafish in its area, and coastal fishing is viewed as good farms for the loss of the area. Now I'm gonna come up with a whole new question. A senator, and he turns to a critical market of fish, which is now a major catch of coastal fishing and urban waste, is a tendency to pressure mobbing into direct business. A fish market is a major influence, which I think we all agree that we want to see continued growth and that there is a market for fish farming to store and add raw materials when it is needed. What does that count? A senator that can be done in this regard? Can this be controlled in any way, or is it something that has just become like this, and the pressure from land's fish industry should get this raw material to itself and also from those developers, that it is rewarded to land in a certain fish industry, which we have, of course, spoken for? But there is a danger if this causes fish markets to fall back and to lose a lot of raw materials from this section, the 5.3% that are on the move.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u291	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator who sits with me on a professional committee makes a comment about what a fish market representative in Iceland would discuss with us at a meeting on a professional committee the other day. That was a very interesting talk, as they related their experiences and what is happening at the market. It could be compared to what I said earlier about what beach fishermen tell us about what needs to be changed and what has to be done. There, representatives from the fishing market told us their thoughts and concerns about how less or less goes into the fish market, miss them. Of course, it involves what we've heard from our partners about rewrecking. For my part, I am deeply concerned about the future and the development of markets in terms of less or less going in there. I'm also worried about that and I'm asking myself what it takes to have this revitalized license. Why can't it be done so that when a boat reaches a land, it can either be weighed in the harbor, and that's what is given up in a Fish Room or what goes through a fishing market or even a fishing market runs a harbor, and that's official numbers? Then it is weighing and entering the fish industry, which has a rewoven license, and it is weighing later, thus making this effect of nod. But, in answer, I share the same concerns as why. Senator of the fishing market. I believe that the great system they have and the way it's being practiced and followed, and that it should be further developed rather than done something that makes it less important and less possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u292	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech, and as so many talks earlier this evening, she would have, in my opinion, been allowed to be longer. Hv. A senator only went into the shore fishing business and mentioned that they were not so profitable but that they were an important counterweight to make peace with the system. I'm kind of wondering about beach fishing whether it's the wisest thing to do to make them simply free. First, there is no need to give attention to these areas, and it would solve to a large extent the problems that arise. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir talked about here. I wondered, especially that they are not profitable, if they could just be because they are not free, that they have to use their equipment, and therefore cannot use it as much as they could if they were free. Whether they are not profitable does not simply indicate too much limitations. Second, if this is not a free fishing business, does it really make the beach fishing free because it will never be profitable? Why, then, would there be any danger that people would go to such an extreme extent that they would be overfished? Most important, I wondered, " Can I find some balance between these two points so that the fishing could become much more free than by increasing them considerably? ' In fact, it seems that this is true whether it would be done by increasing the share of the small pot fishing industry - does it not? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - or by making it all a lot more free. I wonder what. A senator feels this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u293	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator always brings up a bit of fun answers and a pleasant look at things and approaches them in a way that is somewhat different from those who have been here and may have been a few members of the council or quite many members of the committees that have discussed the fishing system. Hv. Among other things, a member of the body talks about free fishing for beach boats. Five years ago, even six or eight years ago, I would have said: Yes, no doubt it would be better, and that should have been done. But now, in the hard world, which makes much demand for sustainability and environmentalism, especially for sustainability and all sorts of demands made for us as well as for other nations - although perhaps we follow them more than others do, I think we do better in the fishing grounds than in certain neighboring nations - sometimes with what we call self-sustaining fishing. What I fear of a free quest is that an organization that fights for sustainable hunting and worries that overfishing would take up a fight against us even if there were environmental fishing on the hook. Therefore, the answer is now: I think that the time has already come for free fishing boats in some particular area of free. I wonder, " How could we stop someone from doing so? ' We can't. Everyone would have to sit at the same level as this, and thus could become a free access. That's why I think, and that's my answer, that it's better to support the beach fishing section and work better to process that system, as I did to the publicity of the past in return to the dog. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u294	A respectable president. Thank you. For a meaningful, informative answer, a senator accepts it as a good thing. Then I'd like to ask. A senator's fees and what he said about their not being allowed to bring together. I can totally agree with that. I've always seen hunting costs as a replete that we haven't created a system that gives what people feel is a fair interest in the people of the resource use. Then I wondered, " Is there in itself any need for hunting fees and the kind of solutions if the way was done was the way of an expiration route or is where a certain item is put on auctions every year? ' Then the market would be used to find the right price, and it would probably be easier for replacements to get into the article, I suppose, why. A senator may correct this problem if I do not have the correct understanding. However, as long as people are willing to pay the price set out, they would also be set for a vision. This has somehow seemed to me to be the most reasonable solution. I assume that she would return a considerable amount of money because the part of the market that wants to own it, although it would be temporary property, would always have to pay the right market price. Then I don't see exactly how hunting fees should make the approval of the nation more reasonable or necessary. In fact, I quickly realized that it would get in the way of confusion for those reasons. A senator mentioned, that it would encourage compression. I wondered, " Is this an example that needs to be either both of us, or is it instead of a 'to both,'i.e. as well as some kind of auction plan, as well as fishing costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u295	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator speaks of fishing costs and auction routes. Hunting costs are the previous fees - now I can't properly remember when the general price was set in the frequent amount of independence and forwardees. This was paid for a long time and was raised from 8 K. at 9.50. ... inthelastpricedtime. On one occasion, a large part of it was dropped by massive recession in labor sources, etc. What is worst for today's fishing costs is to use the same method, based on average, that is why in the 21st -3 tons of tyllum west on the coast or in the most advanced of the most recent sea fishingship, Venus NS 150, made out of the arms industry. There's a mean take, and it can't work. It was interesting to me to hear from the headquarters of HB Granda meeting where the director said they were just happy with their hunting expenses. This is what many great inventions are like, a part of trying to create peace and firmness. But the question is, How do we argue it out? For example, in the coming year of fishing, fishing will rise, as is done on a professional committee. The same approach is used, as before, unless the reference year is no longer 2012, but 2013. At that time, the overall benefits of all hunting and processing improved considerably, thus increasing the cost. As for the auction route, yes, there are many people talking about that way. Of course, it would be so that there would be no fishing fees. Rather, it would take only a certain percentage of an auction, and then you would remember to offer in the same way that it happened on the fishing market. Right on. Then there is the highest price offered, but this does not always say that it is the best way, such as to channel resources between areas. There may be times when certain parts of the country would just get out and get nothing. Of course, that would be very bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u296	A respectable president. There has been no basis for discussing the President's conference board since today, but we thought there was an agreement on the continuation of the meeting, with some equipment on it. Now it's late to fall to midnight, and although I know that enough is the night for ghosts, it's so that committees start at noon. 8 a.m. and members of the council here in the group that, of course, need to prepare for that meeting and get back to their homes and back in time for their meetings. I simply intended to call for the president to leave this night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u297	A respectable president. Here was a vote for a late-night meeting today, and the clock is now approaching midnight. Many comments have been made about the lack of a committee board and no plan on how the Senate works. We had hoped, though, that we were about to land the way we were going to finish the present 24 hours and then have a measure of peace with regard to the trial. There's a lot of members of the council who're supposed to be at a committee meeting at the same time. 8 in the morning, so I think it's enough, a respectable president. I think we should do this for the day, because we'd like to expect the senators to be a little off when they arrive at a meeting early in the morning to discuss important matters. At least I want to pray to the highest. The president is giving us an answer to how he intends to continue this assembly, for it certainly seems to me he is not on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u298	V.E.G. President. I agree with the questions of members of the United States council and the left green. I would be interested to know how long this meeting should last. I'd also like to describe a surprising memory of the highest. A seaman minister who made this case and got on the program decided to leave the country after paying the vote that we'd be here for a night meeting. The majority of the employment committees have also not shown much today, although they have voted for length of meetings. The only person in this room is the highest. Mr President and I assume it's because he's on duty as president, not as a representative of the greater part of the employment committee. I think the minimum is that a government with everything down its top and the program is out of force for the evening meeting that she votes and wishes answers about how long this is going to be continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u299	A respectable president. I said earlier this afternoon to vote that I'd probably complain about this at 11:00 or twelveth, right because tomorrow's committee's meeting is in trouble. The top of the board and the Board of Education are discussed with the authors, who are good and are our cows. It is very important for me to get there after having had at least some sleep. To say that I am having a wonderful time over the discussions we've had here tonight, and I find the conversation very helpful, but we need to know when a respectable president is likely to conclude a meeting so that we can plan, to make it possible for me to call someone else. When I go home and sleep, members of Pirata ask if they can accept the cylinder for a good time. General and Education Committee, tomorrow morning. I don't ask for any more, a respectable president, but to know. There are no demands here, I'm not crying about being here so late, as I say I'm good at this, but we need to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u300	Mr. President. I'm going to agree with my friends and what. Of course, members of the council here have to know and get answers about how long we should continue, and I feel that I'm still not doing this for a while. I'd like something harder in my hand than that. I have two meetings tomorrow morning, both the Board of Education and the General Education and Education Committee, but it's just as it is, there's no value. The chairman of the legal committee had assumed that a meeting was even until noon, so there is no outside program for the council. Of course, it is completely disturbing that the government cannot even consult with its chairman in order to establish some program here for the next few days regarding committees. In addition, it is so unacceptable that when it is anticipated that there were 70, and some issue brought to the board of directors today, the government expected them to be taken care of. [[The president calls.]] Then you can add that list. This is an unannounced, respectable president. We need to conclude a program here so that people can go home and be prepared for tomorrow and read the relevant committee views. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u301	A respectable president. This place is a mess. The last Friday's work schedule was to be conducted as a guide for transport, a transport program that took out the two parties from the council. Today, the matter we are here is being measured, and we have been waiting for it all winter, and the highest. A seaman minister just leaves the country. It's all a little vivid to the position we're in at this council at the order of the board. They don't know what they want to do, and they can't finish it. That is still the case, so we expect to complete this council on matters that have not yet been brought in. Then we can't be invited to stand here for the night at meetings when we're supposed to go to a committee meeting the following morning when the situation is like this. These government groups just don't have anything to do with the project. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u302	Mr. President. Here's what we got. Senators come up and ask the president how long to continue this meeting, but the president has not answered that question. Is there a possibility that this question might be answered? How long will we continue to spend the night with this meeting? There are very many committees that have a meeting in the morning. I've got to be on the budget by tomorrow. 8,30 and more committees have to be in the early hours. Senators cannot accept the fact that the president does not comment on how long this meeting should continue. We need to know, so we can share works tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u303	A respectable president. There are eternal disappointments here on this council. Now, one more trip to midnight, and the president has not told us what to do with this meeting for a long time. As noted in the Senate case, in the morning committees are committees, and even a program, I understand that some members are expected to be at two meetings, which are now not easy. All of this is because the council, like everything else, is involved in nothing but confusion, no schedule, no plans, nothing. It is naturally impossible to offer us one more trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u304	V.E.G. President. There are no doubt some of them who claim that it is at the government stand to blame for delay in the Senate, but it seems that we are discussing this evening a law bill that is agreed on by all to be discussed by the Generals, a bill published by the government after the council was due to be completed. This is a fact. I think people could have agreed today if they were willing to, and if that means we'd become more involved in the program than we are now. I didn't mean to have a discussion about the bill that's being discussed right now, but I've decided to do it because I'm not going to be okay talking about a bill about the Iceland Board of Control here under cover of night. [[The president calls.]] We had agreed to start a discussion on the subject, a supervisor of more parts and smaller parts. [[The president calls.]] If that's not going to happen, we'll talk about the fish business all night until morning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u305	Hear, hear!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u307	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u308	V.E.G. President. In some way, if you get a quiet moment during the day, they need to find some cursed mess, often at the beginning of the day, and now they want to do it at the end of the day. We've been here all day to discuss the treatment plan and the provision of the resources withdrawn from the total resources, i.e. It's called pots in the fishing system. This discussion has been very well received, and it has been quite informative, and many new developments have been made in the discussion that is the best available on a professional committee. This will then be discussed by the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, one of the prime figures proposed to consider that the prime minister is both mayor and prime minister, if not president, and is in charge of more and less monopolicity. That should be until the night. That may be appropriate. Is it not fitting, then, that we do not. Mr. President wants us to stay out of the discussion so that people can do this in peace? It's all a force. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to hope people have a mind. It seems to me that there's a movement in this room and something is happening because this is a very unpleasant development. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u309	A respectable president. We've been talking about the fact that there are no committees going on before. I want to know to a respectable president that in the morning this situation will be up against our senators. K. 8 will begin a meeting on the Environment and Transport Committee at 8 p.m. 8:30 on the Economic and Business Committee and the budget board, which lists meeting time. 12th A meeting will begin at the welfare committee. 8:30 p.m. 10.30 of the General Information and Education Committee, as well as a professional board. There are more than one and two who have to be in two places at once. This isn't working. I'd like the President to make plans for some sort of preliminary meeting table for the days ahead, while there's no better way of doing what we're doing here, which is really annoying. There is no need for us to be embarrassed to hear that committee meetings are thus announced that the committee leaders have self - discipline about the time they are announced and when they are finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u310	The president would like to state after this discussion with the highest standards. Secretary of the sea has been here for a while, and the President intends to continue meeting for a few more hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u311	V.E.G. President intends to continue a meeting here for a few hours. I'm just like other senators at a committee meeting - am I in a speech, Mr. President? [[Foreground on: Yes. ...]] [[Take it up:...a speech...]] [[For example, I had already asked for a meeting board.]] I already asked for a meeting board. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u312	The president received the message that men had fallen away from it, but if it's a misunderstanding, the president would apologize and pray for it. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir to address the President's conference board if that's what she's willing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u313	I'll keep going. I reiterate it here as the chairman of some kind of overview of when it is possible to have a meeting, and it will be in the evening to use the committee meeting instead of these meetings unless the board members were unable to stay here at night. In our smaller parts, it is totally inaccessible, but we feel that the committees are better off at night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-01-116.u314	A respectable president. I can't really disappear from here tonight, except to say that I don't feel very good about what work is being done here and how the committee's being announced in the morning. There are major issues being set up for a weekend's program, such as a travel program. Visitors are being called out of the country on no notice, asking them to arrange for a meeting before the first aircraft from the surrounding region arrives in this city. This is the work now, and this is what the government groups have decided to do. I think it's unannounced, and I have to say that now the management parties have to step up and make some decision as to what subjects to finish here and who not, because we're running around here without any policy in the committee, they're being dragged here from the different corners of the country completely without knowing whether or not the relevant cases will be handled. This is the misjudgment of the council and is a disgrace to these governmental groups.
