ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u1	V.E.G. President. I would recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee on this matter, on the matter of enforcing the acts discussed here yesterday, the strikes of members of a particular trade union in the Union of college and Icelandic nurses. We had a brief meeting on the committee last night, but this morning we took a guest and got an excellent statement about the situation. The evaluation of the greater part of the Committee is to suggest that this bill be agreed as unchanged, with the exception of a proposal presented in the Committee's opinion to be added after the words of Iceland's Telematical Advisory Association, which had fallen for some sort of error in making the bill. In substance, we handled the case yesterday. Most of the above were discussed in the Committee how 3. The bill is clear, but it is quite clear, based on its information on the decision of a formality, that the main requirement of the procedure in making decisions about the salary of a member is to take into account the qualifications of those who are comparable to them may be considered to be educational, occupational, work time, and responsibility. Since May 1, 2015, it is specified that post-it should be regarded as collective agreements signed. The explanation of this reference is that this is in line with the process of negotiation. Then, in the United States, the general development of the country's prunes and the stability of economic issues is to be considered. This is the main point discussed on the committee, and in what way the Court is appointed as a major part does not consider to be a reason to interfere, for this has been done when more than one society is subject to the three members of the Supreme Court have received this assignment. In that case, we can, and we specifically expect, in the opinion of the committee that, of course, the parties are still allowed to negotiate and have a certain amount of time. At the same time, the parties are allowed to submit proposals for a specific feature if they are negotiated so that they can still agree on the outcome of treaties. Under this committee, the one quoted here, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Arannason, Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u2	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. The head of the General and Education Committee, Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, member of the Independence Party, whether they agree with the Supreme Court. A health - care minister, his party partner, is saying that by putting laws on medical practice, first-class health care systems are being put at risk. His words may not have been his, but at least his health - care system is being compromised. That's what I'm talking about. A senator. The head of the Committee, Konráðsdóttir Brá, agrees that this is not a necessary operation because it could be a way to negotiate? This government has the authority to prioritize the health tax paid by the people of the country, in the first-class health system. It could be done. Is there anything legal that forbids it? And if so, what is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u3	V.E.G. President. So to answer, if I didn't think it was necessary, I wouldn't be here measuring for this committee party. We had a guest on the committee this morning. We are familiar with the recent discussion. Among other things this morning, we received a representative from the Hospital, heard them from the Hospital in Akureyri, and were contacted by a surgeon in our country. We know and have heard a surgeon's statement of state. A serious problem confronts us, and that is why this bill is submitted. That's why I'm standing here measuring this committee party and I'm going to accept the law on this strike. This is not because there is a small task or something you would like to do, that is simply what is responsible and must be done, unfortunately. As shown in the bill, however, we can still negotiate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u4	Mr. President. Hv. The head of the Committee is agreeing that it should be agreed exactly as the government began. She just says, "Yes, I agree. It's necessary. There's no explanation. To say that someone planted the committee is no explanation. It doesn't say that this is necessary. Whether the government does not have authority from citizens of the land, it was not answered, not as a national authority to set tax priorities in offering large and improved compensations for the condition of nurses and other health professionals who are now involved in strikes can accept it. That could cost up to 4 billion bucks, I'm told. Does not the government have legal authority and no other authority to do so? The Senator hasn't answered that question. I'd like your answer, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u5	V.E.G. President. It is the responsibility of the Committee to study the bill, evaluate its grounds, and that is what we have done. A grave situation exists in the eyes of all the inhabitants of the country, both those in the hospitals and patients themselves, as well as those who have to pursue a ministry. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u6	Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u7	I do not share in dwelling on any political question about how many billions of dollars go. A senator wants me to say that he wants to put in the health system. [[I'm asking about the need.]] The task on the table is to decide if these strikes need to be fixed. I would not be here today measuring for this committee party unless I have conviction that there is nothing more to be said than to do it but to encourage the party to continue trying to negotiate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u8	V.E.G. President. It's happened. Konráðsdóttir At the meeting of the General and Education Committee, at the meeting this morning, and also, that there was a meeting last night that prepared for that meeting. The committee split into more and smaller parts, and the smaller part is shared with the members of the committee I'm going to allow myself to read mostly, by permission of the president: A large section of the General and Education Committees planned a ban on the activities of the bodies of the Union of Colleges and the Social Services Association. The minority also protests an incompetent hurry to the treatment of the situation, which has been very limited in time for the community to comment on the case and to the normal review of the council. In this context, I'd like to say that we were allowed to represent the guest they wanted, and I'm not going to criticize it. However, it was noted in the case of those who were asked to make written comments or to promote comments that they received an hour or three to answer. Of course, there is no delay or acceptable option for unions to respond carefully, even though in their case they presented key elements of the criticism they had on this bill. I'll read on, with the permission of the Supreme Court. President: A very important part of the right of unions to negotiate the terms of their members is the legal right to protect the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. The right must be restricted only if necessary for the sake of urgent public interest. As we evaluate this need, we should consider that it is the direct purpose of a strike to put pressure on data inputs to motivate him to negotiate. In particular, it must be warned that the state will put a law to end a strike that is intended to force it on its own to negotiate. That was quite a talk. It is highly unnatural for the state of which another party makes a law to force a decision. And it is even more unnatural when a person examines the bill that is faced with the fact that a judgment is to be brought almost as far as the right conclusion of the State is concerned. To that end. With President's permission, I continue to read: The main part does not feel that it has been fully developed to the relevant organisation in a natural way. On the other hand, agreements seem to have crossed the government's requirement to make agreements with the relevant partners on the same basis as agreements in a general labour market, despite the fundamental differences between collective agreements in public and public markets. In fact, due to the comments on the bill, it seems possible to detect that the proposed legislation is another thread intended to move the members to accept a collective agreement on government grounds. This involves a lot of inconsistencies, and it cannot be regarded as a valid basis for ban on strike. This is made very clear when you compare agreements between public markets and public markets, percentages and other agreements that are supposed to be in contracts for government employees, that they are physically different. This was very clear in the discussion with the committee this morning, and of course the discussion at the council has been held. The general market contains agreements with minimal agreements and can then be negotiated for individual enterprises and individual partners, etc. Such opportunities have not been made, and even as it is legal that additional remuneration can be negotiated through treaties, it has been very clear in the discussion that the law is more and less inactive because of the lack of capital, which is the prerequisite for the ability to negotiate stock agreements. So we believe that this state is using its powerful power in a strike - down argument, where the State is one of its own. It has also attracted attention and was discussed quite a bit yesterday, as well as on the committee that in the bill, a third person is always spoken of. The parties have failed to get together, so a minister or a government does something. But it always forgets that the state is one person. They are describing themselves as they discuss this, and this is made very clear in the bill text. With President's permission, I continue to read: The others also feel that it is a quick mistake not to forbid the loss of any member of the 1st par. The bill, although its position is very variable, does not begin. In fact, in comment on the bill, the results of some of the classes involved are not in effect and are hard to see that an emergency arose because of all of them. The minority does not believe that the function of all these classes is not to be banned, with reference to the influence of some of their strikes. You will find that the bill is even intended to include non - Witness members or to start a strike. I'm not sure all the people in this room realize that of the 17 members of the BHM who are in action and are discussed in this bill there are only five in a strike, only five. Here the administrative body tries to predetermine a ban on classes, some of which have ended up in socialization with their obligatory or have simply not announced a strike. It must be thought - provoking when a man uses such a powerful weapon as a ban on strikes, thus walking on the Constitution's rights and rights, a weapon that can only be used if the public good or the need to justify it. And the memory part allows itself to doubt that it can be applied in any way. This was reflected in a discussion on the committee. It is then said in the opinion of the remainder of the section, by permission of the Supreme Court. President: The second section also makes significant comments to Article 3. The bill. In 1st. it is stated that according to the incident the labour agreements signed since May 1, 2015. The decision seems to ensure that the decision of a formality is based only on contracts made on a general market, in line with government emphasis, but is not guided by recent agreements on public markets, such as contracts with doctors and high school teachers, as the unions require. The minority feels it abnormal that the procedure is thus committed to making a decision that focuses on another issue. The smaller portion also feels unsatisfying that arbitration decision is not set at any time point. For these two things, the smaller part makes changes. Although the memory part is not going to support the bill, he feels that he is obliged to try to improve it, if possible, to some extent make it less painful. The first point is that the time of the contract made by the Court is not limited in any way in the bill. It is assumed that the procedure may take place between two months of age and six or ten years of age. And in the case of such a serious intervention as putting a law on strikes, we feel that it should be time-settling, and we suggest that the sentence of arbitration be no more than one year, which means that men must come back into the council and discuss whether they will extend their contracts with authority or if they are going to resolve matters in any other way. The aim must be, for health reasons and for all the institutions of the public service, to make an agreement, natural and free agreement between parties where there is some vision and hope for a longer time that ensures that we do not have the recent conditions. The other factor to which the memory item points is the terms on May 1, i.e. to take into account the labour contracts signed since May 1. I was surprised to learn that much was wrong. The General and Education Committee should not want to make that date. I thought it was just a mistake. There is only one contract under which they are talking about taking into account. It is made around this milestone, May 1, and it has not even been approved in public votes. It is a deliberate attempt on the government to refrain from laying limits on collective agreements with government employees who have high school and medical contracts. This makes us feel very unnatural, so we suggest that this date will be taken out and instead put the last loss contracts to work. It is also suggested for the reason that if a person trusts to decide the terms of an individual's choice, it is also important to have space, not to be limited in this way by another party of the agreement. A sentence must be fully capable of determining whether and how much it will take into account other collective agreements. There would have been a reason to put in a lot of other points on this committee opinion, but under it the writer that says here, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Páll Valur Björnsson, Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. Another one that was discussed but is not represented in the proposed concept was the command of a procedure. It came to the conclusion that a sentence was reasonable for both sides to represent, appoint a representative, and then be appointed a pointman. There were different views between the members, between the BHM and the company of Icelandic nurses, and thus there is no suggestion for that change. There was also a lot of debate about having a clearer law, which I think was the last one in the pilot contracts, that the Supreme Court should appoint non-violence parties to sit in a court of law. But we are confident that the Supreme Court will protect their interests and will not take care of the other person's interests regarding the agreements so that we would not make suggestions on this. Then, of course, there was the view that might have raised more here, that there are, of course, serious doubts about the consequences of the law on the strike. Some people are responding to a particular condition, especially within the medical profession, but they are also dealing with the traders and the food industry, but many have serious doubts about the consequences of the procedure, that it will translate data, more escape from the class, anger and frustration that will be turned into unsatisfactory employees who will be employed in large areas of work, such as the Land Hospitals, etc. There are views that need to be kept in mind when making such decisions. The onset is that the smaller part does not support this case, but it still conveys adjustments to try to improve it here at the finish line.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u9	A respectable president. First, I want to explain that I participated in the work of the World Health and Education Committee and therefore appear to be a committee of the majority of the committees, although not being present when it was thought to be passed, and I didn't sign it, but still support it. I'd like to make it clear that in comments with the bill and in the opinion of the greater part, all the societies involved in this bill have announced a strike or begun strike operations. These companies, i.e. The law of the law in BHM has set out a common requirement, set up a panel of talks and agreed to follow through a joint action. So I want to direct that question to why. The head of the committee's opinion, the Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, whether he agrees that these communities are in agreement with these agreements, the budget within the BHM?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u10	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. First of all, the unions proclaimed a strike, but they were driven back by socialization, and they haven't been reenacted yet, i.e. The strike, or whatever it's done, so we're agreeing to law on one of the most sacred dishes in the country to prevent a strike. It's getting pretty far from me. However, regarding the common requirements. You're absolutely right. A senator's mutual demands were made very clear, and this morning the commission stated that the budget was originally set out by its own demands. Then, in part, it was that the State's wish to try to match these requirements and to act as one party, with the assurance that the special requirements would be checked separately. Now we're going to do a statement and we're going to do a statement with nurses and BHM. The second group supports an arrangement, but the second group does not. How will a person solve it in a procedure? There's no way out of this except through contracts. And start to get to the top of it. Councilmen in charge to provide funds so that it can be done. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [Presidentized on the Houses.]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u11	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Now it is in the 3rd C.E. The bill that shows what the procedure should take into account the decision made is set out by three criteria. As required in the opinion of the greater part, the main criteria for making decisions on the salary of members and other remuneration are to take into account the qualifications of those who may be considered comparable to education, jobs, work hours, responsibilities, and,◯ - these are the main conditions, other conditions are so ◯ after the events, to be noticed -- the panel agreements that have been signed since 1 May 2015 and the general development of the conditions in this country. And economic stability. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether this sets in both the time that a potential crime can reach, and what is the key point? However, I would like to introduce myself to the fact that, as the bill shows, the Court can take into account the factors that those involved agree on over the whole period that is being carried out and whether it could possibly take into account special decisions on individual trade union unions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u12	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. That's exactly why we're talking about here, like what we're talking about. A senator mentioned, education, employment, work hours, and responsibilities, why is May 1 installed? Why isn't it run out? I thought it was just a clean, smart mistake and more of the General and Education Committee would erase it. Why does he think so? There's some message in that. The majority owe us to tell them why they keep this up and have refused to accept at least the committee that this date will be turned away. There is no other explanation than the fact that one collective agreement should be carried out, that is, contracts between the labour market parties, which additionally set in a general red line that translates into contracts over time, they will be specifically revised. The committee also showed that there is no danger of these collective contracts in stability, none. The dangers arise if they spread to others. This means that the State has chosen where they will be protected. It is here, with our women's classes, our health groups, that are to protect the stability now and face the struggle by keeping the salary in public, in public markets. Now set a line of defense there. That's what we're criticizing. The other one that comes about the length. This morning's committee also showed how decisions had been made on the bill and expectations. From the Department of Economic Affairs and those who produced the bill, it's that the contracts will be the longest, at least as the general market has been written, preferably longer. We're defending this, too. We're talking about emergency. There should be a short period of time that will enable us to negotiate the market. That's our primary objective. I dare you to join us in trying to go that way if possible, but not about to create the highest-level monarchy. Governments. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u13	President. The rights of hearts have been won by the great struggle of our predecessors for decades. That's why I look in horror at how these rights are taken away, one by one. A trip is now being started to remove a strike rights from public employees. There's news, and there's a big setback. This route is started, and it is clear that unless you are not going to meet the changes proposed by the smaller parts in order to reduce the stress of your anger, you will find it difficult to wind down from the events that are going on here and the intrepid conditions that arise. Clearly, the state has drawn its feet, when it comes to practical suggestions or suggestions on how these issues might be resolved before the assassination is taken care of, i.e. if the representatives of the State have taken the lead in making a total statement. I want to, because a lot of what I would like to say has been presented in a talk. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Son of Hannesson, to read here a declaration that came yesterday from BHM and FIH by permission of presidents: This afternoon, the Allied Council will deal with the government's bill to legalize the continuation of BHM and the company of Icelandic nurses. This government interference with strike rights and social freedom of unions is a serious intervention in the legitimate function of unions. Up to 74th. Iceland's constitution and 1 1 1. In general, the European Convention is a prohibition against interference by the government and the Lawgiver. The Allied Parliament agreed to the bill is members of the BHM and the Icelandic Nurses' Féggills, who are deprived of the decoding measures their union has to force on the terms of contract status. By means of the bill, the state that another disputer has to propose a law in which he is involved. Again and again, the state has been in public talks since its beginning. A BHM and the World Health Organization of Icelandic nurses encourage general members not to agree to the strike operations bill and direct it to the government to come seriously to the table of negotiations. It is clear that the General will agree with these laws, and I would like to challenge the government to show that this has not been mere negotiations with the unions and to bring some proposals, but will not force these organizations to do a crime. I have no reason to expect that my challenge to be heard rather than on the first day when you offer suggestions for reform, for we, of course, live in the majority of cases. President. I've had a lot of letters from nurses lately. One letter, which I received last night, was very striking and touched me very much. I'm going to read it a letter to the House of Congress. I hope it has to do with members of Congress in the same way that it has touched me, because it has somehow been turned upside down and made to appear that nurses don't care about human life -- which is a horn, putting it up like this, it's a sledgehammer, President. I changed the letter a little so that yesterday I could not be distinguished from the fine nurse who wrote me. By permission of the President: ▪ I've been watching outside the General Assembly all day, put in a letter of resignation like that on the steps, and will put in a letter of resignation on Monday with grief in my heart. We have a lot of grief in our great and good group of nurses after we have heard what the plan is. A lot of people already quit. Even more will do so next week, for today there is no hope of being small - minded in governments but of becoming angry and sad. Today, the so - called plan B or even C. It is always this way when we medical personnel deal with emergency situations and acutely ill patients, we need to respond quickly and deal with them with professionalism and safety. We are accustomed to dealing with situations that are truly difficult to deal with. As a ICU nurse with decades of experience, it tells itself that I'm used to it. I deal with the weakest of the patients in the country that requires enormous expertise. We are talking about patients who may temporarily require mechanical ventilation, renal machines, adrenergic, cardiopulmonary, thoracic, volume replacement, and medicinal products, for example, for the maintenance of circulation, anaesthesia, and pain relief, and so on. There are rare patients from burns, drowning, trauma, brain surgery and other organs, adults and children. Relatives, they are much of our nursing care. It tells itself that it takes years to build specialized people in such a department. I'm afraid that many intensive care nurses will consider changes, reports, and most of my worries, apart from the need to flee my country, for example, that there will be no longer any room for intensive care if a certain percentage of them reveal and look for other tickets. I believe there are already at least 30 to 50% of the department on leave in Norway, Denmark and elsewhere. To reiterate our loyalty to LSH and our patients, I am told that we nurses founded the Society of Hope, a company for the support of LSH intensive care unit in Fos Soggi, in 2008, where we felt that a fronting room for our clients was a disgrace. We, by means of telethon and more, have held it up by purchases of mubs and so forth. We also provide patient strength regularly. I'm talking about the happy gathering of millions of us in our leisure time. Yeah, so much about it. I would like to state, Mr. President, that this person had no idea that I would read this letter and is not trying to beat his chest for a good deed. I would like to ask you, senators of the greater part, to listen to what was written in this letter, for that is a serious news. And your actions here today will only increase the problem, but not solve it. I am very worried about what is being done, not just with the system, but with all the good people working in our health. What are we doing? What kind of disrespect is this? I dare you, senators of the greater part, the majority of you, to meet the changes I know these communities have requested that we make and you weren't ready to react this morning; I hope you will consider your mind before votes and votes for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u14	Mr. President. I think there's self-diving if, on this sad day, that's quite beautiful outside, it's what's stated in Article 3. the bill for a particular time, is not a basis for a contract search. The date wouldn't be there unless it's intended to frame a set agreement as a reference, that's just the way it is. I don't realize that if the members of the greater body believe that other contracts that the public employees have signed, as shown at a meeting of the Committee, including This morning, looking for a deal. If people believe that the sentence of making decisions about their other remuneration, by permission of the president, is based on the terms of those with comparable abilities, if people think it's enough, I don't understand why it's not changed, because that date obviously doesn't matter. So I think, more dignified President, that people are in some sort of self-divilization match, as it were, at the turn of the day. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevard's tape earlier. I can't understand this any other way. Officers of both the Ministry of prosecuting and the Ministry of Economics this morning spoke of the legendary dolphin race, i.e. that when one class has a significant increase in pay, other classes cannot get the same thing because they all float here. It was also noted that, according to the government budget and any other budget, there are no favors other than a 3.5% increase in pay. So I don't see anything else, a respectable president, but that not only were the talks virtual talks but they're also virtual. It's to get the government and the contract board out of this situation, men take responsibility, it's somebody else with it, it's a case, the Supreme Court's appointing someone in a court of law so we don't have to take responsibility for this. That is how I feel after conversations with people and very good comments we received. I can't understand it in any other way, and I find it very sad, for it has been observed that even though surgeons described a very difficult situation, he has also said: "This operation does not solve the problem. The flight from these classes is vast and has been, and it continues. We're not getting into the core, we need more money, that's obvious. You can't say that this is the case if you're not prepared for any change beyond what you've offered, it's clear. It is inconsistencies that, in this case, one person, in the state, may allow himself to set laws against his negotiater, to force the person against a wall because he has no choice. If you're in negotiations with the state, you have no choice because the state can always put you up to a wall like this. This is not a good way for negotiations, and we need to get out of it somehow. I'm sorry, I'm terribly ill at this procedure, and naturally, and we in the smaller section have suggested that the bill be dismissed. We believe that it should continue our discussion, but, of course, the state, as I said before, needs to present some additional amount of money to make it possible. Things are set up on the part of the State that it is all or nothing, that people are inflexible and just want all the raise, I thought it would shine through in this morning's financial hearing, that it was as if the Alliance of college and nurses were impenetrable when it came to payoffs. It's not that, anyway, people don't agree on it. It was noted that the expert's first salary was exactly 267,850 k, if I noticed correctly, but it was as if BHM wanted the first salary to be up to 400 yards. K. Tomorrow. I don't think people have worked enough to try to communicate, to grasp the contents of what was requested. Among other things, appreciation for pay - pay education is listed as being very detailed in the opinion of the Protestant Alliance how people earn it, what needs to be taken into consideration. And would it not be surprising that people with many years of university education would want to earn some of the money? It is also important that we realize that this bill does not just focus on health care. There are many societies underneath and, as previously traced, there are also unions that haven't announced a strike, they're taking over their rights. It's practically putting people in storage too with what is being said here, and it's serious. How sad it is to have to face such a situation and know that you cannot resist it! And I don't talk about the people who are in negotiations. We here, though, are just trying to resist but are not involved in a strike. It's not gonna take on us and our families. We get paid, but a large proportion of these classes, like midwives, have been paid only a very small part of their wages in spite of working full - time. This is a very unnatural arrangement in so many respects. A respectable president. I don't think the other part has received the information that came along. this morning's meeting, apart from the fact that this was kind of blown up time, we would have had to discuss it much better and longer. However, there were many viewpoints with regard to human rights and general social freedom and many of the things worth considering, and, of course, these communities must put themselves in the test for this belief, that they can also deprive the rights that are not even a strike or that have announced strikes. And what I think is by far the most interesting, except for, of course, the human rights and the Constitution rights which is completely premiumed by my bill, is whether any other contracts that the public employees have signed are under. Those who intend to accept this bill afterwards must ask themselves, " Do I really believe in it, in view of the fact that the health minister says in yesterday's discussions that he can't see anything that could lead to change the situation? But then he wasn't making a legal statement, but just as the situation was. Now, if he's not going to do anything, he's not going to add anything or do anything to help, what's he saying? Does he mean, then, that he is going to lay on the hands of long - term public agreements? I don't know about that, Mr. Honorable President, but at least it looks that way. When compared with such diverse groups, such as those in the general labour market and the public, such as the driving force. Jónasson And then I ask people to think that public employees don't have the same opportunity for many things because the law on them is very stiff. They do not necessarily have the opportunity to attend a staff interview and ask for a higher salary, that is clear. It's all tied up in certain contracts. I think if people want to take into account some Norwegian model, they need to take things all the way. We cannot choose to do things at times and sometimes not, so when a financial secretary speaks of taking such routes, he must take everything in the package, as well as what the health minister has said. A respectable president. I'm not going to talk about it very much, but I'm just really down there, I think it's a sad moment to be in this situation. If people really believe it, as I said before, to 3rd par. contains the opportunity to make contracts of public employees who have been made during the last loss, when it is self-diving, that is clear, because this date was not being inserted. So I think people only have to look at their course if they really believe in it and suggest, if people are convinced of it, that they will vote for our vote which includes the change to take out the date and put in the singlest of losses. Then we'll probably have it arranged, but not dependent on some interpretations, because it's obvious here that people will interpret it differently. I would like to reiterate that this is a class, not just within the medical system, where people have worked under intense stress in the long run and where they have been subversized. Their well - being is rarely discussed in itself, although we know that such conditions have been difficult in many areas as in other areas of society, something that is never under discussion. Of course, it should be as different as any other. We do not want our people to burn out in their jobs, we want them to be well paid, equipped to care for the sick. That must always be what we're going to do. This isn't the way to do that, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u15	Mr. President. I believe under certain circumstances, the government can act in order to prevent a difficult situation that arises, but one must always be moderate, and one must be very careful. I can't help but agree with what. A senator that this law works the worse that it is considered. In this case, it seems to me that from the beginning the purpose of the government was to put the matter to this destination. Let us recall that when the dispute began with BHM, it was the highest. The secretary of finance was not even in the country, the chairman of a contract committee was in Myanmar, and the government's own agreement declared it publicly for the first time in his career that it did not mean bringing together meetings because the government had nothing to offer. I never remember it ever happening before. What is naturally unjust in this legal arrangement is the way it seems to be aimed at determining the conclusions of a procedure because of the very narrow limits of the procedure. Not allowing the court to take into account the results of contracts with classes that are comparable to those of a health profession and a university education, I feel very unfair. Then I'd like to ask. A senator is on the committee. In what way was the moderate care examined by the committee? Then I'm referring to the fact that I feel that of the 17 caste communities who are supposed to pass the law to be just five in a strike. It must be done that if the State gets into lawsuits, e.g. In the court of Human Rights, its case will be extremely weak. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree that in that respect it is the extremely weak laws that men plan here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u16	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with that, I think the case has always been intended for this process, unfortunately. This is best illustrated by the fact that there are many meetings, but there seems to be no sign of agreement. Of course, a judgment is given as we have considered. Why was it not just written into the laws, as mentioned: Based on agreements agreed on by the Scientific Association and the ASI? It's almost possible because it's only underneath it and nothing else. It's very unnatural that this is the way it is done. As far as average, we don't think it is, a long road from that. This may also be illustrated by the fact that after our discussion with the committee was completed this morning, the committee was taken up by direct bait. Obviously, it was never meant to listen, except for maybe from the Ministry, that was the thing. It was never intended to listen to what happened on the part of those who came to a meeting with the committee. I find that very sad. In fact, it shows me further that the purpose of the law is that people have basically given up, i.e. that the government has given up on the project. Instead of knowing that there must be some transfer, some money, the government decides: Let's take the easy way. They obviously do not find that difficult if they do not even listen to people who arrive at a committee meeting before an opinion is written.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u17	Mr. President. I'm still going to stick with what I think is technically lacking in this work. I was surprised to learn that more of the Committee, the management team, did not suggest that at least the law change and force them. The reasoning that we listened to yesterday and that the argument in the report is based on almost everyone's narrowing medical status. Then I wonder, if there's the opposite of this legality here to be carried out, how can it be justified to apply also twelve other unions of law? For example, it is in one place, and that is the only argument in the report that deals with something other than health professionals, that is, of veterinary surgeons and business workers, said to have such a negative impact on the disposition of property and business. Now it is clear that the Constitution should provide the same protection as for the union groups. Europe's Convention of Human Rights. In terms of economic activity, e.g. correspondent in Norway, where oil farm workers stopped oil production. At that time, the European Court of Human Rights, which concluded that even a major impact on economic activity, did not always justify baning employees, much less all of them, to apply the right to the right to strike. I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Was this examined by the Committee? I believe that if this case lands to foreign courts then, for example, will happen. on this technical basis, it will be concluded that moderate delinquency has not been maintained and that this law is illegal and may be contrary to a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u18	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with what. A senator with regard to illegality. Here you can see which companies are under. Then this was only observed at a meeting of the Committee regarding, e.g. a judgment on the sailors'strike and those who had not been on strike that it was judged illegal on the part of the State to set laws there. It must be the same thing now, not the law column has changed in this regard. I don't talk about any further being under unions that have not declared strikes or are in a strike, that they're taken of the court in this way. So I believe it's a matter of monopoly. This is one of the points presented at the meeting of the Committee this morning, and most of the section was presented to the court's court of justice in the official opinion of the Icelandic nurses. So I think the law will come about of being condemned in this matter. I don't really leave the comments that have made in these opinions that people don't decide to make changes in what is obvious. Similar judgments have been made. It's not even meant for it. It is believed that this is sufficient, though clearly stated that these 17 parties are in agreement, not on details, but on the individual aspects of the agreement. That was very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u19	V.E.G. President. Yes, that day is one of those sad days in the Council. I'm sorry, since I became a senator two years ago, there are many more days in this workplace than there are happy times. Actually, last week it was close to a happy day, but we managed to destroy it by shouting and calling out of the chair. It's a sad day because we're about to make a law, the Council is about to establish a law on unions that are fighting for their legal rights. It tells itself it's very serious. This is one of the most sacred rights any human has, to fight for his wages and to make his living more possible. I can't protect myself from thinking about it, when you wonder what the situation has been in society for the past two years, since the highest part of it. The government took over - she started with a great and good motto, at least in the Declaration of Policy, about improving the atmosphere in society, destroying political uncertainty, working on the people's well-being and happiness, and destroying suspicion, I don't know what was in this beautiful document. It's kind of an unremarkable document when you start to think about it. For example, the government has not been too busy trying to reconcile different viewpoints and try to create peace in the community, for threats to strikes have been maintained. Besides, I can't stay out of my head thinking about it, you know. Mr President, why are things like this? Does it have to be this way in this community? I believe the government now in power has a targeted income. I heard why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says in a radio interview last week - sized what may be all right - that they had dropped 40 billion since they took over. Now, I'm no special spokesman for a high tax rate, not necessarily, but when you wonder what the situation is in society, you may be able to justify it while developing society after a shocking collapse. Nurses and health professionals took on a tremendous amount of work, and because of failure, the health - care system was maintained under frightening circumstances. A good man once said - I've completely forgotten his name, there was some English politician - if the health system collapses in society, society collapses. It's just the foundation of society, good health. I can't protect myself from thinking about this. Why is this so? During the first year, for example, the government dropped income taxes on intermediate groups of about 5 billion. The billions would have been fine in the medical system, to build up and strengthen the health system. It has been observed here, in a speech with the Generals, that there has never been more money in the medical system, ever. That may well be true, but clearly that is not enough. Since then, in our interviews, it has also been shown that the present solution, to establish laws against these strikes, is no solution. This may only make the problem worse and bigger. If people begin to give up on a large scale and go away, how much does that cost the community? Has it worked out what it can cost a government fund if these people go through it all? I hope we don't, because we can't afford to lose these people, we just can't afford them at all. It has also been observed that there were 24 meetings, and nothing happens. What are people doing? It makes you think, too: Are these mere interviews? You're just holding people on for months and nothing's behind them, ain't you? It's incredibly presumptuous, I think. It was like this last year, when we were called out of June 18, in order to put laws on an Air Force. They had been out of contracts since New Year's Eve. You wonder: " Why can't one come to some conclusion, why can't it be done? ' It makes you think, "There's some reality going on here. It is so sad that this nation must exist in this nation, a nation of over 320 thousand people with so many resources. This production yields billions of profits, pays billions of dollars for money, brings out tourism, becomes the largest industry in the country, makes the profits of a billion, and the government has left behind. But imagine what the situation would be if the government hadn't reduced the tax and the penalty for those who have the best in the community. I'd like to repeat it, I'm not necessarily a spokesman for hair taxes. The wealth tax was temporary, it was true of the current government, but it could be extended entirely. We could have advanced him for years to build up society. We don't have much money, no matter what it is, transportation, docks, health care, nursing care. It's an amazing situation in a country with so many resources. Danes don't have any resources. Yet, our reward and welfare system is much better than ours. What have we been doing here for the last 30, 40, or 100 years? Who are we working here at the General? I used to wonder, who are we working here for? The concept of the greater good should always be in the foreground in all of the decisions we make here. And we're supposed to set priorities. The health system is one of the most important things in all communities. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, found that no matter where the population is placed, 91% of the nation wanted to put emphasis on the health system. But this was ignored, as was true of others. This government does not accept what people say. We can name the EU, which is probably one of the biggest frauds in the history of politics in Iceland. Why can't you check that out? Why should this not be considered? That could be one of the biggest domestic interests. I know there's a lot of people against it, but that could be the biggest interest cause in the country. We're always talking about the homes here. What about the home of nurses and public servants? Aren't they inside this equation, people in this equation? The next reference is to legalizing unions that have not even gone into a strike. It is in these human rights agreements and constitution that laws can be passed only if it threatens the greater good. The public good for readers if they have a strike, or a Symphony? These people are being corrected or banned from doing a strike. V.E.G. President. I find this sad because by means of this legal bill, it is in a very serious and burdensome way taken into the vast rights of many people, and the rights of much impairment, rights that are so important, so important, for people, that they are considered to be human rights in a legal sense and are protected accordingly. In view of this, there is very good reason to find fault with this planned legal procedure. Songs that severely impair people's rights should be complete emergency measures and should be supported by very important evidence and public interest. Such laws, too, need to be justified, to be highly selective, and in much harmony with standards that result from the moderate rule. Such laws must also be in full agreement with other important rules and viewpoints that are of great importance and significance in the legal realm. That is where the rule of equality is very important, very important. The legal bill discussed here is very difficult to measure up to all the important standards that governments in the courts are obliged to respect and take very seriously. To make it clear, the reasons that might justify a legal application to one group are not relevant to another at all. The public interest and rights of each group and community situation must be evaluated because of its failure. So, such a package solution as it seems to be, as is contained in these laws, is incredibly strange and highly questionable legal, so that no more is said, as has been said in speeches. Senators. There are a number of laws that must raise serious questions and, in effect, a big surprise. It says to make a photo, with the permission of a president: The rules of the Court shall be binding as a collective agreement between parties and validating the laws of these and validate the time required by the Court. Can it be impossible to have such a statement determine the time of its decisions without any restrictions in the law? Is it possible to give a court order to bind unions and their members and thus, in effect, deprive them of the legal rights of the decision made by the court? The bill also says, with the permission of a president: The Court shall decide on the pay of the members of the Member State. 1st par. and their other responsibilities reflect on the benefits of those who may be considered comparable in education, jobs, hours of work and responsibilities and, depending on events, collective contracts signed from May 2015 and general development of dress products in this country. V.E.G. President. How to meet the demands of equality and fairness in preventing the recent agreements made with doctors and teachers, i.e. groups of people about many things similar to those who are on a strike today in terms of employment rights and other relevant situations in this regard? Does not this very serious legal discrimination involve the very important rights and interests of those involved, and especially where the law takes from those in the partner unions, very important rights that are highly protected by law and international agreements? Doctors and teachers are public employees, such as those in the trade unions where the law code forbids the strike includes and therefore are comparable in this and in other ways. Therefore, the State intends that a court of agreements with doctors and high school teachers should not be considered in terms of highly important rights. Is it consistent? Now I don't know, I'm not a lawyer. In the bright future, this bill is bad and unfair, and we cannot support it. I really hope that the changes in the motions from my section will be accepted and accepted, and then there will be some relief for the bill. But we can't support this. As I say, this is a sad day, a sad day, as I said before. There are far too many of them here during the council, the sad days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson very much for his speech. There were many places where I would like to start by referring to the aviators, that the pilots of the General and Education Committee were also spoken of in the morning and mentioned that both laws were to be made on an aviation team and before the pilots were to go to the ceremony was agreed, so the legislation was moving on the agreements. I agree that these are very heavy steps and not a good day to have to set these laws, but unfortunately I think they are necessary according to the situation. I hope we can make this movement because it's perfectly clear according to Article 3. Section 3. The law says that people have time between August 15 and the end of a bargain contract before the execution of the sentence. We naturally hope that that time will be of great benefit to people and at least meet together on some point. It's also opened for it. Hv. A senator entered the income taxes and the tax reductions made, and so are tax reductions in the general market agreements. That's what I'm talking about. A senator against the taxes, or does he not feel that they benefit from nurses whom I think are considered to be intermediate classes? The average nurse's pay average 625 thousand, so the tax reductions mentioned should benefit them and be a certain part of the dresser, although that may not be part of the collective agreements. I want to ask you why. A senator's view of this is made known by him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u21	V.E.G. President. As opposed to taxes? It's tempting to say no, but I'm against them as the situation in society is today, because I think of taxes in the community as a covenant. What are taxes for? I view taxes as a covenant made by society to run a welfare community. If we don't tax people and businesses and we can't run this shit, that's just how it is, it's simple. For example, we see what conditions are like in California. Do we want to build such a community in Iceland, where we have to split up homeless people and people who have mental problems and live on the street? Is that the community we want to create here? No. It may be a bit dramatic for me, but it could be this way if we continue on this path. I can agree with that with what. A senator who agrees that there is a way to reduce taxes when there is much more good in the community. If we got out of our resources what we should get out of them, we could reduce our taxes. Like the energy resources, what do we get out of them? Now we're going to keep applying. And to foreign wealth rings that carry the money out of the country. What do we get out of it? If we were to gain money from the resources and other resources, we could reduce taxes, but now the situation is different, and society is in sore straits after a major collapse and, especially, the welfare system. Hv. A senator himself knows the situation in the community, it's very bad. All you have to do is drive north, and you're in grave danger of driving on the roads. I'm against tax reductions as they are stated today, although there's something to do with you. The loss of taxation at one time was negligible for each person, yet it was 5 billion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u22	A respectable president. The tax reductions that have been announced in general market agreements, if I have understood that calculation correctly, will be best considered by the group of people on a similar income to that of nurses. Hv. A senator spoke of the resources, that taxes could not be lowered until we began paying more of the resources of the country. I would like to ask myself, " Is this correct for me? Is the middle class of people in mind of why? ' A senator one of the resources that we have been living under the economic conditions we have been in? Should the tax continue to be so high in that class to collect the wealth while the resources cannot be downloaded? We're gonna go for a second. A senator was at a meeting a few days ago, where a community said that they were going to eliminate poverty and low wages by using electricity, energy - consuming industry, and I think I can agree with that. This must also be related to this discussion. It turned out, at the General and Education Committee this morning, that we started working after this Norwegian model last year, and that would likely be the basis for the stability we were living in today and the low inflation. However, they did not agree completely on when to start using this new way to maintain stability. Hv. A senator is talking about the plight of many. If we can't keep it stable, then it must be the worst thing for those with less hands. Am I right? If food prices and housing costs increase because we cannot maintain stability, it must be worst for those who have mentioned them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u23	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it could be that they don't like that class, I don't know. But what's the stability in Iceland? Who's it been for the past few years? I can't quite figure it out. Of course, we want stability, but we also want happy health professionals. These tax reductions may be helpful, but I think that raises are better. They are asking for correction on their pay so that they are in line with the salary of others and that their education will be evaluated for pay. Now, many have said that we're going to school too much here in Iceland, I don't agree with that. This conversation about taxes is a bit difficult, but I feel that, as I said in answer to what. A senator, that we should not lower taxes while the community situation is the way it is, while we have almost all basic services, because we have to somehow have money to run this community. And we may want to take a closer look at the tax laws, for there are a lot of people who get away with those who have enough money between their hands to pay no taxes and even get paid back from the state. It's well known. The middle class - yeah, it's a fortune, it's one of the most powerful resources we have, that's the human race, and we're on the way of destroying it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u24	With a lot of taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u25	With a lot of taxes? No, it's not like that. On the other hand, what we should get for our taxes can be debated. In communities such as Denmark, what do people get for the tax? We're supposed to build a good and powerful system, a tax system, and especially the resources. Then we can lower the taxes on the people of the land and run a good society. That's what it's all about. Somehow we have to run the community, and that's what we do with taxes. We don't do it any other way, everybody knows it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u26	President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. What I may be most concerned about in this bill is that there is really no time frame about how long this court decision should last. I wanted to ask the senator if he knows what it's been like, if it's been done before in Iceland. At least I don't remember it, but I don't know the story well enough to be able to for certain to predict how this uncertainty can be prevented. Is it possible to get more of the time frame on this so that it would be almost one year?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u27	V.E.G. President. I'll be happy to admit that I'm not really into the legal procedures that have been made, and a strike struggle, yes, I had a natural part in it in the past, a strike struggle, but I don't remember it. In 2004, teachers'agreements were made, but I think a court order has been granted freely with the duration. But a man thinks it's a little strange, this law, giving a sentence appointed by the Supreme Court -- now I'm not gonna say -- I trust it and I know the Supreme Court appoints evil and good men or good people in this enterprise, hopefully. But the same has been true in the discussion, as noted in the case of the two. paritaprevir This morning, the Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, that they were suggesting to bind the rights of strike even to four years, and then these people will not be allowed to strike or fight for their very serious reward. It was also shown by some members that it would never be like that, that it would never be tested, and this would never be the point of violating justice. We are naturally violating the right to make a law, but of course you trust it, because I know that this law will be passed here afterwards, that it will be fair. And, of course, I wanted our proposal to be accepted and taken one year. But that was also true of the day. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aardan before they have time to write to August 15, as he said, but can we trust that? I don't know, I'm not optimistic about it because they've held 24 meetings and nothing's happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u28	President. Yeah, I just think there's got to be some mistake in this bill not assuming some time frame. I'd like to ask the senator about something, because it's a little strange how it's put into my mind. If I was making a deal with someone, and the same guy decides to put laws on his contract prospects, a particular pressure - in this bill, there's actually a frame over what's to come out of it. There are all kinds of weird things in this, like not taking in some kind of stability, that someone can't be shaken. What stability? How should a procedure be able to measure this? And this is the big problem. That's what you're wondering. Now we have a very complex situation of choice. While we're talking right now, it's a recommendation to negotiate with other partners - well, they're talking about contracts that were negotiated for non-police union members. If we were to suggest a compromise so that it would be on January 1, it would put them at risk. So I think it's this close, nothing just about, I think it's kind of ugly, and I give it to these guys, BHM and Icelandic nurses' partner, very little room to make a deal. In case of a moment. A senator would be in this public market, having to negotiate under such circumstances, would he conclude that the deal was in such a way that he would have a chance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u29	Madam President. No, I don't think I have a chance with these talks. And that was natural in some cases. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister that they are waiting for results from the general market, the results of negotiations there. It also tells you that even making a fool out of people by having them in some business ventures that don't matter. It has come to pass before in a speech session and in talks held yesterday that the work community has already put the lines on collective agreements. There is talk of stability, an incredibly boring word, stability. I mean, there's always talk of that when it comes to making deals with especially those with the lowest salary, and now people in BHM and the Society of Nurses, I think there's 4% of the force in the country, and there's maybe just 2% in a strike, that if you get negotiated with these people, just like with the lowest paid people, then you'll all go upside down. It was made up with teachers and nursery teachers and others last year, and we know that another hundred billion were put into the system in the form of correction, and what happened? Did inflation really get out of control? No, she was at the lowest historically, had been that last year. But it's always the same decimal, that as soon as people start fighting for their rights and getting a better, decent salary, everything would just be here in the middle of nowhere. At the same time, as I mentioned earlier, the industry is simply purging gold. It's just that it hasn't been seen. No, it's always the same thing. There's plenty of money in Iceland. What needs to be done is change the cake correctly, that's just the way it is. She's not right. She's never been right. That is what we should focus on so that everyone can live a decent life in harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u30	A respectable president. I think that's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, in his final remarks here, said that the cake had to be divided correctly, is the very essence of the matter. You see, we have witnessed a policy of government that has aimed at relieving the load of the most experienced while others have been waiting for it. The result is war. We see around the world that there is a huge change in personality. While there is some evidence to suggest that there is a lower exchange of income during certain periods, there is no debate that the dissociation of possessions is huge and is always increasing. Under such circumstances, it is important what the State does and how we defend our tax dollars. I must say it just as it is that it was extremely difficult during the last term to be equal in a government that had to bridge 216 billion dollars. ... ofbundred. It was hard. It was reversed. It was a difficult decision to make. We tried to protect our health. Sadly, that was not entirely possible. Then, when the hole is closed, it is fundamental to start putting money there and building up, starting with the health system, starting with the social security system, starting with where we think our money is most important. But what did this government begin with? First, she relieved her taxes from those who are least in need. She started by lowering the hunting costs. It began by announcing to us that the wealth tax would not be extended. She told us that May 1st. to the next priority of the government would be to eliminate the electricity tax here. On the same day as it is being announced a ban on health-class and other groups within the BHM, a show is held in Valhalla, where the old dozens of tax reductions, which never seem to have anything to do with the Icelandic economy or have any negative effect on it, are back up and that show all of them. It's gonna start off in full gas. At the same time, those who are in a strike that is being imposed on a restraining order are told that if their votes are to be added to the fire and the bar. That doesn't make any sense. You're supposed to step out here, be honest, and say frankly that there's no political philosophy behind it, nothing else, because that's the fact. A respectable president. It is also true that there is no balance in conversation between parties when another has the authority to legalize the work done by the other person, the manager. This is especially true when, in this case, the person in the state has shown that he is not reluctant to apply that law to a strike. I'm concerned that what's supposed to be an emergency and is used as little as in recent years, is as cruel as this government does. It's a fourth time in two years that she's coming in here with a bill about putting the law on a silly fight. I must say, sir, a respectable president, that this is not how humans use an emergency. A disaster is because of circumstances beyond our control, but situations beyond our control are not situations that cannot be handled. The government's been showing the last few years that it can't negotiate, you can't negotiate. It's decided to tear to the emergency room. That is not why we should use it. I also find it odd, as mentioned earlier, that the emergency control of strikes and strike action that has not yet begun. It's like being on a train and tearing to the emergency control at the station before being put on. I don't understand. This is because men don't see how to negotiate. They've given up on negotiating. These are not contracts. A respectable president. We've been calling here for weeks and months to see that this discussion will be taken to the Hall of Congress. What have they told us? This is not going to be solved in the Generals' sales. It has been suggested that there is a great deal of control over the project, and we shouldn't be messing with the government, which has all this business in its power and can handle it well, and we shouldn't interfere with it here in the councils, there will be no release here. What are we doing here? Then they bring the law to the dispute. Then they're men to discuss this. Then they're willing to talk about a fight that's been going on for the third month. When the law is to be set, they are available in this, but discussing solutions, means discussing, discussing a possible deal -- no, that's impossible. Therefore I believe, like others here who have spoken, that men have never had these negotiations seriously. There are so many clues that point to that and confirm it. First, the fact that all the time during this dispute and we were discussing this in the Hall of Congress, we received the answers: We're waiting for the public market. Prime Minister said, "This will not be solved here. This will be resolved by local authorities. " He always pointed to the public market. The minister of finance did the same. What happens after the general market has reached its conclusion, which is actually not a vote for which the result has not been confirmed? What happens after they have reached their conclusions? It will take several days for the BHM and the nurses to be under ban. What does that tell us? The arrangement was never tested. It was never tested by men. A respectable president. I'm so sorry that we've come to this place. I am very sorry that men have decided to go this way instead of trying to make a success of their contract. I'm particularly sorry that this is part of a group of women, not only but in more parts, there are major groups under here, and that this should be done the weekend before we celebrate the 100th term of women's votes. This is how the government celebrates the 100th anniversary of women's vote, by the law of women's strike operations, which they didn't even try to negotiate with seriously. I also claim that this is not an emergency control in the case of this government, but it has become a pattern when men enter here for the fourth time in two years with such legislation. I don't remember any of that. It must go far back to find examples of the same frequency of legalization. Then it's a pattern, it's a process in contracts, not an emergency. For the bill itself, there went a why. paritaprevir It's a very good place for Gudley Hannesson to review it. I'm gonna let myself celebrate. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alices daughter, when interpreted 3. so that it could take into account their conditional development, e.g. If you read the first paragraph in this article, doctors and high school teachers. I'm surprised, though, that men wanted to be so rigid about keeping time in place on May 1. I don't quite understand. This does not quite agree, yet the word of the senators and particularly of the council members here in the hall weighed heavily when it comes to legal explanations. I'm going to kill them, because it's gonna stand and it's gonna be done, i.e. that these agreements are applicable to them too. It is heavy when such things are said here, and I'm going to hope and believe that the sentence will take it into account. I'm not going to go to any other factors here in detail. However, we make some comments to this bill. We're against that in the ground. We're against the law being passed here. Then we are against the kind of person we are approaching in a material way. So we suggest that this be dismissed. A respectable president. At the end, I'd like to say so here, too, that even if there is a law against these disputes, there is no solution to the issue itself. You are only putting a patch that does not hold even well, an evil patch on a wound that will open over and over again if you do not attack the root cause of the problem, since you need to put a considerable amount of money into your health system and make sure that our excellent health care providers are better than he is. Health care professionals need attention when they call for better equipment, when they need to hear better housing, and they need to listen to it when they ask for better benefits because they are international workers, who can work anywhere in the world, and who are sought for knowledge. It is important that we listen to it. V.E.G. The secretary of finance called out here yesterday: What about the patients? As far as I can tell, they have been given a good service in spite of a strike because these people don't care about them. And to say otherwise, I think it's very unfair. Then I'd also like to ask those who are going to accept this legal procedure here: What about the patients in the fall? What about the patients next year? What about the patients next year? What about the patients after five years of this procedure if they break off the system because people resign and decide to look elsewhere because they did not listen? It must be looked for longer than it is being done. This law, a respectable president, is in my opinion the wrong way to do so. I challenge the members of the board, which are here, to think only about the consequences, to listen to those who are being put on, and to wonder if they are not there to accompany us in the smaller part of rejecting these legislation and starting serious discussions about the terms of these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. For the second time, I want to make a decision here on this discussion, which is the basic condition mentioned in Leviticus. g., as indicated by the committee's section of the greater part, and I described in my speech when I delivered it, that we make decisions about social pay, according to Article 1. and other remunerations should take into account the qualifications of those comparable to that may be considered as education, employment, work hours, and responsibilities. The following article will consider some of the following. The greater understanding is made clear here on the third occasion in this discussion that this is the primary requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u32	A respectable president. Then I understand why. The senator and the majority, so it also includes negotiations between doctors and other public employees who have been negotiating in recent losses. How happy it must be that the majority of the committee should interpret it! It's important that we make it very clear here when we're taking care of this matter. Then I'd like to ask. In contrast, if the first requirement assumes that all agreements between other public employees and similar parties are in agreement, why were such superimposed to hold on to the date of May 1 in the condition? If I understand the senator correctly, then May 1 is a subset to the others and then I stress to find out why they put so much emphasis on May 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u33	V.E.G. President. It is sometimes with the ruse of speech in this hall that you don't understand how it comes about. I haven't met anyone who's putting too much emphasis on this point. Section 3. is as she stands. It's very clear. It contains the main conditions, and then it says, according to events, collective agreements signed since May 1st, 2015◯. This was shown in a discussion by the Committee that the last contract was made. It's all very clear. I don't know any super emphasis. This is very clear. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u34	A respectable president. Of course, I say superemphasis when people have not wanted to change something that has been suggested to be changed. We have made some adjustments to the Committee, and so much of the committee has been rejected. That's why I said that. If you refuse something, I view overemphasis as unchanged. I'm going to take the Commission's statement that everything is under here and that it's just a subsection, so it was of little importance in the big context and more important to the Commission to accept that everything is underneath, i.e. Official agreements made during recent losses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u35	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna talk for a long time here, but as I'm going to come back, there's the phrases that went right in this enormously important, the emphasis that came from the head. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir and the president of the General Commission, why. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Consley's Konráðsdóttir, and formerly from Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir on interpretation of the framework of the so - called formality. This is a fundamental point, and I stress that what is said about this discussion, especially by the chairman of the General Commission, which is explaining the understanding of the majority of the committee's activities, is of great importance. I said I would not talk for a long time, but I would like to say that the immorality of the supernovas created in this pitiable debate is due to the provision of a contract held by the employment organization into the common markets of the Common Society. Sad to say, they agreed on a code of red with other groups, but these members agreed on themselves. That's very reprehensible. It's the rush of immorality. Then it's the pathetic thread of this huge knot. It is found here at this level that is empty now, it is the minister's class, falling under the iron that was created there, agreeing that the lines should be laid off by this party, by the LIV who has within its ranks the newly appointed members, the owners of marine companies, billions of dollars for profit, and then proves to beads, mostly naked, and the poorest of the country's unions when it comes to the votes of others. Under their iron, this government lies, and that is a miserable destiny. Last night I came to appreciate the viewpoints that I wanted to guide in this disturbing dispute. Earlier, it had the highest. The secretary of finance is taking the lead in such matters. That guide, in fact, lies in its grave, but the inheritance is here, Margrét Thatcher's highest inheritance. The secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson was so hot a few days ago, she's here. There is an inheritance in this bill, in a approach to this matter, that is the legacy of Margrét Thatcher, who said in the 1970s when she rushed to bed in British politics, I lived in Britain, and I was a reporter in foreign news on the TV when she became prime minister of Britain, saying that her first work would have to be done on the payroll. She went to work. She made laws and tried to break the company of the hired people as best she could because everything that was called cooperation and cooperation was a thorn in her eye. However, as we know and recorded history can testify to them, it was especially the cooperation and cooperation among the employees and the union of the remuneration that brought us the success of the 20th century, the greatest phase of human history. It's a sad thing that Iceland's government in 2015 should follow in these footsteps, because that's what we're doing by trying to solve a debate between parties about remuneration by granting power, because this bill is a natural authority. It's an authority. I miss as much of the bill's report as I can into the song text, and that is the cost of the homes that have been involved in this struggle. Of course, we need to look to him when these matters are made up. The people took advantage of a legal democracies and had a strike that has lasted in the third month the seriousness of the problem. I thank you for the fight. I appreciate it. I'll just say one thing. Despite these laws, it must be ensured that the agreement and the great battle for the Icelandic health - care system will lead to these people. That's why I'm starting to look at the lyrics now, so I'm going to welcome the words of the Director of the Board of Directors, and I'm also celebrating the words of the Board of Directors. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir and I also look at the lyrics in the majority opinion that the decision to make a so - called statement should take into account a similar class, job responsibility, what is on the staff, education, and the expected cost of it. Then there is, in fact, not in the majority opinion, but in the Law text, there is a reference to the treaties with this evil law now in May, which should be looked to according to events. Now it is important to read this text. It has to. You must look very closely at how to read this text. Then I naturally ask, " Why don't we change the text and make it clearer in the way the government has to offer? ' Of course, it is logical to make changes in the lyrics of the Law in accordance with the understanding found in the majority of the World Committee and I'm celebrating. It would be reasonable to adjust the text to fit the understanding that we have heard in the law from the right time. Chairman of the General Committee. That's very important. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir said earlier because the sentence of taking up the job looks to her as a legal explanation, as a legal solution. It's very important to keep this up. V.E.G. President. Finally, the wisest of all is to retract this bill and to assign the Commission of the State to take up the words of the General Commission and negotiate with these groups according to the emphasis made there. That would be wise. That is what our proposals in the government stand out primarily.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u36	Madam President. Let's just think for a moment or the seat of the Minister who controls the policy of this government, the highest. Prime Ministers of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson and the highest. The secretary of the finance of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson. Let's try to sit in their chairs only. That may be an unpleasant thought, but we do not have to do it for more than a month. A month ago, May 11, or perhaps a few days later, they attended a government meeting after a letter received to the governor's health department from the surgeon general, one of three letters on the health system that the government has spent in the last few months in government meetings and discussed. The first letter tells the surgeon's office that the health - care system is beyond the limits for patients to be safe. Imagine you're sitting at a government meeting, sitting in the seats of the Ministers, controlling policy in this country. This is what you see. What? Okay, we went. What? A surgeon said that the health system is beyond the safety threshold for patients. Okay. The letter also states: The first part of the procedure must be completed, and the addition must be promptly provided so that safety of vulnerable patient groups is not compromised. The Commission is well aware, however, that measures ending in the event of a strike do not meet the problems of the medical system in the long term. If that is to happen, the government needs to make a clear declaration that negotiations will be continued in order to create continued health care. This is the message from the surgeon a month ago. We have a health emergency. And then the days go by. [[A senator knocks in a speaker's Putt.]] Are you counting? Two weeks. May 26th, it's one day in a nurse's strike. Then the government gets another letter. In this case, it's a health minister who receives the letter and brings it to a government meeting. I remind you that you continue to sit on the sweet minister of finance, the President of the Independence Party, and Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunoug's Benediktsson. That letter states: [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u37	President wants to ask why. A senator is to respect the rules in a speech chair, both in the handling of the matter, in Icelandic language, as well as in how it is handled. A senator uses address on other members of Parliament and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u38	That's right, because it's what's important. Thank you, Mr. President. Because this has been interrupted only, let's re-enact ourselves to the position of the highest minister who controls policy in the country. It is 15 days after you knew that there was a medical crisis and that the non-contracted plan was to stop a contracting strike, not a long-term solution. It's been two weeks since, and you know that a nursing staff strike starts tomorrow. You'll get another letter. It says, by permission of the president: The seriousness and urgency of doing all we can to ensure the safety of those in the health - care system are highlighted. The condition that can soon result in the loss of nurses can cause irreparable damage and damage to health care and to those who use a significant amount of service, both in the short term and in the long term. A surgeon's been telling you two weeks ago that it's not a long-term solution, it's no solution to the strike. If you're in this position, what's going to go through your heads? You know that there is room to negotiate bountifully so that health professionals can accept contracts. You know there's room for government funding. There's room in the state fund. And you also know that the country wants to establish its medical taxes, 90% of the population, regardless of category, economy, age, gender, ideality. Then you think: Wait, what did we say before the election? Well, maybe it doesn't matter, we promise you something again for the next election, it's not the main thing we promised for the last election. But at least what did our own party say? By permission of the President, the National Summaries Conclusion of Independence Party is quite clear to put tax first on the urgent and urgent tasks. The first thing is a secure health care. A surgeon has already said that there is a health - care crisis. It is an urgent and urgent assignment. It threatens the safety of the health system, which the Independence Party's National Meeting said should put in place by the taxpayers. But what if you're the highest? Prime Minister? This, by permission of the President, promised the Tenet Party: The main value of health care is that there is an improvement in the quality of the human resources and the quality of the health professions and thus reduces the elimination within the class. It is clear that there will be elimination within the class if not agreed, this will not solve the long-term problem and will be eliminated if law is passed without agreement with health care professionals. There's a crisis situation. It is still May 26, and the next day, nurses suffer, and more health care professionals suffer. There's a medical crisis. What's going through your mind? What do you think about where you should prioritize the taxpayers? Where should you be setting priorities? Seriously, what goes through your mind when you sit in these chairs? Come on, tickles. [[A senator knocks in a speaker's Putt.]] More days. It's June 4th. Nurses have had a strike a week. [[Up front.]] And a surgeon, probably scared and indeed sad, like most of us, sends back letters, now he's writing it to the whole government. He mentioned the same thing as in previous letters and tried to be clearer in words, perhaps the politicians do not hear, those who control policy in the country. He says: When it's not too bad to leave, the tragedy must be over immediately. The condition that has developed is intolerable and causes irreparable damage to a number of patients and damage to health care professionals, both in the short term and in the long term. Then, with the permission of a president, he says: ▪ It is now a responsibility to end this situation in one way or another. One way or another. One way, the way the government wants to go now, is to put a law on the strike, but a surgeon told me a month ago that there is no long - term solution. What's going to go through your heads? Try and put yourselves in this chair again. You're sitting there, you have this power, what goes through your heads knowing that you can go another way? You can prioritize the taxpayers'funds, as the taxpayers like, in a first-class health system. You can go to your election campaigns, you can do the government contracts, you can do what your own party says in the national conventions of paying taxes, you can reach contracts. The only thing it does is that it costs, maybe 4 billion, it costs something, but there's room for it, and everyone wants it. Everyone but you. And you're in charge. There's two years in the election, and the health system's still first-rate, you know that? Or that was, at least, last year according to the standards that the surgeon pointed out to me that he was using. According to the 2013 report, everyone thought that in the wake of the economic crisis, the health system in Iceland would go down, but it wasn't. This did not happen. Despite the collapse, the medical system did not go down. All ◯idicators, with the permission of the president, or standards, were green, which means a first-class health system, all green after the collapse. It's two years to the election. If these standards have gone down, it will cost this government very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u39	Madam President. I can't support this breakthrough, which is to be asked below because I believe the government has a large share in the responsibility of the existing position. Also, I can't support this bill in the later vote because I don't recall ever being tied to an end to a work dispute in such a profligate way as shown in this bill. I've never seen a bill in my 25-year career here, since it's assumed that this is the only way to cut a knife's taste of quarreling, an appointed statement in which one of the party is not to be represented. I never recall writing into a bill like this about the outcome. At least I thought it was perfectly clear from a sermon. Minister at the beginning of yesterday's discussion that no bargain contracts should be taken into account except those made after May 1. How important that is! Normal comparisons of classes with previous losses have resulted in significant increases in contracts, which can be said to be comparable classes. It is unfair if a crime is to be taken into consideration. Therefore, it is so important that in this discussion the opposition has made it possible to draw that understanding. The government's members own the law that this is not a core objective, that other criteria appear in Article 3. which should be more important and more important. That's important because I think that if it's going to happen, it's important. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konásdotsdótttir, director of the committee's opinion, has emphasized here the likelihood that the result would be more reasonable. It's positive, but it's also the only positive thing that's come out of these discussions. When people wonder why we have come to this place, they have to start at the beginning. Because it's the highest. A health minister in the hall cannot help but argue that one of the first steps of this government under its leadership was making a deal with expert physicians. I've claimed that this deal was 23% and if it was the highest. A minister is a different opinion, and he provides evidence to confirm this. Similarly, a high school teacher contract was made up of considerably more pay raise than those seen in contracts of a general labour market. What may be of major concern, perhaps the highest concern when we consider the medical situation, are the contracts made with doctors. How great were they? It's the highest. A health minister willing to give us a point and a point to show how much increases were involved? There were quite a few. I guess they were 30% plus? Thus it is absolutely clear that this is what has been the driving force in the general labour market requirements as well as in BHM and nurses. [[Up front.]] The justice, then, that is, to establish a law on a procedure that is not to be taken into account is, of course, no justice. It is nothing but a cry of injustice. If a person is going to use a legal system to bring an end to a strike, he must be very careful. Then there is a moderate standard. I'm asking why. Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir Whether this uses an averagely adequate exercise. I refer to the Constitution as a protection to the freedom of the contract. Of course, there is clear evidence that the right to strike is part of the freedom of the contract. 1.mg. 74. g. The constitution will be the freedom of the contract and the right to strike. It has been stated in repeated reviews that the protection of that law is not less than the protection contained in the European Convention of Human Rights. It is clear, for example, that with whom a strike can be banned and who may not be. In any case, judgment has been made clear. According to 2 mg. 1 1. This covenant is permitted to rule by law bans of those who are supposed to observe order and law, and officials there say, but it is also more clearly, those who are supposed to be represented by some kind of authority. The decisions that have been committed clearly show that in the case of government employees, there is very limited authority to ban the strikes of all civil servants. To do so requires very clear reasoning. This needs to be absolutely clear that it is done, for example, to destroy chaos and defend the rights of others. It may be the basis for a lawsuit. The members of the government and the reasons they offer for defending this against certain unions. But there are only five of those 17 that the law should include in a strike. How, then, can it be said that there are international commitments, the constitution, or what we call a moderate rate that other groups of laws are also being passed? I'm afraid, Madam President, if this case ever strikes the shores of foreign courts, there will be very few defenses in the United States. That's why I say I don't think there's enough room for the government's defense to be secure in the event of a lawsuit. I'm asking why. prominent members of the Committee: Were they examined to see if moderate behavior was sufficiently abundant? Just to illustrate what this is, I ask, "Why is it that, with reference to the surgeon's status of the medical system, you put laws on the actor's work issues and the Symphony employees? " This doesn't really rhyme with me. I use this example to show how pierced and leaked these legislation is. Madam President. The most basic argument. A minister who handles the case uses both the bill and the bill yesterday's speech to refer to the surgeon general's memo. It highlights the serious consequences of the struggle, and surgeons say very clearly. He thinks it's absolutely necessary to end this argument in a short time. He says to the government that it must take action. It is somewhat interesting that the report refers to this memo, and then it says, on page 5. 5 reminds me that at the end of the report, the following appear, and it is handled by a surgeon. It's so interesting that when you read the memo to the end, you'll see the top. The government has missed the completion of a land surgeon's memo. It makes clear that if the work debate is to be completed by law, however, it needs to be made clear that when the Law has taken place, negotiations will need to be continued in order to create lasting peace within the health system. At the end of this discussion, I find it minimal that the government will also follow these recommendations, almost orders, by a surgeon, to continue the discussion in order to achieve its continued peace within the medical system. A surgeon in the media has made it very clear that he counts, just as the highest. At the end of the medical debate, a health minister said that the market law may make sure that the presence of the species in which the medical system is operating now will be absorbed by other nations, other countries, who pay much higher wages. This was the principal reason to complete the medical strike in the way it was then done. Why should not the same reasoning apply also to other health groups? My question to why. Konráðsdóttir At the end of my talk, my Brá Brárdddóttir is: Has the committee about this driven and obtained assurances from the highest degree? Healthcare Minister that if the case is completed below by legislation, will continued consultations in an effort to create what a surgeon calls ongoing peace within the medical system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u40	V.E.G. President. It is just one of the basic elements of the bill that we can still negotiate. The meeting of the Committee this morning made it very clear that there is the possibility of continuing to try, making it absolutely clear. Hv. A senator came into the order of the making of judgment, and that it was one of three men appointed, that the Supreme Court ordered all three members. That's not unique. That was the case with law No. 34/2001, which was put in the fish markets and others, as well as in the law of No. 17/2004, at a basic school teacher. At the meeting this morning, it was also noted that there was no request for a change in the terms of BHM that they did not want such a procedure to be made. Hv. A senator speaks of the strangest thing to say is to put laws on classes that do not have a strike. The classes that are listed here are in agreement, have chosen to have a common requirement, a collective agreement board, and all have either announced a strike or had some kind of strike action. In this regard, it is proper to note that in 2010, when needed, the year 2010. A member of the U.S. government was adopted by a member of the General Assembly to perform an aerospace strike, aviators were not in a strike. Hv. Senator Össur Skarphéðinsson, then the highest. Minister if I'm right, just voted with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u41	Mr. President. I'd love to. paritaprevir Brá Consley's beloved Konráðsdóttir would explain to me what chaos and economic unrest it will cause in the community if, for example, the two groups I mentioned earlier were to strike. I'm not quite sure that there's some kind of resistance to the fact that we can maintain a universal rule in society. I don't think so. What matters to me, though, is whether the committee responsible for this case has somehow obtained guarantees that the recommendations made by the surgeon will be made so strongly expressed in the bottom of their memo to the government. A surgeon understands this well and fears that when such a plant brings an end to a strike, an extremely large number of people in the profession or in the trade union may feel like a cold sailor in the face. We've heard that and we've heard that. A senator, like me, received many letters from those at the other end of this matter of intentioning to quit. A surgeon is afraid of avatar escape. That's what I'm afraid of, too. That's why I'm asking, "Have a why." A member of the Commission, on behalf of the Committee, receives assurances from the Supreme Court. Health Minister that if the strike is completed without a contract solving the problem it causes, as stated in the surgeon's memo, will it be certain that treaties will continue to create peace of mind? That's what I'm afraid of, given how much. A health minister has been on the run because of the problems caused by health care professionals under his direction that there is no clear evidence in this subject. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. A health minister didn't make a clear guess here yesterday when he was asked about the same question. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u42	V.E.G. President. Of course, when you weigh the need to legalize as such, you need to look at all the interests involved. True, we are concerned about this and have heard of man's plans and concerns that there will be flights. However, we should not overlook the fact that we also need to focus on the interests of others, the interests of patients. That is one of the things the surgeon has so clearly called attention to and demanded that action be taken by some means, as we are doing here today. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] This is simply the case. [[Up front.]] The insurance, however, is not in the way. We've had a word with a minister in this room. Sadly, it is not a specialist problem that human positions are difficult. When you meet members of other nations, that seems to be a problem in many parts of Europe. That's what we need to talk about here. You're right about what you're doing. A senator to maintain that order. Let us discuss this next. However, after receiving visitors, the Commission's assessments include: A surgeon, to our meeting that it is necessary, unfortunately, to take these measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u43	Mr. President. I thank the Chairman of the Committee for a very grammatical answer. I asked her if there was some guarantee that she could be the highest. A health minister would remember, if necessary, without negotiations, make sure that there would be continued consultations in order to try to ensure lasting peace within the classes. The answer was no. That's a good thing. Senator. I would have chosen to. A senator could have given me a positive answer. It would have been a little security, more security, if it were entirely preconceived that it was the determined will of the Minister to try to contribute to what the surgeon calls persistent peace. I'm not sure that's possible. The situation is simply a disturbance in these unions. They feel that they have been given a long nose. Of course, they look for other groups that are apparently stronger within the medical system to have developed elevations that are considerably higher than those that seem to have been in a general labour market. I don't find anything unusual about those classes, which are absolutely as important as doctors to keep the system working on rotation, such increases. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. The worst part about this is, of course, how little the government has stretched out. Somehow it has been realized, sort of, from the beginning that the government has not intended to negotiate beyond what it has already finished in advance. It's practically written into this bill, though statements are made. The chairman of this discussion has softened it somewhat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u44	Mr. President. I want to come up here to thank you. A senator's opinion of the government was made this by a surgeon. A surgeon has been very concerned and has suggested that there is a health - care crisis for a month, and this data and the national surgeon's letter to the government have further clarified the fact that the government does not prioritize in a first-class health system. I wanted to come up to say thank you. A senator in particular for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u45	Mr. President. Of course, it's striking when you read the bill as the highest. Agricultural minister is transported by other ministers, including the highest. Prime Minister, did not try to transport it, for it does not fully describe what is stated in the surgeon's memoir. It says that at the end of it, it will appear in the form of a very graphic picture of the situation, as a surgeon sees it within the medical system. But that's as far as they go. They do not report in the report that the final key to the surgeon's description was that although laws may soon solve the problem, they do not do so in the long run. Sadly, at the very end of the discussion, it has not yet been fulfilled what surgeons say must be done. that there is a clear statement that, however, a person is going back to this process of conversation in order to ensure peace within the system. That's important. The government does not hold that threat. And what? paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttir, chairman of the General Commission, was not trying to talk himself out of it. When I asked her, she said: "No. Meanwhile, the highest. A health minister stuck his nose in the back of the guard here in the room. He is lacking in unreceptive statements. He's a professional minister. I've said that before. Minister has quite a bit of power. How pleasant and more pleasant it would have been to see the power exerted on this matter, the man who could make those explicit statements. [[The president calls.]] Then maybe we'd all have less stings in the mouth after that breakthrough, but we'll be in when we walk home tonight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u46	Mr. President. I'd like to say in my speech that I'm deeply concerned that this bill will be a law as much as the rest of the Council intends to suggest. I'm worried about it in two ways. I'm concerned about the professions now scheduled to make laws. This is the Constitutionary agreement, which is also confirmed in the European Convention of Human Rights and is to be as holy as possible in our community. This is the fourth time we've had it. Parliaments during this season will discuss legalization of individual groups. Happily, by the 21st century, laws had become very rare. Now that the economic situation is in such a way that a person proclaims a better time, it is really infinitely sad that we are a fourth time in legalization and that the third law of strike action will be realized during this ideal period. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer and Jón Þór Ólafsson, who discussed long - term consequences. I pointed out in my speech yesterday that we were looking for a lack of health care professionals regardless of the procedure. We watch in the face that 900 nurses can start taking a pension in the near future, but only 450 graduates at the same time. We see the lack of staff, and the danger is that, as shown in a number of letters to us. Sadly, members of Congress that I have failed to answer may choose a field of service elsewhere. There is a serious need to be concerned about where we are headed in this matter, as indicated by a surgeon. The members of the council I mentioned quoted will perform operations that end a strike, without the reach of contracts, do not solve the problems of the health system in the long run. They will not solve the problem for the longer time. I hope so. The members of the greater part who intend to approve the bill realize that this will solve no longer and may even add to the problem. I have no doubt about it. It's my opinion that this will add to the problem. I also have to say that I'm concerned about this in a broader context because, as I said yesterday, we don't change the collective agreements in one blow. The need to revise the framework of conversation, to review how people talk to each other, to reevaluate the role of a Kingdom Hall. I'll say yes, I'm ready to take that discussion. I'm ready to discuss how to get ahead with it, but this discussion needs to be given mutual respect and understanding of the position of different people, and I don't think there are any ways to make it payable. We talked about the future earlier today, the presidents and spokesmen at the National Hall, we were supposed to talk about the future and Iceland 2030. I said there, and I'd like to say here that I think even up ahead are even more ideological conflicts than we've seen in a long time, a labour struggle, a conflict about how we're changing the quality. In recent years and decades, we watch a society where wealth has grown into fewer hands. Iceland is not an isolated example of that. Although income distribution has become more equal after crash, not only because of external causes but also because of an attack on the tax system, I believe that the actions under which the current government has both attacked and proclaimed are not designed to increase the level of income. I believe we are in that situation where we see the growing conflict on exactly this, about the discrepancies. We've been going through seven thin years, where most classes somehow failed. It wasn't easy for anyone. I hope now we start looking forward to better times. Then the conflict is about how we're going to change the quality, how we're going to change the interest. Will we divide him in a just and fair way? Are we going to build that growth on sustainability? Will We Look Ahead? As we look ahead, what vision will we have? I'm afraid that if this is the attitude of the greater part of the council towards the gerbils, so there has been repeated legalizations, one-sided legislation in this case of government employees, it is not likely to add to the agreement in this community. This is not likely to make any sense as to how we share these benefits. We can make sure that this has recently been announced a tax deportation rate of 15◯17 billion, which will be introduced into collective labour agreements, at the same time as the unions of a conflict demand that the infrastructure operation be strengthened. It has often been mentioned by health care, but other unions listed here are also part of the infrastructure. We look ahead to a road in which we plan to reduce our share, to reduce taxes, to increase private business, and to play a hard ball with the labor movement in the country. Mr. President. This can't be good luck. We've had the experience with all of these measures. I referred to this in my speech yesterday and plan to finish my speech today because it has been examined and examined the consequences of such a policy of government that we call "freeness of speech " in Britain during the 1980's. Not only did it increase in balance, not just unemployment, but it also resulted in less social prosperity and growth. Hv. The members of the greater part could wonder, because all of these are bites at once, and the same puzzle, whether they really believe that this is the way they want to take Icelandic society, groups that have even taught themselves to be socialists at some point in their political lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u47	V.E.G. President. Here is the government situation with three suggestions, deduction and two adjustments. I would like these suggestions to be called to 3rd. ... andwe 'lltakeoffs in due time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u48	Mr. President. In the left movement, a green supply will break the government's decision to add a fourth time to legalize the labor of paymen. This is the Constitution's right to fight for its purchase and benefits and to take on a massive intervention in the labour struggle. This must raise questions about the priorities of this government, which further announces tax reductions on the same day that it proposes legalization of the work done by the employees of the state. In the left movement, a green bid violates this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u49	V.E.G. President. In the bright future, we are opposed to this bill because we feel that it is unfair, ill - prepared, and unworked. The freedom of the agreement and the right to strike are very important rights that governments in a legal state strive to respect highly in word and deed. This bill is in accordance with their obligations. It is here to minimize the great human rights of many people with some strange package payment. Not enough, here is a serious form of discrimination. All of this is done, driven by harshness, and without any attempt to reach a reasonable conclusion by conversation and consultation with people of good faith. This government is still showing that consultation does not exist in its dictionary. Her method is once to divide and dominate. A bright future thinks it's a bad legal bill, as it turned out, and unfairly and votes against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u50	Mr. President. A surgeon has been sending a letter to this government for a month, saying that there is a health - care crisis and that it is the responsibility of the government to solve this problem in one way or another. The second way is natural, it is possible to negotiate for healthcare professionals and for the country's top health care systems. It is priorities that the people prefer regardless of categories, gender, age, and residence, that is what the Independence Party feels about. That's what the forward squad promised for elections, but that's not what this government's going to do. And she's in charge. Our health system is still in progress, or it was last year's first rate. In the preceding year, in particular, a report published by the surgeon, Iceland had a unique role in having all green components in its service. It says that Sweden and Norway fell from this list. Look, it's a first-class health system that's been through the crisis. [[The president calls.]] It's two years to the election. Let us see how this will look in their lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u51	V.E.G. President. In the evening news of RUSA yesterday, the prime minister said that there had not been a legalization of a medical strike, for then there had not been a similar crisis. Of course, a normal response to this fact would be a serious agreement with radiologists, biologists, nurses, and midwives who reflected the importance of these classes. What, though, does the forwarding party and the Independence Party do? They lay laws on women's classes in the health system. This law is strongly opposed by the union and is regarded by a lack of respect for health care, the most important support in society. This law is greeting the government to women when we celebrate the 100th term. The speeches will move the 19th of June to the best of the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u52	Mr. President. The right to strike is important, and it is respected by this government. [[Foreground on:]] [[The point is: Well, that's what it is.]] He's respected. In turn, he has a public interest level. In the case we are here, the government has come up with a situation where the government is not going to avoid defending the public interest shown in the development of thousands of tests of the health system, that people who under normal circumstances can get results of cancer research within a few days have to wait for four to five weeks and that many of the management system is growing into uncontrolled problems that simply need to be handled. Those who come up here and have nothing else to offer, but that the state should agree to all the demands made on our contracts are people who really have nothing to say in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Up front.]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Foreground on: No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u53	Hv. As the president has stated many times, a senator, the debate is over and takes up the public speaking program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-129.u54	President. It's not a law, so I say no.
