ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u1	Hv. All council members. After the events in Paris last Friday, we are all heartbroken, with 129 innocent civilians killed and hundreds injured, some very serious. Our minds are in the hands of all the people who are now in pain to tie up these shocking attacks. The terrorist activities in Paris were attacks on innocent people, but they also agree with the Western values of humanity, liberality, and tolerance that are the cornerstones of our society. That concept can never succeed. This morning, I sent a letter on behalf of the General Generals with sympathy to Claudes Bartolones, president of the French Parliament's Office of Lionels Tardys, president of the Congress of the French Congress, and Gérard Tardy, president of the French Association and Iceland of the French Parliament. The letters are as follows: I would like, on behalf of the Allied Congress, the National Assembly of the Icelanders, to witnesses to the French people, and to the victims of the horrors in Paris last Friday, my sympathy. The attack was fundamental to the basic rights on which we base our democracies, and I condemn the perpetrators and the ideologies that are involved. My mind and the entire body of Congress are with those who are in pain as a result of the attack. I would like to assume that there is an agreement between members of the council talking about these events, the terrorist activity in Paris, held at the General Assembly tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u2	Borist has a letter from the 3rd. We're out of Suðvest. "Rangnhök Ríkharðsdóttir, "that she can't attend a meeting next time. So today, the World Council 1 is a member of the Independence Party list in the District, Óli Björn Kárason. Óli Björn Kárason has once sat at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. There's been a letter received from the Council of Porta's chairman about this. Tenth. Smoke. n., the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, can't attend a meeting at the next meeting. So today he's taking his place at Arms 1 of Pirata's district Halldóra Mogensen. Halldóra Mogensen has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome to work. Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party to the 13th. We're out of Suðvest. "Elín Hirst, can't attend in the near future. So today, at the Second Council, a deputy of the Independence Party is seated in the district, Karen Halldórsdóttir Halldordddótttir. 1 strategist to the district's list will also be at the General Assembly today. Karen Halldórsdóttir letter has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly, so she has to sign her pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u3	Karen Elísabet Halldórsdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u4	Consider: Prime Minister, financial and economic minister, health minister, marine and agricultural minister, environmental and resource minister and Minister of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u5	A respectable president. Last Friday, the attacks in Paris were a major cause of grief for all of us. I agree with the U.S. President that, of course, our minds are in the French nation and those who are to be bound to this tragic situation. This was an attack on the baselines established by the French Revolution for freedom, equality, and brotherhood. It is important to remind us that this act of violence has nothing to do with religion or nationality. They are based on an incomprehensible and disgusting ideologies that pose a threat to tolerance and free society. Our answer must be the same as Jens Stoltenberg's response to the disaster in Outey and Oslo, to face the threat by furthering our open, free society, and human beings without being naked to the danger we are facing. It is of great importance how governments react in such times, since it is easy to fantasize about isolation and prejudice here and abroad. I'd especially like to commend the highest. On this occasion, the Minister of Ministers for the proclamations she has made since Friday. It is important that the government's pronouncements be, not on harts or fables, but on facts and balanced interpretations. It has, for example. There is no evidence to support the claim that Europe's open border is the cause of these attacks, nothing. If there is an increased need for law enforcement, let us respond to it, not creating it on the basis of distorted facts. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether she is not sharing this opinion with me and that it is important that we be careful about drawing conclusions until all the facts are available regarding the investigation of these disasters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u6	V.E.G. President. It is safe to say that we were all shocked by the events we witnessed on Friday, and no doubt they are in the minds of all of us in the West and throughout the world, we think to France at this moment. I think it's very important to be careful when it happens to what the attacks are all about. They, of course, focus on our baseline values, on what we base our community on, for we are free of these practices in our country to practice the beliefs and the things we prefer. Of course, the first answer to such violence, when it comes to entering our ranks by making such an attack, is to feed on fear. You can't do that. It must be our task to raise the flag of freedom higher in such events and to speak to it in every land where we come, both in this country and especially in a global field. Of course, we will review, as is done here, the consequences of such attacks, the danger of further attacks and such things. All of this will be revealed as time goes on. We have said in Iceland that there is no evidence that we need to fear our advantage here in this situation. Of course, we'll be watching what our fellow workers are doing. I think it's very important when this happens that we watch it very closely and stick together and respond in a common way. It's the only way to approach such a threat that those who share our views are united against the threat facing us. I don't think there's any reason to draw any further conclusions at this point, but of course we have to be careful what steps we take thereafter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u7	A respectable president. Thank you to the highest. In fact, the minister of the congregation and its members agree that we need to determine the next action we will take. There is one thing that seems to mark the background of terrorists so far. These are small boys of Muslim background who have grown up in the same country but who experience extreme social weakness, do not find themselves at school or at work, and spend the whole day on the computer. It is shocking that the background of those who have fallen into terrible massacres in the United States is similar. This problem, social isolation, that young boys find themselves out in society, will not be solved by police arms or by law enforcement on a border or by speaking against people of a certain race. He will be released by social action, by opening school, by increasing the opportunity for young people and by breaking down this social isolation. [[The president calls.]] That should be our objective first and last reaction to these tragic events. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u8	A respectable president. As soon as we talk about the importance of our freedom, we also need to be careful that certain things are needed in order to do so. There is no doubt that they are important to local law enforcement. We must always realize that good law enforcement is a factor in our being free to live in a land. It is an unbreakable part of our having such freedom within us. Thus, it is very important in these circumstances not to belittle the important work that the police are doing at any given time in each country, whether to their own citizens or to be safe in a larger context. One of the projects that the Schengen countries are facing right now, when the tide of refugees has been so great, and they have not been able to keep enough tight about are registrations on the outer border. It is the problem humans want to solve, and it is very important that we combine to solve it. This is the biggest challenge we face in the field of Schengen. It is so important that it succeeds in order to maintain the Schengen order of order for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on the status of the Constitution case. I've been a member of the Board of Directors as the Supreme Director. The prime minister appointed, and she has held about 40 meetings, and she has recently found that each meeting would be the last. That is true of several last meetings. The meeting to be held was delayed because it was during the day that the directors of the administrations asked for a meeting with the officers of all classes to discuss the outworking of the case. That letter was written about ten days ago. A week ago, I sent a letter to the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The minister of finance, president of the Independence Party, realized that the committee was on the final meters. It would be very important for the committee to receive a clear commission to complete its assignment, and if such a meeting should be held, we would know where this case should end. Since then, I have heard from the vice president of the Independence Party, and I know that there have been some discussions, but there has been no president's meeting, and no meeting has been announced in the Constitution committee. Mr. President. In view of some final meeting, I ask, what exactly is this matter to go to? V.E.G. The prime minister has repeatedly wanted to see changes in his affairs and to support the process in progress. I don't really understand what's taking so long. I have to say, if the plan is to end this case so that it can be completed a matter of Congress, even if it were only for this council, then the time has really gotten cut off if we're going to get a national vote together with the election in June which means we're going to have to complete a discussion on the subject by the year. Then we need a very clear answer to that question from the highest point of view. First of all, whether the committee has clear authority to complete its work within the next few days, since there is almost nothing left to allow the committee to complete its work, and whether the date of the National Remuneration is something to the highest degree. The prime minister considers these matters important. [[The president calls.]] When's the best time to go. The prime minister realizes that the committee he ordered to complete a job or that of his phase, which is merely a matter of four things? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u10	A respectable president. It sounds to me like it's just different to the assessment of where this job works. A panel of candidates got a presentation on the job position earlier today, and things have been going well, but I still can't figure it out. In any case, it is time for political leaders to meet to discuss this matter, for it is not good for the committee to turn it into some void, some uncertainty. We need to understand what next will be. My Ministry is trying to arrange a meeting of the heads of the clans. I understand the call was out today, I hope so, it was assumed. In any case, I see no other than that we must gather such meetings in the days ahead, but ministers and the heads of other classes have not all been at the same point for a few days. It seems to me that most or all of us are here, so hopefully we'll get together, e.g. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u11	Mr. President. Actually, I've not been invited to any premonition. I suspect it's gonna be pretty hard to get the officers together this week if I know their schedule right, as if it was hard last week and as if it's often pretty hard. We have now served in this committee as representatives of the classes we belong to. It has been my belief and conviction that all members of the Committee have a clear commission on the Committee's projects and that all members of the council have been kept informed throughout the process, throughout the 40 meetings, on the state of the situation. I can at least quote that this is at least the case. In my case. My body has been informed of every step of this work. I trust that, of course, it was the same with other members of the council in this important matter that all of us should prioritize when we consider it. I reiterate that the committee needs a clear commission. I don't know if there's any reason for the committee to wait for the heads of the clans. First and foremost, representatives of the classes of the Committee must be given a very clear commission to complete the case. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to reiterate the question I brought here to the highest level. A minister of the date of the Constitution and of whether he or she has any particular opinion of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u12	A respectable president. There has been no change in the authority of the people on this committee. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir, chairman of the left movement, sits on the committee as she mentioned earlier, and therefore has all the information on the course of events there from one meeting to the next, more information than I have even. As regards the representatives of other classes, I do not know that any change was made in their commission. In terms of a date for national law, there must be something that people want to agree on as well. We must find out together when we discuss the next steps in this work when it is best to have such a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u13	President. I saw this morning's report with the headline of Davíð: Councilmen are afraid to say their thoughts because of the fear of political dogma. This is from an interview at the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u14	It's always been like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u15	What I specifically cut in this interview with the highest. On the morning radio, the prime minister announced to the prime minister. He said, with President's permission: ▪ For example, when this great stream reaches Europe, thousands, even tens of thousands of times a day, it actually tells itself that it can hide dangerous people there. As you've seen now. But people have not wanted to say this because of how they might be interpreted. That was what Sigmundur said, but he meant that his distasteful colleagues, the prime ministers, the common people. Despite the obvious fact that such criminal organizations will, of course, take advantage of the opportunity when Europe's borders are open, the general public does not believe that these refugees are criminals. People can tell the difference between themselves. But still, there is this shyness to discuss it, and now it is clear that this organization has used this opportunity, using the forces of these people to smuggle into Europe. I'd like to, in view of this statement, the highest. Prime Minister to ask where he has been informed that this is the case, whether he feels that they are not even a little dangerous in view of the debate that is going on in many extremes in the other direction, who take advantage of the opportunity to develop some form of suspicion toward the Syrians, whether this is not oil on that fire, and whether it is the highest. Prime Minister should not only be careful how he decides to express himself before being aware of the fact that some refugees have actually smuggled across a European border in the way that Prime Ministers believe to have happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u16	A respectable president. This has already been observed in the security services of various countries, including the U.S. In neighboring countries, an organization such as ISIS has benefited from the plight of people who flock to Europe as refugees and other populations to smuggle their people there. [[Up front.]] At the same time, it can be evident that when such an organization has declared itself to be in such a situation, it must be taken seriously that it has been made necessary. Discussing it is less than just a matter of suspicion. Like what? A senator here read words by word of mouth I think it is true that the public may be able to distinguish them, and that the public does not have the idea that refugees are generally criminals or terrorists, even though people are pointing to the obvious fact that criminals abuse the situation of these people. The fact that there are people so bad that they are ready to kill men at random, to shoot one another's heads, to blow themselves and others up, while no one is ready to go so far as to pretend to be something other than he is. It just doesn't make sense. All of them see that those who are evil are also ready to take advantage of the plight of refugees and are themselves responsible for the fact that many of these refugees are on their way, and they follow them the same way. A respectable president. I think if we want to hold on to extreme movements in Iceland or elsewhere, the best way to talk about things the way they really are is, otherwise we're creating a risk of people looking for extreme movements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u17	President. It is very important to bear in mind that the first news of what is going on in connection with the terrible things happening in Paris is very wandering and that the news, such as the news about the false Syrian passport, is unreceptive. I think it's a very serious responsibility that we're not throwing something out here without confirming it's been established by the competent authorities. Already there are reports that Syriac refugees have been rejected land visas in many parts of the United States. I think it's very important that we take care of how we talk about these matters because we must not harbor the fear of certain ethnic offenses, especially against people who have suffered each day as they did one day in Paris.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u18	A respectable president. I just reiterate what I said before. I think it's safe for us to trust people, trust the public more than what we need. A senator seems to be doing. [[Up front.]] People cannot think of it, and even though it is obvious that criminals are using it when more than a million people flock to the continent within a few months, very few think that these include refugees as common criminals or terrorists. Those who think so - well, we must unite that such a misunderstanding must be corrected. What is the best way to correct such wrongs and such misunderstandings? It's talking about things, not trying to shut them down like the rest. A senator seems to suggest here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to start off on behalf of my council to thank the president for his words at the beginning of a meeting and agree with them. In the same way, I'm going to return to the assignments that await us. I just want to shed light on the double - skined ones I experience in the government's efforts to solve the urgent housing problem that exists, especially in the capital area. One minute most government ministers speak of the importance of solving the existing housing problem over a year's freezing of housing, while at one point they do little but delay and prevent the necessary structure. I don't know about anyone else, but I judge people by their actions, not by what they say they're going to do. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the local minister whether she intends to prevent 400 small apartments from meeting up with the Hostager in Reykjavík. The need for housing in the capital area is very high. During a meeting held at the Council of Reykjavík last Friday at the launching of the present part of Hearts, Pirata, the Left Green and the United States, which has taken up the construction of 7,000 apartments in Reykjavík for the next five years, some strong criticisms were presented at the Hostages, where they have done well in faith that in the government, there were decent people who would be standing under signed contracts. You see, contracts have been signed and plans have been made from that point of view, but the present government does not seem to be bound by the contracts it sign itself. Could be, top dog. Mr President, is this exactly what's in Icelandic society? We do not stand by signed agreements, we are unable to complete big, difficult cases, and give in to emotional pressure that is unassailable in the real world. Could it be that this is exactly what the power of the political system that we have built up in crystal? [[The president calls.]] There's talk and then there's confusion after. I believe in the highest. The Minister of the Interior is part of the solution, not part of the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u20	V.E.G. President. It asks whether the Minister of the Interior is preventing hundreds of apartments being built in the Hindre area. Then there is the responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to support domestic flights in Iceland. The government runs an airfield in Watermamur, Reykjavík, where local airport headquarters are located. The decision is then made by the Minister of the Interior Church of State in each of the days as to how to handle this matter. These are especially questions about what has been called a third highway called an emergencyway. No further developments can be started until the Minister of Internal Affairs has decided to close the course. That's the way it ends. It is important for the national airport authorities to have some kind of visuality in the way the international flight is organized. It is not possible for the Minister of Flights to make decisions that have fallen to the point of reducing national security to the extent that it is safe to do so. Once people decide that things are okay, they make up the decisions they make. Also, there is no way to plan a flight in such a way that domestic flights are likely to drift away from the area of the Radom without transporting anything else. That's just not how it works. The responsibility of the Minister of Homeland as the head of the Air Force is to make sure that national flights can be run safely and in both its general and national safety areas. There's the State Department's responsibility, number one, two and three. Although I would like to direct all the housing in the country, I have not been assigned to do so, until then I will concentrate on this assignment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what it says. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u21	A respectable president. Thank the Minister for the answer. I have to say, I don't understand this discussion about an emergency runway. Where is this runway defined as an emergency route? This word has somehow just been hung up and accepted, so called, like the so-called collapse. [[So-called.]] I don't understand how we can live with the fact that some people in town decide that there's an airway in this airport called an emergency highway, and an entire department will be making decisions as a result. [[Up front.]] As far as I know, the purpose of this course is that it should not reduce the safety of air transport in the Water marshes. This runway should not have anything to do with this specific structure. I have to say, if the decision made by the Minister of State is to prepare to take, it is certainly not to close this course and take no part in the contracts that have been signed, it will not be a major factor in the structure of the city. That is against everything other government ministers have talked about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u22	A respectable president. Of course, the Home Ministry makes decisions on the basis of flight security. The management of this case has not yet been completed in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The circuit 0624, which is called a third or an emergencyway, does not matter what it is called for in a general discussion, is part of a Reykjavík airport airport, and until the decision has been made to be taken out of use, it is part of a Reykjavík airport. If that decision was made, then another assessment of the security at the airport would need to be made. Before making decisions that could cause the international flight to become a parapet in this country, people do not know how to plan it for the future, they should look at the matter from all sides of the country. My responsibility as Minister of the Interior is for flying in the country. It is not for the construction of apartments in Reykjavík, although I have a great understanding of the need to build apartments in Reykjavík, a great understanding of it. The responsibility on the secretary of the Interior turns toward flight security. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u23	A respectable president. The board of directors mentioned earlier, I believe has held somewhere between five and ten final meetings. It's not over yet. It is inevitable to ask the prosecuting officer of the Independence Party if there is anything in the way of the Commission completing their work and providing results, whether he or she has anything to do with checking or whether there is in general any new political system that should be mentioned as not until the presidents have held a special meeting to review these conclusions first. The World Parliament's political parties have won this ideal period to meet the great appeal in Icelandic society for greater democracy in the country. I'd like to ask the minister if there is no cross political reconciliation in the country, which can ensure a political change, that the public in the country can bring in national terms, and if that alone is not an enormous step forward in the government of the country. Second, I would like to ask if the minister does not believe that these suggestions need to be addressed immediately this week, in view of the need for such suggestions as the Christmas hearing. We have only four weeks of this council if a national agreement is to be carried out with June elections. Can't the minister give us a date, a time, when he thinks this case needs to be over, whether it's the next Friday, Monday next week, or Wednesday, any day? Finally: If the other three areas, national property, exposition, etc., does the minister still feel that the Party should join to propose proposals for the Constitution? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that I think we've done quite well in this terms to bring up a discussion of the Constitution changes in a new way by appointing the committee to whom this is being discussed. In my case, we have reasoned that our two members of the Committee, they have come and explained the situation from time to time. I have noticed that in the case of the committee, new ideas have been born, and some are still relatively recent, although they have become somewhat mature in the committee work. In my own way, after the committee has reached its conclusion, there is no need for anyone to stop his work. It has been my experience, however, that there is still a lack of a point, that people can have different opinions about how large they are, as often would like to be in the tiny print when the jamming process begins to grow. If you ask about my personal opinion, I feel that way and have made it clear that it would be more than once that it would be a big step for you to make it possible for the public to call for a vote on a law from the council. I think it is far better than the right to make such a vote with the President alone. I also believe, as well as the evidence that the Independence Party has done more than once in a government contract, it is time for us to set up an resource directive in a constitution and hope that the committee will give it the job so that we can achieve a good solidarity on it at the council. Now it sounds like the other things are a good partnership, i.e. About the nature protection principle. On the other hand, I sense that there is a bit of a delicate matter with the excrement. [[The president calls.]] I can only see that the committee is working on a set of laws that have been established here at the council, but it may be a different understanding of the arrangement when this discussion begins. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] For my part there is no objection, therefore, that as soon as the committee agrees, the matter will be accepted into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u25	A respectable president. There is no basis, therefore, for the political parties to be united in the change in constitution, which guarantees the public the right to national law. But I must pray to the highest. Ministers to deepen it solely on what is not solidarity. It's the highest. A minister to say that he does not believe that there is a national agreement on resources, or is it the principle that he feels is not a solid agreement? Then I repeat the previous questions: In order for us to have a national bill along with the election, will it not be necessary to make a decision this week so that the council can make this law before Christmas? And second, if the agreement goes no further than that it is only about the national payment, is it not enough a significant and large step in the democracies in our country to make it enough as a single individual change, even though the independent party is not prepared to get together on other factors that have been considered?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u26	Mr. President. It is impossible to plan on going into some subject discussion about the Constitutional changes during question periods. There are a few things we need to be clear about. I've been here for this job and I'm still doing it. I think it might be a good idea to take any suggestions that have been considered on their own during the council. It would be in the spirit of what I've always spoken to, that there must be a wide convergence on the Constitution, as we have always had here in republicary times. In terms of the timing of the vote, I've previously said that it might be appropriate for us to choose the constitution in conjunction with the election. However, that is not a crucial factor. However, we must remember that if there were a special vote for the changes in the Constitution, we would be doing so on the basis of a provisional principle that called for considerable participation. In this case, people would have to appreciate it here at the council whether such involvement would likely take place, especially if we had one aspect of the Constitution. I think it's important not to talk at a corner in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to be set up in such a way that I'm about to put some outstanding advantage in this matter. [[The president calls.]] I would like to reach a common conclusion on the timing of the vote and on the particulars. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u27	V.E.G. President. Today is a great day, for today we celebrate the modern - day English language. It was first decided in 1995 in the time of Björn Bjarnason Björn's son, the then academic minister, to celebrate this day on the birthday of Jónas the Hallgrímsson of Hallg Monster. On this day, events take place in order to draw attention to the position of the tongue and to celebrate the day. In my hometown, students are reading together at Hvosta School. I know the senators were on the move today to observe these events. This is done every year to show how much we Rangers hold on to Njáli. Our mother tongue is exactly what makes it possible for us to link the past with the present. Even if it is ancient, our case is alive. That's why it's extremely important to our community. It is the key to the future of each individual to master his mother tongue. Doing so will help us to learn other languages, and this will help us to obtain all the information that can then push us forward. A respectable president. At the same time, there are threats to opportunities. In recent years, we have discussed the situation of the Icelandic language in a digital world. In 2014, at the General and Education Committee, the Parliament's resolution form was adopted at the Parliament's Parliamentary Action Programme on the use of Icelandic in digital information technology. I have to say, the chief candidate of that matter was a why. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, who was on the board, was on this because we thought it was important that we, who were responsible for the future at the council, take this matter to us and try to do everything in our power to ensure that the Icelandic tongue held its position. We all know how important English has become in their young world. You see his new 11 - year - old boy interacting with both oral and written English with others that I couldn't do at that age. It's simply because the digital world is in English. In the event that you look at it, there are some indications that if you don't have to do something about it, the Icelandic tongue can disappear. A meeting of the General Commission was established when we had this synonym to treat it that only 25% of the country's people used an Icelandic user interface in digital information technology. That's not a high ratio. When people grow up with such things, and it may be the larger part of a job and play in the digital world, you realize that these include threats to our good tongue. An individual who is unable to use his native language in this situation is less than others. We need to be on guard against the position of the tongue. It is our duty to fulfill our language and to have the condition that it will be useful and live, continue to associate the present with the past, even in the digital world. I look forward to hearing what our excellent minister of education has to offer and his vision of how we will ensure that the Icelandic tongue will live for the future and will continue to become our vital tool for getting information, in order to connect with our culture and to connect with the past. We lnjustices all live in Njáli. Dr. Gunnar of the River Side was the greatest warrior in Iceland, as everyone knows. That's why we all celebrate the Gunnarslma of Jonah, son of Hallgímur. As children learn their first outhands, they are very beautiful. [[Up front.]] I'm going to meet a challenge. Skarphéðinsson But I can't cross Gunnar's chair all: A vacation over the sun's land on the summer road, and silver blue Eyjamatin The golden flame was embalmed late in the day. On the east is the great image Over the country, and over the head bright coolness; In a fairer spring of heaven, a fairer fountain. A heavy waterfall at the cliff house The precipice of hanging flies under the bottom of the earth, where the gold store Frosti and Fjalar. But on the other side stand firm, blue red furs finished, The Mountains of Tinda And with a green belt girded on the dollar contests. And with his helmet a slide, and with a white model of snow, Look at them over the waters of the sky blue, Who falleth down the beautiful plain of the Amorites; where there was but a small house, They spread over the flowered tundra and the green pastures. V.E.G. President. I realize that I should have requested permission to quote in here and read up our very favorite hosts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u28	The president should've broken a case, too. A senator with a bell ring earlier, but he did not trust to do so under the poem of the son of Jónas, the son of Hallgrímsson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u29	A respectable president. It was a good thing for the President to save the bell. But it probably would not have been a special thing to wear under a bell, it would have been some kind of a piece of music at the same time. Our mother's language contains the knowledge and experience of the generations, the ones who have walked before us here in the country. The concept of speech, speech, all of this contains the people's ideas and experiences in the country, and it is the main thread that binds the generations. Therefore, it is our duty both to the past and the future to ensure that the skills of the mother tongue will be preserved, that our mother tongue is tamed, that it is not something we only talk about during festival days but our living realities, that our children grow up so that they learn the language, and learn first to use it, enjoy it, and all that the language offers. That is exactly what happened to a proverb, that we face certain threats, and that they are among us among those who are more dignified and fierce. Senators who have preschoolers know how much this is available and how easy children have to provide and access to English material. I have sometimes thought about the time and discussion that occurred in society when the so - called cant TV was found in part of the country and the concern that was then concerned about the language. I can't tell you what would have been said if the people who were most worried and warned about it were aware of the future that was waiting for us in these matters. The bioavailability has become so extensive. Therefore, in the generation that now lives and has official power, we are under obligation to ensure that the Icelandic will be the best and continue to work in the realities that our children live in, this digital reality. Of course, we need to connect ourselves, but children especially. To accomplish this, we need to ensure that the digital reality in Icelandic is as valid in our native tongue as it is in writing and speaking. To accomplish this, we must ensure that, within the next few losss and years, sufficient funding will run into language research and development. Even now, though, discussions between governments and employment are turning away in terms of involvement in economic activities alongside the government in financing this work. I think there's a good way that the state and the business of this all agree because the interests are so great. This must be the way it must be, so that within the next loss and years it will be guaranteed that sufficient funds will be made to do the work necessary to have Icelandic currency in the digital world. The cost of doing so is, however, only a fraction of the enormous cost that would fall on us if the language was broken. If our mother tongue stops being the next generation and our children tamed, we will face a problem that is extremely difficult to overcome and not even certain that all the funds available to us would be used to do so. In other words, a respectable president, we are adamant at the clock. We can't wait for years. We cannot wait for the problem to manifest itself. We must do what must be done to prevent that from happening. That is why I repeat that discussions between the state and the commercial world have begun. Job's life has been very successful, and it has shown great interest. On our part, I say that we will want to do what has to be done for the next loss and years that the money is there, and I am confident that there is a great desire here in the hall. Here are some respectable senators from all categories who have put forth great effort to do this work, and I think this is one of the issues that we generals can make well of, and show them that when it comes to the basics of their native tongue, we stand together and work well together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u30	Mr. President. It is well established that the high Council should discuss the status of the tongue on the day of the fine artist's birth. It is similar with the fact that the discussion is under way from the virgin woman of the assembly. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Bruásdóttir, who has arrived in regions where the most beautiful and best book was written. The future of the Icelandic language does not come naturally. In 1849, 130 farmers sent a petition to Generalis, where they went looking for authority to take up the practice of speaking to the public in Iceland. At that time, there was an Icelandic family scene. Today, too, we face new threats. We who read yesterday's science fiction were impressed by a future in which computer - controlled devices could be guided only by talking to them. Today, that description, in effect, has called. Today, it is no longer a future. It is the present. This in itself will lead to many benefits for us living in this world. But it also poses certain threats to our small language community, such as ours. It's like the highest. A minister could make a big difference that in the digital reality that has already come to the door, the Icelandic one is eligible. But we happen to have the technology, the interconnection of the tongue, and the computer technology have created a new stage, a language technique, which directly operates on it, and has solved most of the problems of being able to maintain an understanding of computers in the spoken word. All it takes is money, but we also know how much money it takes, it takes 1 you. Millions in ten years. That's 100 million a year. In spite of all of this, it is only three times as much as it is already being done. I believe it will go well with you, Mr. President, that on the day of the Icelandic language, the Allied council will agree to raise this matter in a way that gives us enough money to implement it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u31	Mr. President. There is a stone in the Hjolt Islands, which says: "The land shall be built by law. It quotes old Norwegian lawbooks and Njáls. Of course, members of the council know the outside of the book, where Njáll makes those words. The reason we still understand this today and understand the cord we have on these British islands is the language. As we have seen, though, our language may be changing more rapidly in our present times than it has done many centuries before. This means that our strings are broken against other kingdoms, as well as against world civilization. I allow me to say that our language and how it has shaped our culture are the most important contribution we make to our world culture. It is our responsibility to ensure that the world culture will continue to be as diverse as it really is by ensuring that this case will continue to survive, that we will continue to use it to think new things, write new things, create new things, sing new things, write more poetry and stories, think something new. As the situation today is with the development of technology, it is clear that our children will grow up in a radically different environment than those of us here. The changes that the last two generations have experienced in social ways are far more radical than those of the previous generations. Of course it will affect the language. I rejoice if it is possible to make a real effort to develop language technology so that it can be, like a whale. A senator who spoke before, talking to computers and other devices in our language, but it is also important that we ensure that there will be ideal conditions here to create in this language, that there will continue to be told stories and written poetry in Icelandic. It is not enough to speak English with simple commands, it must also be the input behind the language. Therefore, I also remind me of the role of cultural institutions, the publication of the country's publication, and the National Institute for Culture, to ensure that we continue to think about new things in Icelandic. [[The president calls.]] That's the only way to keep this language, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u32	A respectable president. Congratulations on the day of the Icelandic language. How appropriate it is during this day to discuss matters that concern the future existence and strength of the Icelandic language! Today, we were presented with members of the Parliament with a resolution regarding the state of the Icelandic language of 2015, from the Icelandic Language Committee. It emphasizes the importance of public property and the potential for all citizens of the country to use Icelandic. If so, there must be a number of factors, including the use of digital information technology. Hence, it is so important that we know what steps we must take to do this and how action will be required to work on goals, financial goals, and timings. It is therefore a cause for joy that following the resolution of the General and Education Committee adopted last year, a report came in December 2014, with a review and a plan being implemented. It's then our business here to follow up on that budget and to encourage the rest of the community to get on the project, which is why I'm most delighted to say. Minister for cooperation with the professional life of the project. We've got some very good spell-registered programs. We need programs to correct and guide language. We need computers that understand English, which speak English, we need mechanical translations. Icelandic language is the basis for the education of all those who use it daily, whether it is the first or the second language in the person. In many cases, young people use mechanical translations rather than dictionaries, picking up literature on the Internet rather than on shelf. Therefore, this is the basis for continued use of this medicine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u33	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion and congratulate all members of the United States of America. I can agree with members of Congress who have spoken of the importance of Icelandic currency in the world of devices and computers. It was one of the largest tool steps in the Icelandic world, at least the last few decades, when it was successful to ensure that Icelandic letters in the environment of operating systems, etc. This morning, I had the privilege of being a guest at Puppy School, where students celebrate the day by reading Njálma and making their tongue high below their head. Then I thought it's no coincidence that they're reading Njálna, not just that they live in the north. They pick Njálna rather than e.g. The phone book, or Generalist because Njálma is a work of art that comes from Icelandic culture, and we agree with it. And in all this discussion, I think it's very important that we don't learn the language from our refrigerator. The guy standing here always owns old cars and the directions with those cars are in foreign, yet I always speak to those who fix the cars when they break down. That's because my car and I are Icelandic, we are Icelanders. It is important that the material in this digital device is Icelandic, that the books, the culture, are Icelandic and Icelandic. Icelandic humor is not so easily translated into Google Translate. We read it in English and understand it because we are Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] Even if we place extra money on secure Icelandic technology in the digital world, we must not forget to continue supporting our culture, literature, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u34	President. Thank you for your discussion. First, I would like to present a song that Andri Magnason wrote on his website in 2009 to celebrate the day of the Icelandic language. It's called CD-D. Let's just stop at: CD Drive - Isn't that a nice word? If my grandmother had been asked, they'd have been CD-rayed. suns and shadows January 15, 2010, issue of Keili The Radios of God and Angels soon Expirate the CD Drive I'll be free CD-ROM "I love you, and when I think of you fill my mind with CD-ROM I thought this song fit very closely with the different worlds that have been published here today. Let us bear in mind that in our study thirst, our kids get information about how to do things on YouTube. My son recently opened his computer and found out what was wrong with going to YouTube and there finding instructions. Then he went back to YouTube to learn how to put his computer together. We have no study material that appeals to these young boys. They speak in English to most people, and they collect information and information in English. We need to use it before our tongue becomes like a beam, that it becomes out - of - date, and that no one knows it properly because English becomes the mother tongue. I challenge the highest. The Minister of Education to add and bring some real solutions where the main course will be reviewed. I wish that the so-called hats will be put up at school, where kids will learn to cut apart computers instead of just knit and build.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u35	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Proppé, in view of the fantasy wish that the moment never surfaced that his refrigerator would ever speak to him in a more rich and better English than it had itself. I'm not afraid of that moment. However, the day may come sooner than ever before that Iceland's refrigerators have a wealth of vocabulary than they do among the Icelanders. At least we need to make sure that anything we can do prevent Iceland from speaking worse than possibly the tools it needs to use. Technology has become so much so that even those who are so rich in understanding the double - speaking criticism can make an understanding of the laws of language and language technology. V.E.G. A minister earlier said we don't have much time. You're absolutely right. It has been estimated by experts that a language community is missing the opportunity to put its harness on this new technology may diminish and even die within a century. That is why I was disappointed at the highest. A minister was no more powerful in his presentation of the ways he would like to be with Iceland and with the Commission to respond. It is clear what needs to be done, and in fact, there have been many reports on it. But cost has already been identified. I took those numbers earlier. It takes no more than triple the contribution that has already been added to this area in the schools of the Ministry of Education. But instead of making statements that he says he'll guarantee it, it seems to me to the highest degree. To state that a minister would go to the knees of his secular work to turn money from there, he would use a day of Icelandic language. What's going to happen? Minister to do if he doesn't get money from there? I believe this is a matter that we, the General, are required to ensure and use this day to protect the Icelandic language by such agreements. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u36	A respectable president. Icelandic language is valuable in itself, and it is important to protect it, to strengthen it, and to support it, even if only because it is unique, a language spoken by relatively few people, and to have an unusual strong connection with history, while it is an unusually powerful medium during the same time. In English and in English, our key is to a democratic participation. We're fighting with it, we're going to figure it out, we're even going to find that history at times, but all of this is what we're going to do through this incredibly precious tool of Icelandic. The Icelandic is the foundation of the democracies program. Therefore, we have to look forward to the fact that children in Iceland with their first language and language do not have Icelandic in their daily lives, i.e. when the ever growing chapter of daily life cannot be done in Icelandic, we are actually taking a cut from their ability to apply, to use, and to enjoy Icelandic as a device in all these daily activities. The key element number one is that we have a strong basis for more intensive paint in Icelandic, and that is what we do by increasingly entering the digital environment. But it is true here that if we lose our legs in this disease of Icelandic, there will be no turning back. That's why I'm glad we're here with paraphernalia voices about the fact that we have to take action. Rather than just looking at the English and digital world, however, we need to look at strong national radios, strong opportunities for publishing, translation, research, and theaters in Icelandic language. It's also daily life, it's the media and everything we enjoy from day to day, but digital technology is important. [[The president calls.]] We have some good scholars there. They need support, and they leave him here from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator and head of the General and Education Committee for starting this discussion about Icelandic language in a digital world and the threats to the reality we live in. And I'd like to thank the highest. A minister of education and culture for his inputs and the discussion of what the project really is. It is proper for a respectable president to take this discussion here on the day of the Icelandic language. A date that has been held since 1996, and it was appropriate to decide that the day was on the day of the poet Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson. As a poet and a writer, he was, of course, a fanciful person, as well as a part of an Icelandic language in a nation's consciousness. It is a ongoing task, the struggle for the Icelandic language, it has not changed. However, the technological revolution that we face and the use of electronic media increase to some extent, changes to a degree the focus and address, such as ensuring the Icelandic user interface of software. The struggle to defend the American language and maintain the nation's awareness of its value is, and I emphasize it, a ongoing task. In this context, it is important to defend and preserve Icelandic language and language. With increasing use of such media, it is a new task to deal with in all technical and technological access to software and electronic material. Of course, the changes are very fast and revolutionary, and we may be slow to react. [[The president calls.]] It is only to sense that the effort and willingness are there to meet the demands of the digital world and the conflicting possibilities that come to us at an adventurous speed. I hope we have a choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u38	A respectable president. I'm not going to discuss Icelandic language in a digital world; nor is the birthday child of the day known as that day; but another birthday child of this day, Jón Sveinsson, Nonni, born precisely on November 16, 1857; exactly 50 years after Jónas Hallgrímsson, on the Moorth Valley, which is not far from the Oxnadal, where Jónas was born. Nonni's story is remarkable because he moved to France at the age of 12. In other words, he was fleeing the poverty in Iceland. He taught in Denmark for decades and wrote his first book in Danish. He spoke fluent French because he studied at a school in France. He accepted a initiation of the priesthood in Britain and spoke excellent English, although he himself was not too pleased with it. He wrote his books in German. On another occasion, when he had written in Danish, he wrote back to German, and in effect, he took counter measures to do so well over 50 years of age, learning German well that he could publish his books in German. At the same time, Nonni wrote and spoke unfavourable English. Those who met him say that he spoke slowly and carefully, for he loved his native tongue very much. Of course, Nonni could not have told stories from his homeland and sold books in his car except because he was a great painter. People may not necessarily have good authority in many languages, even in languages. We're here fighting to live in the English language. There is reason to worry, and it is important to be aware that it is a challenge to keep alive in a language spoken by only 320 thousand people. We need to work at it. But I also worry about children like Nonni who move to other countries and have to learn a new and foreign language, such as Icelandic, because if they do not have as well a foundation og Nonni, their future is not as bright as it would be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to thank a person for bringing this matter to his attention and all those who have been involved in the discussion. Of course, the Greek language in the digital world is important. The most important thing is that we respond to the demand for children's content, to video games in Icelandic language as central language. There's something I'm glad to hear that it's the highest. I hope the Minister of Education wants to place money in the coming years and decades. But there is one thing that I consider to be a characteristic of the discussion - I am now one of those children who grew up in this exotic digital technology and who are bilingual if not trilingual - and that is not to be afraid of a language. We must not think that our culture will be wiped out if the Icelandic world becomes worse or if our children suddenly double - weighted. It is natural to be bilingual. They need to be supportive of children who are bilingual in Icelandic schools, such as by making English teaching better so that they can have as good a power in English simply to meet them, since this is not always a matter of preserving the Icelandic language as it is. Languages are constantly shaped, and each time we mold them. But it is natural to keep English in mind. It is a beautiful language, an old language, and an outstanding insight into many different languages and ancient Icelandic history, which is a privilege. However, we need not be afraid because other languages open up other cultures, just as the Icelandic one opens the Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u40	The president would like to reiterate that there is a clock failure in the speaker's chair, so the president will be left to watch his time and give him some time. Senators giving a speech know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u41	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to have an example of time-taking. Then I asked for a few questions to the highest level. The Minister of Ministers on Auto-Driving Cars, on the one hand, the question of whether there is anything in our legal environment that prevents them from being introduced, whether or not we need to attack some adjustment in order to legalize such cars on the streets, and in another place, whether some policy has been carried out by the Ministry for self-employing cars. In recent years there has been quite rapid developments in this subject. It was likely during a meeting that the first 100 cars arrived in a public market in three states of the United States and had driven from Google since then. We've got big projects going on, including. With Vovo, with Götaborg, a project similar in size, and then, of course, very rapid development in the self-refutable properties of cars that people still drive. For example, automobile producers have become selling with traditional automobile software known as ◯proputalo, or actually self - control. People have loaded such software into cars on the streets and driven them by self - control between Iceland's country members and ours. So there is no question that this technology is no longer just something in the future. Rather, it is simply a reality, although on the streets of Reykjavík and neighboring communities, to a limited extent. So it is particularly important that we have all the legal frames that are so clear and that we are working on policy in these areas. For my part, I have strong conviction that this development will be much faster than humans have previously thought and that it includes a great change in society and a grand opportunity, including some. in changes between private cars and public transport, ability to combine vehicles, ability to reduce the enormous land use now under cars in parking lots, the ability to make changes in modified living areas, the importance of urban and surrounding areas, the change in trade composition, the change in product delivery, and the reality affecting most aspects of daily life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u42	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator here calls attention to an amazing phenomenon that is self - driving. I agree with what. A senator that will be particularly helpful in observing their evolution in the years to come. No doubt, so evolution is quite rapid, and you have seen the last loss that it is getting closer and closer. You may feel that you are in childhood science fiction when you think that soon you might find it realistic to see self - driving cars on the streets of cities, and you think that they could probably change things about people who don't drive conventional cars. But I'd like to answer any questions. A senator's pointing at me about this. The first question is, Is there a legal barrier to self - driving cars being used in this country today? To answer, national legislation does not allow driving self - driving cars. As cars become more automatic, there will be opinions and obstacles to current legislation, especially traffic law No. 50/1987, more extensive. Their regulations assume that a driver with a suitable driver's license will drive his own government and be responsible for driving a vehicle. Under the Law, a driver must be physically and spiritually capable of controlling his vehicle, as well as for whom a driver must not have taken alcohol or drugs. Under the law, it is a registered owner who needs to repair the damage caused by the use of a car, although the damage may not be attributed to failure or mechanical defects or to the mismanagement of a driver. However, this must be borne in mind legal guarantees that are intended to improve the financial damage caused by the use of vehicles and owner and/or the driver responsible according to traffic laws. As a result of this and this legal obstacle, there are some questions that we need to wonder about here. First of all: Would a driver's rights have to be redesigned with regard to self - driving vehicles? Is that so? Second, should a driver always be required to meet the conditions of the law, which are responsible, and to intervene if necessary in the operating of a car? Or doesn't it have to be? Then I'm talking about a driver who meets the general requirement of driving. Third, it may be necessary to explain the vehicle's responsibility for road laws as a result of damage, e.g. For self-driving cars? Is it reasonable to assume that owners and their drivers need to rely on the manufacturer's equipment, which they do not have their own potential to influence? What could possibly result from an accident? Then like a dog. A senator went over, and there is reason to reiterate all kinds of equipment already in automobiles that have fallen to make driving easier. The second question from what? A senator is whether the Ministry's policy has been carried out on this basis. The answer is that it has not been done; there has not been any specific policy in these issues. However, it should be noted that the implementation of transport plans to 12 years of age operates a team working on the development of a forward range for transport. These include the role of self - driving vehicles. The group presented a set of motion pictures during a travel conference last spring, which involved self - driving cars. Then I'd also like to inform you here that the United Nations has a special agency involved in driving equipment as well as self - driving cars. The work of the Agency is based on contracts that car producers, countries and other persons are involved and have approved. In this regard, road safety, environment, and other important vehicles are adopted and equipped. The European Union then makes these decisions in its own rules as well as we will, of course, bring them to the extent that we have a obligation to do so on the basis of the EEA Convention. I want to know that when we answer these questions, we are wondering how we should continue to develop the quality of our attitude toward these matters. We will continue to follow closely the development of international affairs, the development of legal environments, and other factors that are essential for driving such vehicles here and in other countries. That is something that we Icelanders will consider as a result of considering transport development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u43	A respectable president. I would like to express my appreciation for the answers and would like to encourage the review of these legal matters as well as to work on policy measures in these areas, including the fact that this is a fact on the streets. In modern times, you can see a video of a driver who drives from Reykjavík to Mosfellstown. That car, on the other hand, drives that route to most of its own. He changed lanes himself, not the driver, but the driver lets off the wheel. The car itself finds a parking lot, parks itself in a parking lot, and so on. This trend is very rapid, so we need to take our stand on matters of opinion. However, I believe in evolution there is a tremendous opportunity for increasing traffic security because computers and technology are a much better driver, once developed sufficiently than man himself. I think there is a possibility of achieving similar results in the extinction of accidents by this trend, as we have achieved by technological development in recent decades where near the end of a fatal accident. There is also reason to review policy, since this trend can, of course, have a tremendous impact on our need for huge investments in transport. How fast it will be and how widespread it will be can affect the extent of our ability to drive, whether traffic will increasingly spread over longer periods of time when it will be effective in sharing automobiles, whether the fact that an automatic car can pick you up and then drive at a certain destination would be a reason to doubt the need for substantial investments in infrastructure, e.g. Railways. It is a question that needs to be taken into consideration and that we are not investing in roads and monuments in the spirit of the technology of transportation yesterday but that we look to tomorrow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u44	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. Often, a senator is such that the legal environment does not follow technical progress. This has always been so that the legal environment is behind technology. I think this material is very desirable for us to watch very carefully. We know that it is at least very common for me not to take a deeper route than it would be for an accident to happen because of a mistake on our own, the drivers themselves, i.e. Human mistakes often cause the most serious accidents. With regard to self - exhausted vehicles, we also need to be careful that they are tested, as I have been able to do in my response, which responsibility is in case of a car failure. What is the responsibility of the manufacturer in the absence of a conventional driver? I want to thank you. A member of the Parliament in particular raised this issue and raised that question. I think it's desirable for us as before to watch what's going on in the process. It is not surprising that evolution is faster than we are before. It is important for us, just as we look at the extent of transport planning, to keep possible changes in mind when making decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u45	V.E.G. President. In the United States, there has been a marked increase in spreads and distances in the country, but with increasing opportunities for young people to study independently of a farm, its use in buses to get into the schools that the distribution and telecommunications are being taught from an increasing number of younger high school students who start studying before they have had a car test. It has also increased significantly in the number of tourists in the country, and it has become more widely distributed throughout the year. Their use in the same buses has also increased. If you keep looking, the use will be even more intense. Where there is increasing use of others, there must never be safety for a passenger who has to give in to it. Safety should always be priority. It has been observed that people are being left on buses for longer distances on organized missions to get more passengers on each trip. This is true in larger carriages that take them on trips, having like buses within the town's space for standing passengers. These routes, however, may be gone under difficult circumstances, and when passengers do not wear safety beets. Other companies who travel through the country on things that are not classified as buses, which say group buses, cannot go the same way to increase the number of passengers on trips. So I wonder if there is any difference between this arrangement, i.e. on safety principles that cover buses. That's why I want to ask the highest. The Minister of State has rules regarding safety belts in trucks and buses, the difference between national safety regulations, e.g. from Reykjavík to Akureyri or at Citynes, and if there is a difference between the reasons for different rules. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Can group vans or buses drive with standing passengers with shorter or longer distances on organized journeys across the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u46	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asks about safety safety and seat belts in trucks and buses. Therefore, it is first possible to answer the safety laws in these specific automobiles according to the 71rd paragraph. traffic layer and area 3. Security and safety measures for driving vehicles are the principle that anyone seated in the seat of a safety vehicle should use it while driving. In the 5th. The Regulation is made up of exceptions from the principle. They are in some cases, such as driving backwards, driving a car, at a gas station, repair shop, in a difficult or dangerous situation outside a town, such as in extreme inability, in a police car ride while driving arrests or others who may be prone to, in special security, in a taxi car ride, in a passenger's transportation, and in the health of situations, to name something. In the Regulation on the preparation and equipment of motor vehicles No. 822/2004 is then identified as the definition of subclasses of group vehicles as well as the conditions for seat belts in specific subclasses, which are excluded from other categories. In a rough way, the frequent movement of passengers in and out of a car and the driving route may be described as being less driving speed than are permitted on highways. Cars prepared for fewer passenger movements in and out of the vehicle and for use, with a faster speed than normal, must be filled with safety belts. For buses, the main majority of them fall into the subtype of automobiles where safety belts are not required. However, since longer out - of - town trips have grown in the Bus in recent years, it must be kept in mind that the above is not absolute when it comes to automobiles. Long-term travel in which passengers in and out of the car do not move more frequently, using a group of automobiles requiring safety belts, which are previously referred to as principle, i.e. If a safety vehicle has been equipped, it should be used while the car is traveling. Second, the difference between safety regulations for buses and bus vehicles on organized missions in such lands as Reykjavík to Cityness and Akureyri is asked. What are the reasons for different rules? So here is to say that it should be referred to the principle in answer to question number one. The traditional bus used in urban areas is designed for the frequent movement of passengers in and out of the van so that it is abstinent to wear a seat belt. Another group of automobiles that drive out of town are then a main policy in other subtypes, as previously indicated by the need for seat belts. The main reason for these different rules is that driving traditional buses is the frequent travel of passengers outside and inside, and the speed of traffic is generally lower than that of the highways. Then it must be stated here that these rules take into account the rules of our neighboring nations. Third, when traveling by bus or by bus, are you asked: " Can you drive with passengers standing shorter or longer on organized trips around the country? " In accordance with local laws and regulations, there are no limits to where groups of vehicles prepared can drive with standing passengers. For example, in a group of subclass II vehicles in the country, passengers in seat belts are required, and it is also assumed to be standing passengers, who are to sit in seats on the highways of the country. Last year's Council of Parliamentary Farms, but the bill on passenger transport failed to succeed, ordered that passenger transport be prohibited from driving with standing passengers allowing maximum speeds of more than 50 miles per hour. However, the MAH in regular passenger transport would be permitted to have a passenger standing where the maximum rate allowed is more than 50 miles per hour. if the vehicle was specifically intended for standing passengers, the vehicle should never drive faster than a maximum of 50 miles per hour. Aggressive passengers would have to be at the age of 18, and it was assumed that they were authorized to have passengers on a stand in these automobiles completely dropped on January 1, 2019. These were the regulations of the bill that could not be fulfilled. They may testify that in the ministry, people are thinking about tightening their rules when it comes to operating passengers in foreign cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for her answer. It was a very good answer that even more explained it to me. I'd still like to point to Iceland's geographic area and the fact that these laws are transferred from our neighbors. In and out of the vehicle, frequent travel in and out of the vehicle is hardly to be considered for frequent travel in and out of a vehicle, even though the vehicle stops at the State Hall and next for the sheep's bed, and the passengers are left standing all the time. Well, hopefully, then, these changes are about standing passengers, the highest level. A minister entered at the end of his speech, reaching through at some point, though I find strange to limit standing passengers to 18 years of age because accidents do not make a party ahead of them. I believe that whether you drive at 50 miles an hour or 90, and whether your passenger is 15 or 18 at the time of the moment, it can still have bad consequences. The question is, Does the minister think that such adjustments are not to be made, so there is at least some limit? I don't think it's totally unacceptable that youths and those kids I wondered about between the ages of 15 and 17 before they receive a driving test have been given these distances just to get to school and that in all kinds of weathers at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u48	A respectable president. It is true that we will make natural changes to the laws we consider to improve on the basis of security and other viewpoints that we feel are important to us. There is a set of regulations, changes to this legislation, subject to our presence in the EEA Treaty, which is another aspect of which we are here to talk about. I think it's a good idea, when we take the next step, to evaluate how we should take a standing passenger, and that's quite right. A senator noted that whether the passenger is 17 and a half or an 18 - year - old, not everything is important. For example, there is a danger when people are driving on highways in the middle of a shark. It's important that we take a look at it, and I take it for granted. A senator comes with me in this regard. I'll take them to my heart during the ongoing process. Regarding this particular bill, it will likely appear in a considerable later form in the winter, and we will see how these principles will appear in that bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u49	Madam President. I'd like to state at the outset that something of this inquiry might be out of date because it's been in here for a long time, but I'm going over it in my case. Forethought is the election of inhabitants of the city of Rhinetown about a silica plant to rise. True, the greater part of the town government has said that he will not necessarily accept the results of the country's election, but it is announced that its initiative will be in harmony with the provision of a relatively new government law. We've been talking a lot at the Council of the past few years, since collapse, about the need for us to strengthen the directness of democracy and the survival of the citizens to the decision-making process. There are ways to do this. An election is one of them. One reason why the government laws were adopted by the regulations in them at the time was to provide such a channel for inhabitants to influence their surroundings, e.g. this way. That is why I thought that it was important for me to see how this law is being carried out today. True, I hear this, and I go to meetings many places, that people look to this law, but they also worry that the law in itself is meaningless, for it is a sign of counsel and not binding, and therefore it is not taking place in the election. This makes me think about it. When we have been dealing with national elections, some large type of citizenship, there are certain laws, clear rules, which depend on how to prepare national pay, the direction that leads to conflicting viewpoints in such votes, to promote their views. The question of a national bill is vital. It's all a matter of opinion. If it is, as I discussed earlier today, of the constitution that assumes that a certain section of the country can require national pay, it is of great importance that we take this discussion also on the implementation and implementation of such elections. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is the subject of the local government. I'd like to ask you what the Ministry is in preparation and implementing this election and whether it needs to be approved by the Ministry. Furthermore, if the Ministry will monitor the implementation of the local election to ensure its implementation is properly carried out. And that at the introduction of the election, citizens of the city of Rhinenes have access to all information. This is about what I mentioned earlier. Finally, the real question is out - of - date from when the inquiry was submitted, as I understand that the question has now been changed. Initially it was assumed that it would be a special option not to have an opinion, which would be very unusual for such a vote, but now I understand that it has been changed. But the questions are about this, Madam President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u50	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asks a few questions about this important matter. I think I'll just have to wind up answering them, so I'll be back in the short time we've got here. First, what is the visit of the Ministry to prepare and conduct future elections in Smokejanestown? Then, on September 29, the Ministry authorized the wish to smokejanestown that the country's proposed election should be done only electronically and electronically. In general, the Council has no place in preparing and implementing local elections. This procedure is performed on the basis of 107. g. Substitute government law. Compare the provisional principle V of the law, a minister may allow such elections to be done electronically only and that a registration form on the basis of it is electronic. It's where the Ministry's coming from. This provisional principle is a five - year development project in the region of an electronic democracy that has the goal of promoting the population's electronic democracy and democracies. This document was given to emigrants from the National Book of Iceland, which uses the role of electronic elections, as well as the Minister's Advisory Committee, which operates on the basis of 6 mg. The provisional principle. This is the second time the Ministry is authorized to do such a thing. Recently, as a result of local elections in the country of Elfus, last March, a town's will was investigated to unite with other rural communities. Second, we ask: Do the arrangements and elections of the city of Smokejanestown need to be carried out under the Ministry, or is the government that is subject to it approved? A rural government needs to request a minister's permission if local election is to be performed electronically only. Other than that, there is no need to consult the Ministry's approval of the arrangement and/or implementation of the local election. It is a national file that has a technical role due to this specific provision for the provision of the national administration principle for preparing, implementing and implementing electronic elections and making these votes, or implementing an electronic election in accordance with the regulations of this Regulation, developing and running a population election system to be used for the electronicisation of rural society at its time and in its third layer over the implementation of electronic regional elections, including The identification of voters, the confirmation of individual votes, the management field of the local election system, the count of votes and the pool of elections. It does not, however, make decisions that are in other people's fields than local elections and elections, such as elections or rural governments, and their decisions are not subject to votes. Third, ask: How will the Ministry's surveillance of local elections be conducted? According to this specific preliminary principle, there is a Minister's Professional Counselling Committee that is monitoring the implementation of the election and preparing electronic elections and is a minister to advise on the implementation and development of this experiment and then to be expected what will happen afterwards. For one thing, the objective is to learn a lesson from the experimentes involved in this article and to make suggestions on what can be considered more beneficial. Neither the advisory board nor the Ministry itself have direct supervision for the implementation of the local election. Fourth, ask: How will the Ministry guarantee the proper implementation of the local election? The minister has set up a regulation on preparing and implementing electronic elections and making electronic terms as specified in the provisional agreement. In view of the experience obtained from the first electronic election, which was conducted on the basis of this law, the initial 2013 Regulation was recently reviewed and a new Regulation has been published, No. 1002/2015. Fifth is the question: How will the Ministry ensure that during an introduction to the City of Smokenestown, the inhabitants of the city's city of Germany have access to all the information that concerns the proposed question and that all views are presented? It is entirely the responsibility and domain of the local government to present publicly the information required by the voters to take to it an informed stand, and it is then on the basis of 107.g. Substitute government law. Six asked a question. A senator at the end of her talk, i.e. Whether it is a principle for the implementation of local elections for the suggestion of a change in sharing structure to offer the advantage of either the advantage or the resistance (e.g. acquired) in which it would only be possible to accept or reject such suggestions on the final payment of a community society. The Ministry has not taken a stand on the individual decisions of the town of Smokejanes, even thinking that they may cause trouble at later stage, so that the Ministry has to deal with it at some degree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u51	President. Thank you for your discussion. I think they are important, and what I think may be most important after listening to the previous speakers is that we guarantee that civil democracy will not be involved in the process of disintegrating people from taking part in the molding of their community. I think it's very important. At the same time, we must live up to our national standards. The Congress announced a national bill for a new constitution that failed to be respected during the last term, and it is very sad how it happens when the local governments say they cannot consider respecting the conclusion of national regulations on important issues in society. I hope we break away from that path and respect for the people and the people when it comes to various shades of population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u52	The directors of the town of Smokejanes are justifying the possibility that they will not take note of the results of the country's election because the last county elections have been taken care of and the contracts that have been completed cannot be resolved. The fact is, however, that it was not until early this year that environmental assessment was made when two of the world's largest natural worlds are down to the same place as aluminium plants within two miles [2 km] of population, elementary school, and high school. It was not until this year's presentation, and it shows that there is not even a cigar for the industrial region at Holguík; rather, it is based on the Windro Keflavík Airport when assessing the pollution effect. I'd like to ask the highest. Government Minister if there is no defence for local society when information comes so late and after contracts have been completed, they say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u53	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers and what to do. Councilmen who have spoken. I think it's a pretty important thing to do, and I think it raises questions in the light of the ultimate. In fact, a minister stated earlier that there was a situation where the Ministry could not overexchange the surveillance and implementation of this election because it might arise in the case of the decision or implementation at later levels at the State Department. I think it raises some questions because we've brought this warrant into the local government law. We're working on getting such a warrant into a Constitution for national law. Do we not need to revise some of the arrangements we have here? A committee that is reviewing the terms of elections and legislation has discussed the idea that a government or a national government will be given a change and extended role, to be a body of some kind rather than only active in the surrounding elections. It is also to act, we can say, a certain separation between the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which in the case of national agreements is a candidate for such elections, and then the party to monitor the elections. I wonder, though it did not stand in my inquiry, what was the highest. The minister considers this, whether or not she thinks this possibility should be considered. We can only see in this matter how many doubts exist. Now it is that most of the rural or rural government is responsible for the implementation of the election. This was much discussed at the time, for example, when we were discussing the European Union, how to ensure a flow of information from different sides of those in conflict, members of the Member States, what would it be possible to make sure that everyone has access to information, and what would be the role of the government in that subject? I wonder if we don't have to shape some rules or such for the local government, considering that I believe that there is a rich desire for people of the country to use this authority in much more cases, a warrant for local elections. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u54	V.E.G. President. That's how it turns out with this particular phenomenon in the 107th gr. The local government and then the presence of the State Department on the basis of this preliminary principle that we are referring to the Internal Affairs Ministry of State as an authority at the level of government, and the Ministry of State has another hat at the time of election. In this respect, the State Department of State has a somewhat different role when it comes to this phenomenon, a vote on the basis of local government law. The Ministry has only access to this case in terms of an electronic accounting file, no subject or such. It's all at the hands of the local government on the basis of the 107th floor. At times, I have found that the fact that rural law has long been a small part of this business, since it has been in rural law for a long time. This in itself is not a vain use, as I think it shall be. However, this is now an excellent opportunity for us to observe how this will work and how this version of the election will work or, if we allow ourselves to go freely, this version of national pay. We learned a certain part of the Elfusa vote. There were certain changes to the Regulation on its behalf. I'm just as sure that it will be the same when it comes to the vote in Smokeytown. But I think this shows us that there are a lot of questions when it comes to performing such an election. It tells us that when we change the law, we need to be very careful and careful. I'm not talking about governmental laws, on the basis of national law. [[The president calls.]] There are so many things to keep in mind when we finish that job forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u55	Madam President. I've been very interested in the state of law enforcement and, in fact, the affairs of the county as well as in following it, especially in the division of the districts. My request is a follow-up in a big matter that should cover a particular time, but it is worth taking some point on how it has been going so far. We had police on protesting the other day, which included 84 parties offering their workers an advertisement in a newspaper. They were unhappy with their terms, their pressures, and other aspects of their work. I want a minister to be reminded of how this has been accomplished to enforce the ideas reflected in a 2013 report, reminded me of, and the standard produced by the Council Committee, including the Senate Committee. the exchange of additional funds that arrived last year and then permanently again now. The emphasis was on increasing the number of citizens in general. They were supposed to try to start with the country, raise the police, improve the necessary equipment, and everything else, and I want to know how it's done. I think there should have been another 44 police officers. I have a memo here, it was specified where to carry it. I'm interested in whether it's been working out, i.e. The change she had in that memo. The research departments and other divisions were also referred to, not just in the country. Has it been going along with the rest of the year and then last year when it was supposed to be the first thing? In view of the increased tourist current, the rise in the area was also high, it was to be added, the traffic control was to be improved, and the border security added to the Southnes. The exhibit was to be increased, and I would like to ask the minister in general how it went. I have also heard that there was a problem with a car, that the office could not handle it, since it simply needed money to run into the everyday business. How have we been doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u56	V.E.G. President. Hv. A candidate in his talk touches a number of factors that are completely impossible for me to answer during the short time just now available. I think there's a reason for us to take up a more detailed discussion about the factors. A senator asks that the answers to what was recorded in the discussion could be prepared rather than that we are speaking very commonly in this language today. The question of course. A senator turned to me now was primarily the position of the police program. It's such a big thing. I had prepared to answer it with broader lines, but I am quite ready to have a word place with the senator on the points she mentioned, even though some of them may come into my answer. Work on a law-enforcement program, based on the General's conclusions, is doing quite well. It is planned that a legal program for Iceland to four and twelve years will be submitted to the General Assembly of 2016 as a part of a proposed Parliamentary Syllaby proposal for the legal security program now being carried out by the State Department and will take up all four major aspects of the justice system that is the police, the prosecution, the court, and the full penalty. I think that when that plan appears, there is a sound basis for us to start a very careful discussion of these matters at the council. The committee appointed representatives of the council members of the General Assembly, National Association of Officers, State Marshals, as well as two members of the State Ministers have the responsibility of making a legal program for Iceland. At the same time, the Committee is aimed at establishing a level of security on the land, the police service level, the human need and the need for the police for funding. In accordance with this council resolution, the operation of the law enforcement program aims to define the nature and scope of the police work, as well as to define in detail the duties assigned to the police, and each cost of state funds is made by the police at any time. This aims to facilitate informed discussion of police activities and to promote the Senate's awareness of government legislation on police projects, thereby bringing the meeting's professional approach to this issue to an even better look at it. The committee began to operate in November 2012. The proposal assumed that a legal program would be submitted in 2013, but now it was not until late 2012 that the committee concluded its work, so all of this has taken time. The committee decided to report to the minister a report on the growth of the police that was expected to be a guide to the final implementation of this law enforcement program. On the basis of the report, the Commission concluded that the proposal for the separation of the police government from the state of the county and for the reduction of the districts by eight would be carried out at the General Assembly and that the General Assembly approved a significant increase in funding for the police. Since then, there have been all kinds of changes in police administration, separations between the county department and the sheriff's office, such as the driving force. A senator and a body of Congress know and do things that we've tried to do to improve this important matter party. As stated earlier, the State Department's Office is working on a modeling program for the overall legal security system. As well as the legal programme, they are now conducting a prosecutional programme, a court order plan and a full plan. For the first time, these programmes work on a comprehensive plan of the rights system and its forward plan and its budgets related to and its actions and long-term plans for the system and its institutions. It is very important that the members of all classes have been involved in this and that the council joins us in bringing this important issue into this fine policy effort. This project has been taken into account during the shape of the police program in order to ensure a match within all of these programmes. In view of the fact that the main issues of the law-enforcement programme will be proposed in the shape of the overall legal security programme. It will also be taken into account the priorities presented in the bill on official financial law, and I believe that this is now 2nd issue. of the General. This law enforcement programme/registry is seeking to lay the ground down. Then, our mission is to ensure the funds needed by law enforcement. You're right. A senator here and we know that there is an enormous increase in the work done by the police, which makes her very stressful. It is obvious that the Council must respond, and we together must make sure that the country is a proper law enforcement organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u57	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Even though I'd go a little more than just to the police program, all of this is going to be just like the highest level. The minister came in. I'm very pleased with this plan, i.e. ... thatyou're doing this law enforcement program. I agree that what I was trying to do here before, at the service level, it takes on the money, and it's very important that the Senate's financial balance is enhanced. The justice system, which is part of this law-enforcement program - we senators need an update from our people on this committee. The decrease in the number of police departments has been very high during the last 10 to 15 years, one 11%, and we've heard it with cars and driving and all monitoring, which, of course, decreases the safety of citizens and citizens, has reduced all of this in the long run, but the number of tourists has increased and the population has increased. The number of vehicles has also increased, and the accident rates of the policemen themselves have increased, which included increased stress and care. It is very important that the overall vision be made, and I agree with a minister, the overall vision we need to receive, and the money needs to be followed. I'm not entirely sure that it will be handled without financial help now. It needs to be in the budget of each year, but it is a question of whether it is based on finance and government funds for longer than we know now. I just don't see how we can do that. I think that the Society has fixed loose men at last, so the masses may not have turned out to be as great as expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u58	V.E.G. President. In this trial plan and then the legal programme, together with other programmes, is tempted to recognize the need for longer in this area, both the development of the organization and the development of the seminary, in order to prepare more fully for financial needs, how to use the funds available in this category and after events to find out where the challenge is. I think this can help us a little bit to figure out how things are going to happen in the next few years. It may address the policies that are also found in the bill on official financial legislation that we are not constantly in regard to funding to view the massive number of cases that are even the basis of government management for a few months ahead of time in a bomb of how to save individual projects and handle them when it is possible that we know that, for the whole future, I think, we will need to maintain the force here in the country. We know mostly what that task might be, though we now see an enormous increase in projects in specific areas. I think it will help both the council to make decisions when it comes to lawsuits and such problems, this special Ministry and others too, if you realize something a little further ahead of time than just the 2016 budget year. That means everything. That is why I have high hopes that these plans will benefit us in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u59	A respectable president. I'm coming up here looking for the highest level of information. Environment Minister for government policy when it comes to naval energy exchange and to see if there are incursion plans here. Then I'm not only talking about crowns and money in this context but also in a larger context, whether or not to foster technology and research in this sector, as well as whether there is anything to support those who want to invest in ships that are fueled by environmental energy. News reports of last weekend revealed that a hundred Icelandic companies signed a commitment to reduce greenhouse gases. The statement will be delivered at the Paris climate conference in December. In this context, I'd like to know if the Ministry is working on something closely related to this issue regarding the climate conference. Thus, all of Iceland's fleets cover fossil fuels and other fishing factories as well. In this, the fishing road is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions in this country. In the news of RUSH, Svavar Svavarsson, the head of head of the HB Granda department, observed that the company was unconscious and conscious to reduce pollution. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is the government, and especially its Ministry, to support a fishing business in some way in order to speed up this development, to promote technology innovation and development in shipping projects so that environmental fuels and energy could be used rather than fossil fuels? A General report on the growth of the green economy suggested a proposal to change the law so that money could be reimbursed to a maximum of up to 20% of the cost of changing ships to save and improve fuel use. I wanted to ask the minister if there was anything in the green economy report and what the minister's opinion on whether it is over the head of the government's responsibility to do this or if it is something the sea route should do for itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u60	A respectable president. The energy exchange of ships is being done on many programs in the management system. The network's energy exchange is one of the main issues within the current EU action programme for net emissions to 2020 and the State's commitment to the Kyoto Protocol. Then we have a Grouping Room and the State Department together on a project called Power Transmission in Ships. That's what's going on. Green energy is a government and professional field of cooperation and is also involved in the process of transport energy change, which deals with ships and cars. Then there is the Sea, a center for sustainable use and protection, which is the induction of a new climate - friendly technology in its emphasis. It involves research and technology, which the senator mentioned. A report by a team of five advisers, as well as by the European Union, which was published at the beginning of October, describes the activities of the climate and detailed information on the state of the fishing fleet. It shows that the Icelandic fishing fleet uses some 150 thousand tons of oil each year. Predictions suggest that this use will be similar for the next ten years if nothing is done. However, in the EU fuel and energy forecast, climate - related energy sources are expected to be increasingly replaced by fossil oil in fishing vessels. I would like to mention biodisil oil, which is comparable to standard diesel oil in quality and energy capacity. Bioditon oil from slaughtering waste and the use of frying fat is produced in Iceland, and some of it is used on ships. The development of other climate-friendly energy sources may not be too far along, including Those who require technological changes on board the ships and a better distribution system on the energy. There are, however, some things that are done to drive the ships with climate-friendly energy sources, as I have already said. A mission agency, now a Grouping Office, and Iceland's National Institute of Farms, have, among other things, made an assessment of the possibility of rejuvenating oil on ships. They have been working on experimenting with farmers. It has an interesting connection between agriculture and fishing areas, where earth's products supply energy to the sea. It is fun to mention a project directed by governments, an electrical sailing ship of northern cruises, Opal, used for whale inspection. This project has been accepted for eco-friendly innovation in tourism. In this context, in 2014, Iceland took the initiative to set up projects called Nordic Marina, which connects those in the North countries working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, there is no time here to mention the names of all the people who have put these things to good use. However, governments have done much good, much less business. I sense a great deal of interest in the climate and its solutions. I think that, of course, it may be better and try to approach the situation in a complete way, so I would like to mention that the ship fleet will accept the seriousness of this event and will be among the companies who are writing a song in this minute under a statement on the Cape climate. There, a hundred companies combine to want to resist emissions. We are suggesting and working on a new strategy or means of reducing emissions from ships and seas. There are energy exchanges and other solutions. I hope to introduce to you in the Paris Summit such a guide, which includes the possibility of an injury, as it were. A senator asks about. In general, however, climate - based technology is less on ships than on cars, and I hope to contribute to the migration of Icelanders. Excessive use of oil has been achieved in the electrical supply of fish - rich factorys. I hope that leads to the fleet. The transport capacity of electricity is believed to further build up in this field. I thank the captain for moving this fine situation, and I hope that we can all work together at the Generals to clear the way for climate-friendly technology and solutions, both for ships and for other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u61	A respectable president. I can't bear to remind you of an answer I received from the highest level. Environment Minister on emissions of carbon dioxide and sectoral exchange. This is the answer I received at this assembly in case of No. 103 p.m. 215. This indicates that total emissions of carbon dioxide from the seaside are only 3%. I think it should be kept in place during this discussion. On the other hand, I wondered, " Did I not burn myself to the inquisitions of energy, and nothing has been learned from recent years' experience, where politicians have consistently tried to control the development of fuel? ' I can mention two examples from the last term, one of the laws on renewable fuels that have brought billions of costs in the country's homes with no apparent success in the environment, and the other, the emphasis on putting Americans on diesel trucks, which are now believed to have been a major failure. I challenge the highest. Environment Minister to protect the balance and transparency of the sector in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u62	A respectable president. I thank the counsellors for the answers. Clearly, there is a lot to do in this, as you do with feelings about the environment and the environment in general. In this context, I would like to encourage the minister to take a good look at the pressure that is to put electrical lines across the highlands to move electricity out of the southwest corner, where we also have a lot of it and to look for that just because of all this pressure, our technology throws forwards very quickly. It may well be that some technical solutions that very many call for in the large world will come to solve some of the problems that are certainly serious for those living in areas where those who do not enjoy quite the same quality as we do on the southwestern corner of the country. Otherwise, I'd like to agree that we're in the lead. In some way, I can quite understand why. A senator who used to come here before me, Sigmid Andersen, said that the willes can often be mistaken, but if you hold them tight and they're busy, I think they'll turn in to some extent. Then I'm primarily talking about putting money into technology and evolution and research. Then it may not be appropriate to use the word indiscriminately, but I think the government should put money in research and the development of renewable energy and energy sources and not eliminate the shipping fleet because we're a fishing nation and we've been and should be in position when it comes to this trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u63	A respectable president. It doesn't take much to encourage me to want to try to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and encourage technology change, development, and research. I reiterate what I told you earlier that it's not long since this company was founded The Sea, a research center for technical solutions. These include the university and the Environment Ministry inside the door by representatives to include in the innovations and to examine all sides. That's exactly what's been said about whether the ships can be changed, whether the machines can be made more perfect, so that they use less energy, whether or not they can change energy sources, etc. I think there's a lot of things to think about and just as important to us as it is to protect the sea. The sea is as precious to us as it is to the air. It hangs together. There are many things we are now considering regarding these aspects and protection of the sea, including the sea. by working against all the plastics that land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u64	Madam President. I've asked you a question to the highest level. Marine and agricultural ministers within three teams on the preparation of agricultural contracts and reduced toll protection. First, ask: How do the government's talks and the local community offer new or extended contracts? It is, of course, independent of all else, and although nothing new would have been available, this fall would have been very important to shape the policy for some year's future environmental management. The gardening contract is about to run its course at the end of this year, a milk deal next year, and a sheep shop contract a year later. Second, ask: Are basic changes to the arrangements for support for domestic agricultural production or other important changes to the language category and if so, in what are these changes? It is natural to be curious about whether to handle matters that have been widely discussed in connection with the implementation of agricultural policy. For example, to facilitate generation change in agriculture, consider some measures. It is not likely to be overlooked in humans the criticism or concern that when it comes to the production rights or rights under the contract and the appointed people are responsible for it, he is entitled to the penalized system of standards that form the threshold for generation change. Not to mention new parties, those who cannot accept from their parents or get into the article in this way, through relationships that can be very restrictive. Second, persistent questions have been growing about, for example, compression in this article. How far do we want to see the trend moving from traditional family members as a basis for more industrial farming by the use of hard work, etc.? Third, ask: Is it intended to offer the agricultural sectors, which are most affected by the work conditions due to the recent customs agreements on the European Union, adaptation or support agreements, as were done in the garden of Eden at the time? It became critical that they signed a contract with the European Union without consulting farmers and without any intervention into the talks or supposed to be, in charge of the overall working conditions of this article. True, it is said that these things will be left in hand, i.e. to try to achieve new market agreements before the Council receives an consideration of the fixed pay contract. But I do not back up my view that the other one had been better, and it would have been more likely to have been born as one common solution. I'm excited to hear the answers. Ministers, especially in view of the fact that we now have a dose of the year and, in fact, some of the past since that inquiry. But I know there's no particular thing about being accused of being attracted to having found some time to answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u65	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It is good to have an opportunity to discuss the work being done on the market agreements. I can say that they're doing quite well. Every week, indeed, since September 3, the U.S. National Contract Committee has been meeting every week, as early as the last September, with a contract committee of Iceland's Baving Associations. According to the commission, this work was expected to end at the latest of February 1, 2016, but expectations have been made, and has been established, that it could become sooner, even before, and so on, the better. It was also asked whether the proposed changes are fundamental to the national production support system and to what they were born in. Then there is no secret, and I have said it in this symposium recently during a similar discussion that there are a number of goals we set and that the defect of the present arrangement, which was expressed in the exact language. Foreman, i.e. that the thresholds were filled with the need to buy greetings to enter the article. This was an obvious problem with the arrangement, and it would be important to reduce the incentive for the State to develop its support and thus become a threshold of replacement or replacement therapy. It may be quite early to claim that the fundamental changes in the support arrangement are being made. Of course, even though the talks went well, they are not at the finish line. On the other hand, the objective of the government is to provide support in such a way that, as a minimum of the budget, the country's population will be easier for young people to start farming. It has also been a goal for support to be less uniform than it has been. We can take such an article as a cattle industry that has suffered during the present contract that no support or very little has been made to that article, and we may see the consequences of this in the fact that there is a significant shortage of domestic beef on the market, with a high demand. A family home has also been discussed. In this sermon, I have said that there are no factories in Iceland, and the family preparation must remain the core of our operations and the support of the State that is primarily involved. One way is by putting roofs on payment, and this has been one of the goals I have discussed. Then it was a question from the lead general whether it would be intended to offer to other branches that are the most disturbed of some sort, as was the case in the garden of Eden at one time. In effect, I need to ask the leader to go a little deeper into what he means by doing so. When the adaptation agreement was made in 2002, customs were dropped on parts of welded vegetables and replaced with outright payment. But at the same time, subsidies for electrical prices were also recorded that would be comparable to those offered abroad, e.g. correspondent in Norway and Canada In April 2005 this subsidies turned to subsidies on the distribution costs of the energy companies. Over the years, we have been trying to maintain that support, even as he was when he was the best for the article by raising it. The 2002 adaptation agreements also offered temporary extraction of earlier greenhouses for the next five years. In addition, contributions were made for promotion, research, development and re-education projects. On this point, it may be said in general that customs and customs were not negotiated with so - called delicate products, such as meat, dairy products, and processed products. Tolcovians that were negotiated may, in some cases, put the price pressure on individual products, I see it to form about pork, but it should be able to bring in cattle, pigs, and poultry, which are already infested with a similar quantity, and the entitles, when a contract has taken effect, i.e. three or five years ago. Thus, it can be claimed that some of the perplexing pressure has developed. The currently available market agreements have established an idea that a part of the support will be paid out in ways other than manufacturing. For example, there have been anticipated ideas of increasing the cost of remuneration, even wages on crops of land, investment support, and other resources that would make them useful to all habitats. This is one of the things we need to consider. In terms of the timing of the customs agreements, it must be stated, as it is, that toll agreements are international agreements, and it would certainly not have been possible to keep them going at the same time that people had contracts in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why it was very important to me that they humble themselves before entering the market agreements so that people could accept the challenges and opportunities there would come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u66	Madam President. Here is a discussion of preparation for market contracts and reduced toll protection. I'm in the sense that this conversation may be a little bigger than these two things, since our agriculture has a lot of tradition and history and a large part of our culture. This is a huge settlement, and in many parts of the country, there are settlements and fall by service to farmers. In recent years, the trend has become particularly significant when milk production has spread into certain areas and sheep productions to others. But what's coming in now, and we have to keep our ear behind this discussion and can't allow us to do anything else is service to tourists, which is the growing sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to put a few words together. When they're talking about the livestock deal, I've felt that there may be more to them than just the local community and the local community. There are other interests to care for. I thought things were smart enough for me to do. Minister spoke of it, I think it was in the D.A. He spoke of the idea of having an umbrella contract for all articles, and he spoke for greater diversity, as well as for opening up for production. I cut this lawsuit at the highest. A minister, feeling that he was there on the right track, wants him to know that at least he has a sponsor in me. Similarly, he was talking about the strength of milk production, whether during a long period of time, something might have to be done to change that arrangement, without a noose. I thought all of this was in the right direction, but I'd like to reiterate that I don't feel that there are more people, like consumer interests, that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u68	A respectable president. It should be a delight to consider new aspects of how to deal with farmers whom I understood at the highest. The Minister's standing right now. I'd especially like to ask you one thing to do now that we've sold the dairy evasion, and the banks and financial institutions have become very much involved in this system. I understand that sometimes it happens so that they can actually influence the market. It's very important that we somehow keep up with the fact that banking agencies aren't running receptions in this, like maybe in other places. A respectable president. I have to admit that I do not know all of this to the smallest detail, but I still want to have the warning to see how much money is going to go to prayer and not to any other person. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u69	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. When I ask if any of the articles that will be most likely to be affected by the customs agreements will be given some kind of adaptability support period, mainly gardening time. Then I'm referring to a significant change in the work environment and a real challenge for these articles. I fear that if they do not get the promise of any adjustment with support, they can lead to a very negative evolution, including some. Because of the uncertainty. I could think of this as a two-way thing. On one hand, there is a period of adjustment where they would be given specific support or conditions and support in coping with challenges, such as the introduction of new and highly expanded equipment regulations. My questions are from the perspective of a man who is a very well - meaning domestic agriculture, domestic food production, and food industry. I am deeply convinced that Icelanders are making a big mistake if they left the products of food and industry in which we face great challenges, instability, population growth, environmental challenges because of global warming and so forth. I'm bringing up sustainable development. If we are to live up to our names, we must emphasize what we can be self-save in these chemicals, reducing the level of pollution and monotonity that would like to result from commercial production, what is in foreign languages, Mrs. President, is sometimes referred to as the microculture. On the contrary, we should strive to expand our variety and nurture every aspect of evolution in these articles. I am so convinced that as the age passes, the importance will come to us. There is no need for a collapse, so that humans suddenly remember the value of self - preservation in these materials. [[The president calls.]] But it was quite popular, as it is known after the collapse, to talk about having at least the agriculture and food we made there and the fish in the sea so that we would not be starving by hunger, at least not soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u70	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, and I reiterate what was presented in my case. As a matter of fact, I felt that I heard a conglomerate of both support and, of course, all of which are intended, i.e. farmers in the country, to promote food production, to promote agriculture, and to promote the work. It is also the best community case if we, at the same time, are able to promote the production around the country. I'd like to mention the project of the Food Land of Iceland that we're starting to call the grassroot wherever it is and find its connection with the tourism and food culture so that we can sell our products here and also provide a basis for selling them abroad. You're right, and I've heard in the past that it's normal for more people to come up with these contracts. Of course, the government has to look at the interests of many people, especially consumers, in the country. It is one of the aims of the domestic agreements of all time to look to how they will use consumers in wholesome, productive foods with high food security and at the best possible price. I would finally like to agree that all agriculture in its entirety has to be based on sustainable development, i.e. on cultural, environmental, and social foundations but also economic. There must also be economic sustainability in running agriculture in Iceland. At times, it is a little difficult to coordinate these goals, but it is now the goal of the domestic agreement to try to make the best of it. I hear I have quite a few supporters here at the council, at least. The members of the council who are here today. I look forward to bringing the product into the council when it is available. It is true to mention, because it was mentioned that the gardening agreement spreads throughout the year, that it has been extended about a year to try to put everyone under one hat, as mentioned here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u71	A respectable president. I asked a lot of questions long ago, or about two months ago, to the highest. Healthcare Minister for radioactive substances found last spring or summer in the ascites of Smokejanes activation. An incident made it impossible to discuss this inquiry at the council until now. For reasons beyond our control, there is no way a minister or the one standing here can do anything about it, since the one standing here has been abroad. So now there is room to settle the matter, and I want to start by thanking the Minister for coming here in the Senate to accept the discussion, even though it is late - and not to be accused, as the previous statement was, but to the king of Parliament's territory that is apocalyptic. The initial request is due to the date of April 2000. CDC had informed the Ministry that radioactive chemicals in the bottomholes of Smokejanes' activation were suspected. It was decided to measure these subjects, and in June the Ministry is made aware of the discovery of radioactive pollutants. However, the matter does not come to the public until September, late September. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister why he has not informed the public about these radioactive chemicals in the assholes in the case of Smokejanes activation until it became evident. What evidence or evidence did the minister have based on the decision not to inform the public about the matter? There have been some comments in the discussion and, in part, the content of the inquiry has been answered in the media, it cannot be avoided to update the inquiry only and the answers that had been received in September called for several additional questions. For example, during the discussion, scientists, as well as officials of the Southnes Cray and others, saw the need to investigate more carefully whether there was more radioactivity, both in the area of the drilling hole and elsewhere. So I would like to ask, "What is involved in further exposure to radiation in other geologic activations or drinking water in the region? ' [[The president calls.]] Give some conclusions to these studies, and most of all, why did not health - care minister immediately request these tests when he received the challenge? A respectable president. The clock is broken, and I couldn't avoid the speed of time. I have no right to ask about the public rights to environmental information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u72	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Þorvarðardóttir Þordótir has directed to me a few questions about radioactive material in the case of Smokejanes activation. First, why the health - care minister did not inform the public earlier that radioactive material had been tested in the bottom line of activation and on the basis of that decision. To answer that question, I'm first going to go back to doing the right thing. At a meeting of the CDC and the Ministry of Health on April 22, April 22, the Ministry made it known to the Ministry that there was a planned analysis for the deposition of pipes at HS Power. On June 29, the Ministry informed us by a memo that the results of the tests confirmed the accumulation of natural radioactivity during the drilling procedure of the Rhines. The topic of the Agency's memo on the matter was to inform the Ministry that HS Energy would require special permission for disposal of the deposits, according to Article 7. the radiation shield. With the permission of the President, I'm going to read the lines of a radiation memo to the Ministry, which are as follows: The natural radioactive material is in all of our environment. It is known that it can accumulate in deposits in the straws near the bottomholes - known in the oil and gas industry as well as in the practical use of earth heat for energy production. It will then be described in the memo which measures lead to a radioactive deposition, and it will tell you that if it is, it should be considered how to dispose of the precipitation. Finally, it is reported that the testing revealed that at several HS Powerholes in Smokejanes activation, radioactive deposits were measured to the point where permission measures need to be considered for disposal. Furthermore, it is reported that the radiation is very low in energy and that it stops in a few inches of air. At a meeting with the government's radiation defenses, where these issues were discussed, the Agency's experts felt that the radiation was not a threat to the public. For one thing, it was short - lived that the radioactive materials were confined in solid deposits, in restricted areas, and in a closed system, not to be released to the environment by falling water from activation, in steam, or in any other way. The government's radiation defenses further explained this at the end of July and early August, and it was always the same, that there was little radioactivity involved, but to the extent that it was authorised and that the radiation control of disposal was under way. Hv. A senator asks why I have not informed the public on this matter until it became evident what that decision was based on. The question is likely referring to Article 10. the law on environmental information that states that governments are obliged to take initiative in providing information is a reason to believe that an imbalance in environmental pollutants may pose a risk or harmful impact to the environment of people or animals. Thus, it is to say that the nuclear experts - including the director of the Agency, a highly skilled scientist who is trusted and respected internationally - did not, did not think, did not think, did not think, and had never felt that there was a risk to the radioactivity involved. In view of this, it was never considered a cause or reason to inform the public on the matter of the government's defence, and in the Ministry it never came to gripped, for neither I nor my staff have any basis to question in any way our best - qualified radiological experts. The report of this issue on the Agency's website on September 16 was published by the media, hoping that a public discussion would be perplexing and correct. On September 18, the Ministry of Health published a press release on its website, along with the written data received by the Ministry from the CDC on June 29 and August 4 of this magazine. This was so that anyone who wanted to study the communications of the Agency and the Ministry could be considered on account of the case, and especially because of media inquiry. Hv. A senator then asked what helped to investigate whether there is further radiation exposure in other geologic activations or in drinking water in the region and whether there is any evidence. Following confirmation of the results of the test on the Rhine position, radiation protection has begun to assess the levels of natural radioactive materials in deposits in the land of geochemists during the summer period. The fortresses of Hellishi, Nesja fields, and the Black Land have been assayed. At Hellishe activation, in one sample of increased radioactivity was found, but due to the lack of activity and close to the limit of detection, it was decided to submit the sample to an accurate analysis in Finland. Measuring Nesjavalla activation has not shown increased radioactivity, nor has it been observed in Blackmen. The geologic activation samples of the Coresus and Theist smoke received by the State's CDs have not shown increased radioactivity than has been requested to provide higher samples for this gamma spectrum analysis. Defectures in the bottomholes are regularly cleaned and at the last cleaning of Smokejanes activation samples were obtained and sent for analysis of Finland's CDC. [[The president calls.]] The increased natural radioactivity was found to be higher than in samples measured earlier in the year, almost 2-fold higher. These findings, however, do not warrant changes in job practices or licenses for cleaning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. His health minister answers here, but I have comments to them, especially because of the highest. In support of the fact that there was no danger when a minister made the decision not to inform the public until late and eventually. The fact is, the media reports that experts do not agree on whether the public should be informed on this matter. Radioactive experts believed that it was a reason to inform the public immediately about this radiation pollution. V.E.G. A minister also points to 10th paragraph. legal on environmental information rights and in this article, we believe there is a cover for the government not to provide information to the public unless there is a danger to the public unless there is a greater risk to the public. I wasn't necessarily thinking 10. It certainly is true that it calls for an absolutely undisputed obligation to the government to provide information if there is a danger, either now. However, the law still forbids this government's obligation, even though there is no danger. According to the law's objective, their objective is to provide public access to information on the environment that governments have or are stored on their behalf, and, as stated in D-join 1. , to ensure the right of the public to get environmental information and to take into account the initiative of the government to provide information on the environment. So the shelter, that there is a need to refer to the public danger, is not considered by the law. [[The president calls.]] Unfortunately, I have to look at the highest. Ministers have not fulfilled their obligation to the public in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u74	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, most advanced radiation - based scientists have estimated that people and animals have no danger from the build-up of radioactive substances that have been tested in the HP Enissium of Smokejanes. I have further noted that by the radiation defenses the government operates highly skilled radiation experts. As I have said before, and said before, I have no, nor have the Ministry any professional grounds, to question their evaluations of their status. In fact, I fully trust the judgment of experts on these subjects. However, I have previously said, in discussions about this matter, that, in the light of increasing demand for open administration, it might have been desirable to provide information on a subject that is somewhat unique, such as this, as has been discussed here. I haven't failed that opinion. However, it can also be said that public reports on highly technical or technical matters cannot be too advanced and even do not have information value for the general public. This may reduce the value of public notifications when there is a real need to reach the public with information that is important and to make real general interests. I thank the senator for the questions and rejoice to have had the opportunity to explain this matter beyond the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u75	Madam President. The request is now quite old, and unfortunately it has not been answered until today, but in part the media have presented answers to some questions that have been presented as Ministers chosen to respond after a very long time and others not. But I'm going to stick to going down this thing a little bit, and then I'm going to ask the Minister to try to answer all the questions that remain and there has not been an answer somewhere else. You see, a minister has had a double story in some of the things that have been discussed. pay cases, both in evening news, and in RUS, he changed the information he presented there for about 3 billion. K. In advance, pay and loan and how it was and how it was spoken. As a matter of fact, I am concerned with whether a minister would naturally agree that a pay card is issued and a tax and responsibilities paid off long after it has been received. The minister has said that the only public favor he received was this 5.6 billion. K. multi-numbered pay from Energy Energy Energy Energy. It was for work that he worked in 2011, and he has said that the main part of his work was carried out in 2011. AND Capital, a company and a private minister's partner at that time, however, got 1.2 million. K. Substitute payment in late 2012 when a minister was back on the job at the council. In view of the words that the main part of the work took place in 2011, I must ask if some work took place in 2012 after the reinstatement of a minister. That's different. - I have no idea what time it is with the time at which it's gone wrong. It's the two question, about the salmon fishing trip and other trips, I wondered how it came to be the minister of this journey. He's published a receipt in DV reminds me, saying he paid 45 you. K. for the day. That's 155 of you. K. a discount compared to what has been done on a fishing trip with a close friend and landlord. I ask a minister: Who, then, had paid a portion of the salmon fishing permit, or does he feel that it is in harmony with the moral standards of the nation's rulers to accept such a thing? I'm pretty sure some people who aren't in his position would have liked to get a cheap fishing ride. I also ask if a minister has accepted other gifts, payment, loan, or anything like that from this company. My last question is: Does a minister think he has paid off the street of the company or its proponents in some way during his ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and would like to raise questions that arise. A senator has submitted. First, I'd like to say that I was rather upset by the senator who said that I had made a two - story story about my salary. That's what it was, and what it was. A senator, of course, knows that it was claimed that I had accepted credit from this company. As a result, I decided to go much further than the Council's rules regarding the information given to a minister, including a minister of information. In regard to financial matters, tax returns and salary bills were made clear how the pot was prepared, of what payment was being paid. And, actually, it's true, because of what. A senator even mentioned: News on TV, that The State Radio felt that it was right for them to apologize for the news where there was obviously a reason. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid I'm given up on the fact that I've had a double story in this matter. I think it was clear how the pot was finished. I made that decision, and I don't know the precedent, to publish our family's tax records so that people could see exactly what income I got from this company and at any given time. I published in 2012 and 2013. As a result, it is true that I have said that most of this work was done while I was outside the council, without pay, of course. Then the job ended, certainly after I got to the council, but it had been won so that the pay I received was not preimbursed. There have been explanations for the exact way in which they were paid. The pay level was for taxes of 5,621,179 k. ... youseein my tax returns. As for a salmon fishing trip. A senator's testimony has also been made, I suppose, by the person who sold the permits that what happened there was that those who had paid permission to disappear and the permits were sold at a lower price. Since the senator wants to know more about it, it should be made clear that this is the way my wife and I had our wedding anniversary, and my wife came with me on this journey. We bought this license, actually, part of a day. In itself, there is nothing more to say than since the senator specifically calls for it, I would like to discuss it. With regard to that question. A senator, in fact, did not specifically mention in his introduction, which focuses on why a minister has not answered the editor five media about the connection between the company and its representative for six months, in fact, it is not true. If you look at the news from last spring, there are a number of my answers. In fact, it is true that I did not allow an interview, but a lot of responses were made on my part. I'll admit that I had approached this so that I would be giving information in line with the rules of the Parliament on the financial issues of Congress and Ministers. But it also has to be said that, as former U.S. president Lyndon B. Johnson said, at the same time: 'Let them get it, that I was no different ways than to go much farther in the publication of information than is expected, including Because of this discussion about the alleged loans, it was claimed and recorded in the media and it is necessary for me to deal with them. As for drawing the reins of a company or paying off the street, I'd like to say it's not so. I've certainly wanted to pay for the streets of Icelandic scientists. So it is that in recent years, this linked company, now known as the Arctic Green Energy, has purchased knowledge from scientists and experts in Iceland for about $3 billion that have taken on these projects, which are very important. This company, along with the Chinese government company of Sinopec, runs the largest heat plant in the world that has enormous environmental impacts, saves much combustion of CO 2, but first, from us Icelanders, this is an important environmental project but also a huge opportunity for our scientists to participate in this. [[The president calls.]] That, of course, is what has been in charge of all the counsellers, presidents of Iceland, and others who have been involved in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u77	Mr. President. The minister may try to scratch himself out of this. I do not agree with him in what has been published in the media and gathered. He is asked questions in April, and a minister chooses to answer them in the News magazine - part, not all those who have been cast to him - in October. This is not to say that the tax returns all the questions that have been raised to the highest degree. Minister endes show payment, e.g. to private partner, not in the tax returns of individuals as we know each other. I'm just saying that a minister is an elected representative of the public, he is in close cooperation with a businessman who works in Asia who can have a lot of interest in having his company with a minister in Iceland. With the will of a declaration created at the Ministry of Education on Energy Energy Energy, there is some kind of state-series with a administrative position, as well as the Power Institute in these agreements with China and Sinopec, and the State Ministry has not been able to give any other examples. I'm asking a minister if he believes that this China mission organized by the Ministry is compatible with a moral, open, and transparent system of government. It's a fishing connection. In some way, information reaches people, so they do not appear to fall out of the sky. It is clear that, along with this, the director of the company was discussed. A respectable president. In any case, the minister has become a biography when it comes to his introduction to the government's form of Energy. I just don't believe that when two middle - aged men get acquainted with one another's work for the other, for example, there's 50 million potential of human kindness. If a friend's business is involved, a minister should wisely step aside when it came to this controversial Chinese tour and keep his friendship and business with the chairman separate instead of keeping them secret until he was almost forced to answer for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u78	A respectable president. Here's what it says. A member of the United States of America held 50 million to a U.S. I have to say, as it is, this is amazing. What happened was that an apartment was sold. The deed was announced. I've never heard of people being in some kind of corrupt suit by saying such an act. You're damn right I sold my apartment. It's not fit for us by reason of what? A senator, a respectable president, would say this in the way she did it. Of the fact that the Ministry of Education did happen, it's not a very accurate story. What happened in that case was that I contacted the head of energy when all the agreements and declarations that have been made in the relations between Iceland and China on the surface of the earth and directed to him to examine the possibilities for us on the basis of it. It has been published publicly by the Department of Energy for what it did and that it was done on the other hand by the Department of Energy, by the State Department of State, and then in cooperation with the National Ministry of Science in China, but never at any time in the Education and Culture Department, as it were. A senator suggested that, by permission of the president, he said: "I became a member of the Ministry of Education. " This is wrong. It was very different. I reiterate this, a respectable president. It's true that I worked for this company when I was outside the council. It is also true that my wife and I sold our apartment. But this was done by an announcement of the deed. It was before, and it's official. Nothing unusual. Let me point it out. A senator is specifically stated that in the rules set by the GRECO Committee, which now insists on taking the highest priority in transparency, loans due to purchases do not have to be made when it comes to the Constitution of members of Congress, no more than consumer debt, and what can be said, a respectable president, on rents? That's why I like that sentence. The senator's testimony that 50 million men were neither worthy of him, a respected president, when the other was before him, nor was it easy to study. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u79	A respectable president. The current arrangement for the distribution of student loans from the Icelandic loan fund has been a problem for many. The course bar is paid only after a student finishes at least 22 ECTS units in one semester, with a total study of 30 units. This means that since students have studied at a university until student's loans are paid out, a student usually has no income. If we assume that a university education should be so demanding that it is considered to be a full - time job if not more, students can hardly be expected to cooperate with school, as well as to be limited by their current learning programs. Thus, many new students who have studied in the fall must have gathered in abundantly over a period of time to get in and out until school loans fall into houses, i.e. At the latest on January 15th after the year. Those who come from a job market must have gathered well over half a million to support themselves and their families so that they can afford to go to college. That's just the situation today. Many seek the support of their family, live with their parents, and are financially dependent on their family. Not everyone is so lucky to be able to look to the neighbors or to be with parents when they start studying. So many students depend on their banks for advance loans in the form of overwages that are growing and when loans are paid out, they go up to the edge and the game begins again. In order for students to be able to afford a semester of life, they depend on bank loans. As the situation is today, students have no way of paying up a student loan from Icelandic student loans where the Agency's regulations are rigid and assume that all study is the same, that all courses of study are the same, but unfortunately they are not. So it is common for students to land far and wide between rocks and sledges because they can't take much advantage of anything going wrong, such as dropping a course, students get a drop score in a test, or students resign for personal reasons. It is not unusual for students to have had a prior loan from the bank, but when it comes to dues, students have failed to meet the conditions required for student loans. The reasons there may be as many as students are different. Students are often trapped in a cycle for paid student loans, which include overbrows from the bank, and they are very uncertain whether they will later pay them when it comes to overgrading. That's why I want to ask the highest question. A minister of education whether he believes that the advance of student loans is best placed in private banks and the highest. Ministers feel that it is reasonable for students to pay overgrads on such advance loans. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I also want to ask the highest question. Minister whether or not to make any changes in this arrangement through a revised law on the Icelandic loan fund. [[The president calls.]] If so, what does it involve? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing attention to the affairs of Icelandic students. I think we can agree, and most people's estimates are that it's urgent that the laws and regulations on the quality of the loan fund will be reviewed and that these are the reasons for a number of ways. The loan fund of Icelandic students works by law No. 21/1192. In addition, Regulation No. 478/2011 even more about the operation. Annually, the management of the loan fund will agree on the regulations established by the minister, which are in accordance with Regulation. Finally, Regulation No. 79/1998 on the procedures of the seminarary committee loan fund. I'd like to state, Mr. Honorable President, that there has been a significant increase in divorce rates, but the failures to pay were up to 690 million. K. Between 2013 and 2014, there are now about 5 billion. Last year's failure to meet a total of 2.3% of the loans set by the end of 2014 was about 213.1 billion. By the end of 2014, the status of the loan fund of Icelandic students was 41.5 billion. When discussing the social role of the loan fund, it is usually pointed to the role of the loan system in equalizing the potential for students with different social and economic background on university education. The law on the loan fund suggests that the role of the fund is, by permission of the president, to ensure those under law these opportunities for study without regard to the economic situation. This is an important part of the fund, yet its social role is not limited to that. The loan fund has also been used to invest in university highly educated labour and international ties of the knowledge community. The follow-up report National Review of August 2014 for the assessment of the Agency report from 2011 is encouraged by the Ministry of Education and Culture to speed up the preparation of a new bill to legalize the Icelandic Savings Fund. The Committee on Revision of the Credit Card of Icelandic students was set up for the past few months and has already begun work. The Committee is aimed at developing a complete legal bill on the Bank of Icelandic students along with a report, and the Committee shall look particularly at factors such as how it is possible to deal with the increased financial risks of Icelandic students, how to promote the potential for new and changed challenges in international college environment, how to trust equal opportunities to study regardless of the economy, and in what ways to use the loan funds fund of Icelandic students in order to improve academic progress. In their work, the Committee shall have broad consultations with key stakeholders for changing the law on the Icelandic loan Fund. As this committee has drawn close, wide consultations with all stakeholders are made ahead. It is a major part of our educational system and must be made up of very extensive consultations. I know that both when it comes to academic movements and others, we will not be able to consult together in order to make sure that the changes are fully settled. Yet, it is always possible to make sure that everyone will be content with everything, but hopefully it is possible to achieve sufficient reconciliation so that the matter can be resolved at council. In view of this, a respected president would rightly say that the questions of a candidate are related to all the activities and activities of the committee involved here. These queries why. A senator has been especially present with members of the committee. I don't think it's right that I'm making the material emphasis on future changes to the work and practices of Icelandic students and the Committee gets room to complete their jobs that I hope will be in January 2016. I reiterate that when it comes to that work, consultations with those involved in this matter will continue and will be subject to interests. It is very important that this case can be hoped to have a success in the council and that it will be possible to accomplish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u81	A respectable president. All Icelanders have a right to study, but these rights are sufficient if the opportunity is not available. To pursue university education, money is needed in order to obtain the necessary information, such as books, but mostly in order to earn a living, to provide for food, shelter, and other resources. The loan fund of Icelandic students was set up to balance their opportunities, but in order to obtain a loan, a string of requirements must be met, not all of which do. On top of this, most students need to search through banks for advance payment on light - growth. Is it possible to talk about rights when so little is done to create equal opportunities? Are we truly free if not all of us have the same opportunity to apply these constitutionrs'rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u82	A respectable president. I'm so happy to hear that. The Minister of Education has directed these questions to the Committee that deals with the review of LIN issues. There is, however, one thing I would like to point out, but there is a poor divorce right now. They are not a problem associated with the current students, they have never borrowed a loan before, they are 20 - year - olds who have never borrowed money before, and this is their first step into the big world. The present system simply does not contribute to equal opportunities for study. Rather, it is more likely to contribute to a cycle of overwhelms that will lead students to late leaving home, a problem that has been mentioned in the media recently. I'm glad to hear that. The Minister of Education wants to revise these laws, and they're in the process. However, I would like to reiterate that those who are now under reproach at the LIN aren't the ones asking for a loan right now. Something is needed to deal with the problems young people face today. [[To the point: Is the Minister...?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. a voter, a senator, and other members of the council who have participated in the discussion for their contributions. I just want to say, of course, that what's just right here is that the problem that has developed from abuse has not come from those who are taking a loan now, but the money is in the face of this reality. This means that if you have not found a way to cope with the problem and prevent divorce from getting worse, you need to place more money from a government fund in order to meet the problem. Actually, it is with the Icelandic student loan system that there is a great deal of strength, but the way we guide it is a lot of thought. As the system is built up with us now, the strength most runs for those who go rather late to study and are long in studies and very expensive studies, but much less for those who study early and finish at the right time, where the share is much lower. We need to keep this in mind when we review the laws on the loans along with other matters. For one thing, I focused on questions. A member of the Parliament in particular to the Committee, i.e. So try to take a stand on the parts mentioned there. As to the right to study, the basic thinking of loan is to ensure that economic reasons do not prevent people from attending. This, of course, means that it will be our community assignment. I believe the loan fund is one of the most successful decisions ever made in Iceland's educational affairs to build this fund. Therefore, it is a great responsibility for us who are now using machines to ensure that the fund will continue to function, and it will be built up to be powerful and able to give good support. There is a hell to guard against them, e.g. if we're looking at a treasure like an apartment loan fund. [[The president calls.]] We do not want that to happen again with the Icelandic loan fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u84	V.E.G. President. In October of last year, the author of a council agreement proposed a further study of milk science. The case came to a committee and was given a report. The five reviews received were all positive to the conclusion and spoke of as an important step in maintaining knowledge of the development of milk as presented here, but also for use within other articles. At the same time, the headlines expressed concern about the industry if nothing was done about it. The reviews came from the National Association of Cow Prayers, Iceland's Galaxic Association, the National Association of Professionals, and the Industrial Association. Since the matter is considered urgent and failed to pass the last legislation, it was restored to an ongoing assembly with more conveyors in mid - September of the past. At the same time, the first member of the Parliament's lysophilisate, learns that the educational committee of the milk industry is authorized and has been appointed in February, or between the contributions of the Senate formula for growing milk studies. As I see it, the Minister of Education is told to appoint the head of the Committee before any others are assigned to it, and this has not been done. At that time, the commission was not extended, so the committee is actually not active. With the above - mentioned synod proposals and reviews that were received during the last council, and her contribution would have been extended to the highest extent. A minister should be aware that it would continue to be carried out. So I wonder what I'm going to do. A minister has planned to take care of these matters. That's why I'm asking the highest. Education minister to the role of the educational committee of the milk industry, who should be represented in it, whether the agency has actually expired and if so, whether the minister has planned to renew the commission of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, the role of the educational committee of the milk industry is according to the milk industry rules. 1150/2006 is an educational committee in the dairy industry designed to oversee students in the trade, and it is the preparation of the study in more detail in those rules. Regarding the Teaching Committee of the dairy industry and the question of the proposed renewal of the commission of the Committee, it is appropriate to state that a period of instruction in the milk industry has expired, as mentioned, and that there have been some information sought in the Committees for Food, Food, and Food and Transporting Services. The committee will be reorganized as quickly as any appointments are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u86	Mr. President. I feel as if there's some kind of emergency in here if it turns out that it's at the top. A minister has prefigured reorganizing the educational committee of the milk industry. At the time, that committee played a vital role under the best of a former senator, who was, in fact, a agricultural minister, the Guðni of Ágústsson. Under his lead, I felt that this committee had done a very necessary job. For example, I recall that the committee, that I plan for 12 years, cost a special deal with Iceland's National Protection Association, and had much propaganda toward schoolchildren for the benefit of milk consumption by young people, but like the highest level. A minister knows that when he or she is young, it is certainly the most important thing when he or she uses milk. That's why I think it's the highest. A minister should avoid the emergency of bringing back the commission, for much of it has done very well. I think if he pulls it all the longer, there's a big harm at the milk industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for his answers, and with them I am relieved. Since he was reviewing the role of the committee, I have understood the role correctly, that is, in effect, to take care of this study and encourage the minister to press after the claims to reorganize the committee. We need to answer the call that has come from sources in the milk industry, as well as from commercial activities in general. They expressed concern in the comments I spoke about earlier and were all very positive. I hope, then, that when the Parliament's resolution proposal is held for a discussion at the council, it will receive a good consideration on committees and be cooperated with the educational committee of the milk industry, which hopefully brings back its commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-16-34.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator and someone else. Congress members for the discussion. In terms of the situation that has come up, if the committee has been on any given hour, I'll share it with force. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, of course, is that it's a concern. However, other enterprises, e.g. Lactates, maintain very rigid educational activity, propaganda, so to speak, about the importance of milk drinking and, as well as the availability of dairy products, especially for children. I believe that this has not resulted in any loss of propaganda, although something has been attracted to reorganizing the committee. However, it is likely that these matters are not put at risk and that the committee is, of course, fully authorized. I would like to take this opportunity to compromise, though, with something related to securing the education of milk experts. [[We want the gods back.]] As discussed in the conference room, there has been an adjustment in the prospects of Isthian studies in Denmark, and we have discussed this in the past. I've had conversations with the chairman of the milk industry, and because they called us for us to have the Guðni of Ágústsson again, I've had a conversation with him and others about my concern about the educational possibilities of those who want to go to special studies in this area, including the U.S. due to changes that have occurred in Danish educational authorities. I believe that there is a need for that conversation to continue and to expect and hope that this article will be of great support to those who want to learn in this field, supporting them financially, so that as many as possible have the means to pursue education in that exciting subject. [[The president calls.]]
