ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u1	A respectable president. Now the news is that the loan fund of Icelandic students is turning into basic methods used for collecting student loans, about to go to the best ends of laws adopted at the General Assembly on responsibilities, and is creating new ways to keep open responsibility for people who are absolutely harmlessly at the back of time. At lunchtime, the news was heard of 8 of you. Someone would have received a warning letter from the fund. This is completely unacceptable, and necessary to the highest. The Minister of Education is here to answer. He wasn't in question class on Monday, and he's not invited to question class tomorrow. I want it to be directed to the highest. First of all, he wishes to be in charge of the task. The Minister of Education will answer tomorrow. At the same time, I would like to present to the president that I would like a special discussion on this matter at the first convenient time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u2	The President will come this way. There's a senator out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u3	Mr. President. We heard in the lunch news that the Navy organization in Norway protests the plans of the national government to allow large companies to buy fish farms on Norway's shores. Governments are going to change existing laws that give anyone a job of fishing the right to have a boat and the right to go fishing for a living. Fish are among the North's main export products, just like ours. Hole Arne, chairman of a seamen's organization, says that large settlements have already been in 49% of the salad days, and it is not true that Norwegian sailors will be hired by investors who buy the quatane. Here in Iceland, there are 80% of resources available in the hands of the 25 largest projects in the country. The Chairman says the Pension Funds in the European Union have, for example. Buying up the pork production in Denmark, and the Danish farmers have become workers on their own cars. He further says that the Norwegian community is thus built up to gain the benefits of fishing the resources and that economics will never become a goal in themselves in any way associated with the fishing society of people. Should we not listen to those words? How true those words are! Furthermore, Hole Arne says that failures made in Iceland should be avoided by bringing much of the quatane to a few people. As a result, entire Iceland settlements were left on cold ice, and people who worked in fishing fields and fishing work live on unemployment improvements. Yes, I say the eye is obvious. It is time for us Icelanders to look at the management of fishing with social views, not merely profit and economic management, as seems to be predominant in this country and have existed for many years, and it appears to be the future of the independent party and the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u4	Mr. President. It is indeed time for the General to take up a serious matter. As the Parliament knows about them, the Allied Council is responsible for the life of the Lake Tingval, and especially for the creature I have sometimes described here at the council as the height of creation under the Northern Hemisphere, i.e. The ice ager. They are well aware that in the last 25 years, there have been regular discussions about the need to restore it. He had come very close and dying. The General has agreed to various measures to protect him. In the past ten years, their success has gradually been becoming evident. During the past ten years, big business has again begun to appear in hunting, and perhaps most of the last two years. In the last two years, e.g. Twenty pounds is regular at the hunt. We've seen 25 pounds, 29 pounds and 30 pounds of old hunting in the last two years. The world has seen the largest growls. It's a unique fish. At the same time, there has also been an explosion as a popular sport. There are many positive explanations. It's a cheap sport. This is a very pleasant place to live together for the family. The riverwater has not been part of it. There people can come and give the world's biggest war almost free of charge, or very little. Of course, this has put a certain risk of overfishing on the big thing. The Senate Committee responded to the sharpness of the task, setting rules that included the idea that only a fly would catch him and that he would have to be caught and released. PGE took up the same for their countries. We have, however, seen that the presumptuous men have gone to sea, killed at another dozen, and perhaps, in certain cases, much more than that. In itself, growth can be halted unless the rules used by the Parliamentary Committee for the price of the water are fully developed. My business up here is to challenge the Þingalva Commission to take the initiative in the fishing business of the Þingalval Sea as well as to challenge the three ministers involved in the matter of applying themselves for the same thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u5	Mr. President. It has been discussed recently that police authorities are concerned about the threat of terrorism, even thinking that they need more arms or premeditated authority to cope with such a disaster. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that another threat is much more intimate to us and that in the meantime, March 8, is the International Day of Women's Fight in the World. Sadly, domestic violence and violence against women and girls are the world's most widespread violation of human rights. Since then, the UN Women's Institute of the United Nations has been actively fighting in these issues. Of course, a lot of results have been made, that's for sure. Women place more in councils, in governments, and in more places than ever, yet the fact is that there is no society on earth that is not plagued by sexual violence to the greater or lesser extent. In fact, well over a billion women around the world have experienced physical or sexual violence during their lives. The main cause of death among women 163/444 years of age in Europe is domestic violence. We cannot assume that the reality in Iceland differs greatly from that in other European countries. Is it? Do we at times forget to look closer and get caught up in potential outside danger and to sleep a little bit on the watch for what happens almost every day, unfortunately, in our own society? I challenge anyone who can contribute to the U.S. Women's fight and participate in the celebrations on the women's international day on Sunday, March 8, following this battle. I think our energy is better spent in that regard, but I'm afraid of too much of what might come from the outside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u6	V.E.G. President. A bill has now been submitted at the council, and financial institutions are authorized to lend a loan of success. For these loans, there are strict conditions and resources in the bill that are designed to prevent a country's home from in debt, such as this one. As a result of this and other matters that may infiltrate consumer protection, I have already discussed why. Group members of my crew who have a good night's rest. The Council's Economic and Business Committee asked that consumer protection be kept in mind and done with all the work. This request and request was received very well, for all of us know what the situation today is. I may sound like a broken record when I say the next sentence: Now, a few years after a crash, there are still individuals and families in the country who are left with a painful forehead, who have successed in loans, the same type of loans as those that have been condemned by the same type of loans that have been condemned as in both regional and Supreme Courts, but too many of these individuals are not able to get their loans corrected only by taking their case for courts. It's completely annoying, a respectable president. In addition, it is worthy of note. A financial and business committee, but it was not. A member of the committee I spoke to, and I received permission from the source to mention this, has been investigating financial laws. In this context, it is also entirely possible to be a good guide to the interests of consumers in that work. I got it. I got it. We must not see the same situation again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u7	V.E.G. President. For various reasons, food demand has increased, both in the present and in the future, in the world. There is, of course, one major reason for population growth, and more such factors as increased prosperity in developing countries, which include increasing market prices. But something else is involved in the lack of land space and water in many areas. In Iceland, we are so blessed with the quality of life that water is not scarce and land is good. We will discuss the true value and the way it comes from. Where's the demand, and what sells? Happily, most people now seem to be aware that there must be an context between real valuable creations and paper profits. Man's basic needs are always needed, as food production must be one of the basics of our small economy, and there seems to be more and more of an interest in this world's basic work. Food production is clearly linked with increasing tourism to the country, where food culture and good raw materials are increasingly used. If it is not based on domestic agricultural products, it would be used little to avoid offering Icelandic products and commercial products. It is important for each nation to build on its own traditions to develop toward the future and to promote advancement. All the countries and states that we compare with ourselves in support of our own agricultural product through toll protection are not the interests of consumers to weaken national food production through increased import or to rely on food import alone. Hence, countries make agreements about certain products. Yet, the vast majority of agricultural products are exported without customs. These include flour and corn, pasta, rice, sugar, food oil, and fruit. Once you have fully filled toll, you need to pay for such exports, such as for the European Union. For that, 300 bucks have to be paid. per kilogram. You see, this works in both directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u8	A respectable president. In the United States, tourism is one of the main growths in Iceland. Many have rightly claimed that we are really at a critical time in this regard. Today, as in the summer months a few years ago, the number of tourists in normal winters is huge. There is no policy, and there is no hope for the future. We're here at the council with a number of issues involving nature protection and tourism and the important magnet. The management of the work programme, the environment and transport committee, is being discussed by the Economic and Business Committee. The approach is a fictitious device, and the danger remains, that we drift away. The early natural rights bill is discussed, the infrastructure of tourism, nature protection laws, the Landsnet system, a frame plan, a national structure is also in the tubes, but all these factors have one or another mode of environmental protection and have potential impact on the face of the country. The hour is now, and the need for a complete view is now. We really need harmony and determination. But what we live here is a lack of perspective and lack of a job management. It's awkward, and it's embarrassing for the government and for the government, regardless of political or material goals, but worse still, there are so much value here, land, nature, and a powerful profession, the shape of the country, and the image of the industry, all at stake, but no one has a perspective. In fact, this matter is symbolic of government helplessness and lack of direction, and it is a test of ability or impotence, and the results are in place. This task is not being handled by the majority of the forward - looking and independent groups, and this is a very serious matter. It is essential that a long - term schedule be established in this category, as well as to take action to cope with any emergency problems. This requires synchronity and solidarity. Is that possible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u9	A respectable president. Yesterday, I carried the news of the tickets all around the country, where small boats double-loaded on the same day, tugs, and large lineboats on every bottom and deep. Today's morning paper reports that the size of the Norwegian - American silhouette population is not 3.5 million tons, as the International Oceanographic Council has calculated, but 6.2 million tons. According to the Fish News, Norwegian fishermen and inventors have long challenged the methodology of fishermen on this population, or since its beginning with less years after 2009. They have felt that the trunk was considerably larger than scientists believed, since they have proposed a fishing advice for the year 2015. It all sounds familiar. Seamen and builders want to catch more, believing that much more is in the water. Wise men, scientists agreed to listen to experienced sailors. I don't know if they were bored, at least because of the fact that the fishermen in Norway and the sailors came together and organized one of the best research expeditions to this point in the Norwegian-iscian spawn and had gone on several Norwegian fishing ships. The aim of the expedition was to measure the silencing population in the way fishermen and fishermen considered best. The result? The evidence indicates that more than three million tons, much less than three million pounds [3 million kg], were measured. Can we Icelanders, and then Icelandic scientists, learn something from this now that the cod scheme is as fishermen say, and the catch figures confirm? Is it not the time, then, for seamen's words to pay attention? At present, I hope that there will be some results in fishing at the fishermen, or something's wrong. Fishists must listen to the voices of those who have been around Iceland for tens of years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u10	A respectable president. It's been a year since a possible purchase from taxpayers of alleged tax fraud began. Since then, the secretary of finance has been driven by public discussion to agree, at least In part, some action in this situation, but still no Congress has come from the Minister to enable humans to do so. First of all, there is no clear legal authority to buy and use these data in Icelandic courts, such as driving. paritaprevir Brins the Brynjar of Níelsson has pointed out, and strangely, at the height. A minister has not already taken that law to the council when it is declared by a number of members of the government stand that the case will be paid a special way when he finally brings it. Secondly, there is no funding to buy the funds from the Senate and it's not yet attended by the secretary of finance. Third, the thing I haven't heard from the Minister is that a tax investigator who now operates on temporary projects that he had funded to provide funds for the staff needed to process these data. There's nothing here in a council case from the highest level. The secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson's office to collect funds so that an tax investigator would have enough money to process the data to be bought. This isn't the first time I've ever called after this talk. Now you must ask, "Why does it delay? " The secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson's feet in this matter of the tax industry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u11	A respectable president. Lately, the comments made by former minister of foreign affairs of the European Union of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson. It is interesting to look at the home page of the former Minister and read answers he is sending in a master student in Europe. In part, he says that Iceland is better off outside EU common fishing policy, that we have no business there. Of the currency, he says, among other things, that the currency business is in its nature and structure of the problem, requiring certain basics that have not gone by and that the system has failed. The economic system is fundamentally weak. For years, people have observed that the late and under-reaching responses of EU executives in this field, the EU authorities have demanded that the taxpayers pay the bill for money owners. If Iceland were a party to Europe, we would be in the same position as the Greeks. He claims, the former minister, that we should look to other currency activities than the European Union. He says that Germany has imposed on the European Union's perimeter cuts in social services, an increase in taxes in vain. And he's going on. It is asked if Iceland is better placed in the European Union or in such an international relationship. Basically, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson agrees but that under the present circumstances the EU must dress up for bridges before it is considered that Iceland has any business in it. The currency business is in chaos, political paraphernalia is involved, foreign policy organization is inequities and inaccessible. These are the judges of our former secretary of state, one of the United States Directors. On the island, he also says that the Italians lost their letter. [[The president calls.]] I wish for the chairman of the United States to respond to this. Does he agree with our former minister of foreign affairs, Jón Hannibalsson Baldvin?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I know well how Jón Baldvin, son of Hannibalsson, viewed Europe, worked with him when he recommended an EEA contract here in this hall. I can agree with Jón Hannibalsson Baldvin that Iceland is not coming to the European Union in the near future. He is there expressing a reaction to two issues, of course, the policy of the present government, which does not have its policy order to continue with the case and, on the other hand, that in the European Union, there are a number of complex solutions following a financial crisis. We are also dealing with complex solutions following a financial crisis. However, co-ordinated is, I think, the health of Iceland and the interests of the European Union that the solution must be to work on the basis of the European Union. The European Union has paid huge benefits to Iceland, and the Icelandic economy is unrecognizable today from what was 1990. Interestingly, even the Greek secretary of finance gives a warning that the solution may be thought to be to withdraw from the European conspiracy and warn against what they will do about it, Fascism, resolution, and an endless political conflict of people. There is a real danger in all European countries, including Iceland. The fundamental route must be to build on the European accordion and approach matters based on actual interest evaluations and evaluations of the situation. Nothing upsets the estimates made in 2012 by the Secret Bank that the euro is the most suitable currency in Iceland. It is worth reminding that two Baltic States have since that report was written to the euro, and the result has been very good for those countries. True, there are problems in Greece, as well as problems in Iceland, when Iceland coped with difficulties and needed emergency loans. [[The president calls.]] We went through it, and there was no need for us to have any sad predictions about it. We know exactly how we did it, we did well, and it was looked to as if this was a solution to the problems that were acceptable to Icelandic interests. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u13	A respectable president. I would like to draw attention to the fact that an agent of children sent a recent letter to the Minister of the Interior on the matter of child abuse. This letter, for example, discusses the content of reconciliation and the need for it to be available for children who have committed crimes. I take my heart to the importance of reconciliation. I have personally experienced this methodology and was hoping that the use would be spreading. However, when further research is made, it seems that in recent years, such provisions have furthered. A project for reconciliation began here in 2006. A battle sharing is based on ideologies of wholesome justice and includes striving to reconcile between wrongdoing and wrongdoing. A solution to minor cases is made to the individuals themselves who have the potential for more rapid treatment. At the same time, the prosecution is under attack. A communication service is considered especially suitable for children and young people, since they have to face the consequences of their behavior and correct their wrongdoing. Such practices are generally considered to be far more beneficial in promoting and cultivating beneficial effects than traditional punishments. So it is clear that reconciliation is the best option for children's interests and rights, and the United Nations Child - Court Committee has specifically encouraged Member States to use measures based on wholesome justice. The sender of children raises a question to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the use of reconciliation for children in recent years and a vision of the future. I think there's good reason for you to know the answers to the General and Education Committee. A minister in due course, seeking further information if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u14	V.E.G. President. In my words last night about the annual celebration of Isa ohf. was a little inaccurate. They could be understood that in Icelandic musicians 16 million had gone to them, but it is natural that 2 million of the total expenses of the 16 million annual celebrations were available to them. But I'm not going down, because it's not appropriate for an official firm to pay 16 million for the annual observance of his employees. But I was going to come up here to talk about one positive report of a number of Icelandic careers. It was a real pleasure to hear that Icelandic food has now made an indiscriminate agreement with the Icelandic state and on the farm is a company on Smokejanes, which will provide 50 people work and produce 3 you. tons of pink for export. This is a company number two on Smokeynes, which uses the loss of Smokejanes activation for fish farming. But it has to be said that unlike it, on Smokeynes and in Reykjavík comes from the well - being of Hellish land, a demolition of Hellishing, to everyone's bother, and no one to benefit. It is drilled by an earthquake rather than by using this water to raise fish or plant plants that were slow to deal with it. To be honest, it is completely incomprehensible that the cost of activation should be taken without any use of what they have to offer. Another example is the energy of nature or the former energy supply of Reykjavík, which is the activation of the Nesja field. From there, hot water flows into Lake Þingvall, and we do not know how it works. It hasn't been investigated, but the waters flow from the nesavvalala activation unturned, worthless, of no benefit to all. There's got to be a better way to deal with this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u15	V.E.G. President. There has been talk of premeditated research clearances recently in the community and here at the council, now at the last part of this team today. I simply want to promote that it is not that pre-active research sources, if they are supported, and if any police possibility is increased, only to external danger, they are involved not only in terrorist research but also in the repairing of organized crime. There is one category of offenses that we have not managed to maintain sufficiently in our arms, i.e. fractures related to the man-saltor. We're pretty alert to the premeditated evidence. Still, we need to sit over that subject and see if it is working at its height. The Minister of State has said that the Ministry has already begun trying to determine exactly what is involved, to benefit us, and to try to approach that subject with an open mind. We need to examine ourselves to see if such sources can help us in our fight against a human dealer. This too was made clear that instead of discussing premeditated research documents, we should discuss domestic violence. I agree with that. We're here to talk about domestic violence. We should try to look for ways to strengthen the legal sources in order to deal with them. That is an enormous task. For the council, members of Congress are involved in domestic violence. The General Committee examined matters specifically during the last session and has intended to strengthen the law in a certain way in this regard. I got it. I got it. Congress to monitor the plans for which the current police officer in the capital area, the office, is engaged in domestic violence, but the plans were implemented by the South's police with excellent success and are being developed even further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u16	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is answer it. The last speaker, anyway. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir Kons Councilddóttir, by pointing her to my speech that I delivered yesterday on premeditated research grounds and on the priorities of the police's affairs of that subject. Second, I would like to refer to a very good speech from which to speak. paritaprevir Passed to the Guðrún Helgadóttir she moved here yesterday for e-mailing with the police, and particularly with their encryption, or rather lack of evidence. The lack can be read from the answer that came from the highest source. Minister of Justice to the inquiry that the person here requested at the time of the publication of evidence was sent by e-mail. Third, I want to continue the subject as a subject. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir spoke of yesterday, about computer security and Internet security, public security, especially with the police. The safety issues of these days and premeditated research warrants are widely discussed for various reasons, increasing authority from various sources, and reviewing these issues in order to improve safety. All right. I don't have enough time to go back and more on that matter, rather, I'd like to point out that there's a blind spot in security in Iceland, that blind spot is Internet security. The management board has all the most delicate information on the citizens of this country, perhaps beyond their love life. The Kingdom is the center of health care and much more. So it is very important that public security is in order to maintain a good grip on it or to protect the proper rights of the citizens in order to leave these data alone. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a general tendency in people to think that the Internet security is okay in the world, that computer technology has gone that far. It's not. In 2014, there was one of the most terrible years in computer security from the beginning. These issues are getting worse here on land as well as on a global scale. It is important that we handle them, not necessarily with increasing sources - and not by increasing sources, but by reducing the spirit of complacency and stressing the fact that online security is in order. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Council members of the Council usually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u17	V.E.G. President. Ever since I first entered the Allied Council of Iceland as a senator, I have resolved to act humbly and respectfully toward all those working there, members of the council as well as members of the council. I simply do so because I feel that after watching politics and sharing in them, it is the best way to succeed in making the nation more successful. It is our job to reach the national government to examine all ways that may increase prosperity and progress in our society. To that end, there must be a material, enlightened community conversation and, most important, at the Council, where there are conflicting opinions. Sadly, more often than not the eternal character of the discussion of details and other urgent issues lies in the background. In Volume 8, according to the President's permission, the report of the General Assembly Committee, which discusses democratic discussions, says: ▪ The role of the Parliament is well understood by conservative Burke Burke when describing the council as a [-] single nation's meeting, guided by the collective interests of the entire body. In this regard, local requests or prejudices should be, not to dictate, but to the whole body's benefits, which can result from the careful planning of the entire body. The concept of a conversation is rooted in this ideal for the council as a basis for reasoning, which is primarily a matter of public interest. The aim of reasoning is to reveal a subject; hence, it must be based on information on facts and the one who uses sound reasoning earnestly endeavors to have what is true. One of the values of the political debate is to let the opposing viewpoints work, and it is the role of a government counterargument to test the exercise of government officials to sharpen arguments. V.E.G. President. For one thing, I want the committees to be taken care of for a discussion and payment at the Senate Hall, even though I disagree materially with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u18	A respectable president. Thank you for taking good care of the President. paritaprevir The Árni Páll the son of Árnason before asking that the Minister of Education be answered in the morning. It is because of the loan case, as the senator mentioned, and it is extremely important. As far as I'm concerned, thousands of people are receiving reports that they have significant financial responsibilities that were unknown to them. It is urgent that the minister can quickly erase any doubts about the matter. He wasn't here on Monday, as mentioned. I'd like the President to confirm by the President as soon as possible to the secretary of this request so that we may know that this will happen tomorrow morning. It is important to explain this matter quickly and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u19	The president cannot guarantee the highest power. Secretary of education will be here in the morning. The president has taken care of that and found out about it. Minister has an alibi today. The President is not clear when it's the highest. A minister will be present again at the council, but as the president mentioned, and he immediately responded, he will deliver this message to the highest degree. Minister. Then we'll see what happens later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A president for taking over this matter or ensuring that a minister can be here to answer about the loan fund. I have requested that the matter be recorded at once. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. We've discussed this matter before what's so special about it is that we established laws on responsible men for a short period of time. We set a set of rules about how to keep things, but this is a long time ago cleaning up and sending letters to people who have no chance of knowing anything about these responsibilities, and they are going after even the dead pay back the loans. We care about the loan money, but I think we're gonna have to try to make sure that the loan account goes by the new rules and cancels these responsibilities. It's our job at the council to handle this matter. Those who took the loan should bear the responsibility, not descendants long thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u21	A respectable president. The reason I decided to request this discussion is Castlight's discussion, at least twice in the past year, of the subjects of prisoners who have had a serious mental disorder that he was saved in solitary confinement for a long time but that can be considered healthy for several people. I have previously adopted this matter at a council meeting and received the answers from the former Minister of the Interior that the matter is being handled. I had trouble believing that it could happen in our country that no man was kept in solitary rooms for over two months, but I'm sure. The history of this man in the mental - health system is long, and it has been saved many times in a mental - health ward. He's got a lot of delusions. He's become arson of Atta and Little Lava, and he's considered dangerous to himself and to others. He spent months in solitary confinement on Little Pass without Psychological Support. A mental - health aid last year showed that there were no permanent treatments for this man when he finished his sentence, but he has been saved to a mental ward. The fact is, the European Council's so - called torture committee, which examines the condition of prisons at a few years apart, reports a new report that there was repeated mention of a problem of mental health care in a prisoner here but nothing has happened. A recent report has reasoned that this situation, which remains, is a violation of human rights. In the report published in May, 2013, an agent reasoned that a mentally ill man convicted of a criminal offense may be consigned to a national penal prison that may be the result of a violation of 1 mgr. 68. g. The constitution and Article 3. At least, the European Convention of Human Rights, if not guaranteed by appropriate medical care. In general, from these articles, a mental - health guard or a prison staff should be brought to a mental - health ward in a hospital or a special psychiatric ward. Two. Section 16. As 1 Corinthians 15: 33 says, "the law of the law of the law of the Christ is the law of the Christ, and the law of the Christ is the law of the Christ. " mg, it may be decided in a court of justice that the defendant should take out his sentence in the Agency. As long as there is no special institution for the mentally ill, but still a criminal criminal, otherwise saved to a penal prison, prison authorities in this country must make sure that in each case, a prisoner, despite his condition, is insured to be saved. It was the conclusion of an agent less than two years ago that such provisions would not be ruled out as inhuman or disrespectful treatment of those who are severely ill. According to law, a prison agency may allow a prisoner to be saved temporarily or throughout the duration of the sentence in a medical facility or clinic. Thus, legal rights are not limited to the detriment of prisoners in a medical facility where he can be given the special treatment needed for mental illness. It was therefore the firm stand of an agent that there is an urgent reason to reevaluate the environment of mental - health services at Little Lague. An agent directed them to the Ministry of Health, Minister of Internal Affairs, and Prison Affairs that when necessary, the necessary measures would be made to put a mental - health service in the prison of Little prison to the point where there can be no doubt that those prisoners who need it receive the proper care according to the constitution and law and under conditions that would be in agreement with their condition and needs. Hence, the question is: What has been done in the less than two years since the writing of an agent's report? What is the situation today? Is there a psychiatrist working at Little Laundromat? How is the mental health of prisoners in the capital area presently being treated? So has this lesson been learned and made necessary following the soon two years of counsel? Of course, most of these matters involve the human rights of the individuals involved. Then there's another one of the things I might be more comfortable with in my second speech here, which concerns the general safety of citizens and police in the country that, unfortunately, is the sad example of responding when it can lead to a crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for filming this case here. The subject of mental prisoners is a difficult group and likely one of the most difficult we can cope with. These are delicate issues that we need to work to resolve with the resources we have, but this requires effort and effort to provide the relief that we now need. It also takes very specialized knowledge and experience to help these people. So I'm going straight to answer a question. The senator for the state of Little prison based on mental examination is now not a psychiatrist at Little-Run. As some may know, it has been difficult and difficult to get a mental - health professional, and that is something we are going to the Ministry. We recently held a meeting, myself and a health minister, on these serious health issues, on both the health of prisoners and on those of other mental health issues that are not relevant to those in that situation but that are so weak that they need special treatment. We are now putting increased energy on that job. It's hard for me to say why things have taken time, it sometimes wants to be that way. Sadly, these cases have taken too long, but they are not. In accordance with the laws for the full punishment, prisoners should enjoy comparable health services, as well as the specific health care that the law and the rules for prisoners are required. Basic health - care services in government prisons are generally considered to be well - intentioned and cared well for by the appropriate health institutions of the Ministry of Health. However, the mental - health services in prisons have become official criticism, and the situation today is basically this. They are now putting increased energy on the job to look for resources for these individuals, e.g. by ensuring the availability of mental health care professionals by ensuring that no mental - health professional is working on Little-Run, does not need to be mentioned. We are just as worried about it as others are, of course, a situation that is inadvisable as we need to find a solution. We are talking about prisoners who are seriously ill and the services they need and who have tried to provide criticism. We need to ensure that more specialized measures are being provided. As an option, they will be saved in the new prison at Hólmshön, but it is also considered to prepare a special situation for them in the current custody wing of Little Lava, that there will be a special unit when Hólmshök gets into effect, but the final decision has not been made. There is also a viewpoint that needs other and more specialized measures than how these organizational procedures are being handled must be handled, as we know what will happen to the prison in Hólmski. You're right next door. A member of the U.S. Senate agency pointed out that a 2013 report suggests that the possibility of saving a severely depressed patient in prison, at least if a prisoner is not guaranteed for proper medical care, may almost be considered a violation of 1 mg. 68. g. The constitution and, like, whatnot. A senator mentioned, Article 3. European Convention of Human Rights. Of course, we must look at their comments, and we do. However, in this regard it is proper to draw attention to the fact that it is not a prison authority to decide whether a prisoner should be saved to a mental ward or not. If a person is sentenced to illegal prisons, the law applies to the completion of the sentence, which is then a medical assessment of psychiatrists whether it is proper to save a mentally ill prisoner in a mental ward or whether the service can be performed in prison. The legal requirement is to temporarily save prisoners in a medical facility for the entire period of punishment. We must establish the agreement between the State Department of State, on the basis of our duty to the full punishment, and the Ministry of Health on the constant limit, as well as the interaction between psychiatrics, and that is the case with individuals who need to be punished for their full - time judgments. The important thing to me is that prisoners get the medical care they need and we have to give it. Severe psychiatric prisoners have the right to receive appropriate medical care in a medical facility or in a prison facility with a special staff. That is the challenge, and now it is our turn to find some ways to fulfill it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u23	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For this very important discussion, it is fundamental that sick people are entitled to health care and should not, of course, have to say that regardless of the diseases affected by prisoners, they are not to have to be said. Iceland is a member of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. In 2007, we joined the Convention of Human Rights in 2007 and the Supreme Court. The Minister of the State is working to validate it, but it states that if disabled persons are somehow deprived of freedom, the Member States shall guarantee that human rights are guaranteed in accordance with international human rights laws and treatments consistent with the objectives and principles of the agreement as well as that Member States should provide the medical services needed and particularly because of their disability. This is not done by the Icelandic government, so we are violating human rights in cases of mental illness. It is extremely serious that the European Council's torture committee made serious comments to prisoners'mental - health services, and this has not been reformed, despite the comments. It's pointed out that this spells even. Because within the administration, there is an inconsistencies of who is responsible for providing mental - health services and the kind of service they should receive and who should pay for it. Of course, it's not acceptable, so I want to make the most of it. A minister to handle these matters in a good way and to set them straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u24	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. This is an old and persistent problem that is intolerable that has not been adequately solved and a stain on our society and the obvious violation of human rights. As a perfunctory brought upon them, governments have received a reminder, including a reminder. from the European Parliament's torture committee, as well as from the Generals' report, in the report of Little-Reute 2013. We watch that there will be some refinements with the construction of a new prison and, as it were, the restoration of the Department of Justice would have helped, but more is needed. Clearly, there has been tension between prison authorities and the health - care system on how to solve this problem. The amount of money is missing in both places, but there is conflict about who should minister. There is a conflict of opinion as to what kind of service to be offered and who should pay for it. Clearly, governments must stand out there and handle the matter, thus setting things straight. It has been observed that this service has been provided through the medical system at Little Lague, but now no psychiatrist will take care of it at this time. The tension I was describing has often been described as saying: They are serving punishment, they are not unconvinced, and hospitals are not prisons. But it has also been observed that the amount of human beings and the education of the Little Passion need to be reinforced so that people are better prepared to cooperate with those who have a mental disorder. But I think the only way is the highest. The minister mentioned, it is to set up a special medical unit in which these people, who are I to understand from only four to five a year, can serve under the medical system, and that is a court order that they should serve in that facility, will have a safe health care and security at the time of their penalties. Whether or not this department is located at Little-Reun, New Prison, or in the context of the Department of Justice, I'm going to leave a minister to look at. [[The president calls.]] I encourage him, and I believe it is safe to say that there will be a great deal of support to resolve the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u25	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for starting this important discussion. It is estimated that about 10 to15% of the prisoners around the world have serious mental disorders. However, these figures vary somewhat from country to country, and these factors have been shown in various studies that as mental - health admissions increase, the number of people going to prison in cases of mental illness has been reduced. It has also been shown that when health care has not been available for mental - health professionals, the number of prisoners has increased. In this country, there has been considerable criticism of the indecision that has taken place because of offenders who have a serious mental disorder. It has been suggested that resources for these individuals are desperately lacking. This failure is not new, and the situation has lasted for quite some time. It is not difficult to find news that is far back in time on these matters. It also shows how important it is to try to solve them. According to a speech, it's the highest. The Minister of the state is truly trying to find a solution for the work done by the State Department and the Ministry of Health. Official criticism has shown that there are some who feel that these wrongdoers do not belong in the mental wards of hospitals. In addition, this criticism has shown that they should not be imprisoned if there are no options that would suit them because of their illness. Looks like there's some kind of tension. V.E.G. The local minister, Ólöf Nordal, made a good explanation of the position in his speech. It should therefore be noted that understanding is that there is a need for improvement in the ministry and that there are special provisions for this group of prisoners, a service that is not being served in the country's prisons today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u26	President. I'd like to thank you very much for discussing this subject which is very important to promote here at the council. Before this discussion began, I studied what has happened since the last time, and I'm afraid that has happened very little. I noticed a story from 20 February 2014, a year ago, where it turns out that no doctor is in Little-Sun, and then he hadn't done it in the last half of the year. In October 2013, U.S. Manager Generals published a report encouraging health benefits to prisoners. I want to agree with other members of Congress. It is very important that the newest. The Minister of the state will handle these matters firmly and if I could ask the members of the side room to stop interrupting the minister so that he can listen to my speech. I challenge the highest. Minister to make a good impression on this case party. It doesn't take much to fix this. This is a violation of human rights among a very sensitive group of people, and it has repeatedly been observed that individual rights are probably not the same human rights as others, and then we should not speak of violations of human rights, such as human rights. micro-punching. But I find it so typical, it's so easy to overlook basic human rights in a perimeter. I know it's the highest. The Minister of the Interior has all manner of growth and certain desire to fix this, so I want to encourage the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u27	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for bringing up this important subject. We on a board of directors have a good deal of discussion on the subjects of prisoners and, however, mainly on the matters of education because the subjects of the prisoners are in our field. We made a trip last year, at Little Man's, and we studied the operation there, and we looked at how the equipment is. Of course, it is very beneficial for us who are working at the council to take such trips to see how the ministry is being performed. It is clear that in terms of a prisoner with a mental disorder, work is being done. We need to improve the way we carry out our ministry, and it was good to hear the minister's will in this regard. But it is clear that this calls for cooperation between prison authorities and health authorities because, of course, these issues are being heard on both sides. In many cases, when it comes to issues that are under more than one department, they often become more difficult. I really hope that it will not be here, I hope that the partnership will be as anointed as possible because it is quite clear that we need to respond and remain sooner and later. It will then be interesting to observe the way this service will be built up in the new prison, but there is always a need for much cooperation because this requires special knowledge and professional health professionals to work on these issues in cooperation with prison authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for filming this important matter. New rods sweep best, and I hope that a new Minister of the Interior will respond to this release. I would also like to arrange for this discussion of the comments we have received about young criminals and the comments made by an agent on the field of health care for prisoners. This is especially the case with mentally ill prisoners, where the systems need to talk. However, it is fundamental that this is the responsibility of prison authorities, the responsibility of the State Department, because men are sentenced to save in prison. There is not a complete thought in a system where you are saved for 15 years in a mental - health ward, where you have the huge amount of mental - health care that is needed, and then you have to go to the same state of state for another government agency in prison for three years where very limited mental - health services are present, when, in fact, you need something more mental - health care. Once he has completed his sentence in prison, the same system of men will be reassigned to a mental - health ward, where he will receive much better health care. It cannot continue to penetrate the system year by year, causing us to get numbers from the torture committee as well as the General Agent. This requires a new minister, and he has full support for it from all categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. The advisor for bringing this up, as well as the highest. Minister for accessing this discussion. It's one of the issues that make a big difference here at the council, and we don't talk in different directions. However, there is also the possibility of being appointed by a minister, and this case requires that this be met with the situation that we face. Icelandic society has actually received guidance from two carriers on such matters, one from the torture board and the other from an agent, as mentioned in the past. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, as well as other members of the council, so what needs to be done or what the guidance is for those who have the responsibility to monitor the views below, human rights, and normal service to those who live in destabilization and severe mental illness. However, no one has yet mentioned in this discussion what I find almost obvious to have to do, that is to gather quickly all the people who have knowledge of the category, which is always a bit of a challenge when talking about issues that will cut both government and institutions, i.e. to immediately begin some form of conversational or consultation with those most familiar with, and including I would especially like to mention Haraldur Erlendsson, who had a 20% position at Little-Real now the last time the situation was conceived, with the goal of reaching out for teamwork around this project. This is a specialization not only for prisons but also for health care that it is the only approach I would consider to be correct but also for the minister to find a successful solution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u30	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that's been conducted here, and I'd like to start by saying something first. The senators Unnur Brá of the Konráðsdóttir and Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and this is about cooperation and teamwork to solve these issues. You need to cooperate between recruitment and institutions, and you need to be flexible, there's no one solution. You may need to find a solution in each case, and you may need a team to handle these issues. I would also like to consider the prisoners who do not have the most serious problem, those who simply need less service from day to day, for as a boy. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, on February 18, is a reminder of one of the most important objectives of imprisonment. Prisoners need help on the way to reform; they need the opportunity to build themselves up by study or employment; but more often than not, they do not have to start with their mental - health services, for it is the basis for a prisoner's getting into the position of wanting or being able to participate in reforms. Just dealing with a mental disorder, mastering the habit of living with a mental illness can be a powerful reminder in itself, so we must not forget to take care of our problems because we are so busy with major tasks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u31	A respectable president. I have to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's turnout for taking for one point I wanted to mention, but it's very important. We need to realize that prisoners are a little special. Many things in the community afflict this group more than the public, whether mental illness or illiteracy, not necessarily mental disorders, but such things as hyperactivity, history of violence, addiction, and such. The percentage of all these parts is much higher in prisons. Like what? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's team came in, but we must also remember those prisoners who simply need psychological assistance, not necessarily a mental - health professional, but who may need medication to deal with such things as hyperactivity. There are two problems in the prison system I'd like to mention, but according to my sources, there are no drugs for e.g. Overactivity, perhaps for the obvious reason, that overactive drugs are generally addictive and generally abused in the community and as a result have many in prisons. Then there is psychiatry, or psychologists, who serve in prisons from a prison facility. The trust between those who enjoy the ministry and those who provide it is central to mental - health and psychological support. It is not possible for me to create this trust between a prisoner and a prison facility. Psychological services and mental - health services need to be independent from a prison facility if appropriate. This is not just a matter of creating a team and providing funding, although it is very important whether it is both, fundamentally, how we bring it out of the mind of the person with a mental disorder, whether or not the individual is a prisoner. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the discussion that's been conducted here, it's important, and the subjugated ones that have been received by my words. It's right next to the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister to set up a special ward in prisons, as is the case in other parts of the North countries, is simply that way. It's gonna cost us, it's like that, but that cost won't get too much. There is agreement in the council to resolve this matter, and we will find the funds needed in common. There is also the need to consider what happens to mental - health inmates after the end of the sentence. Farm planning is missing in general, especially for this group. There will also be more expensive provisions, more monitoring, and need extra outdoor care than these people, as others must have a home, should not live in a hospital. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister of the Interior to the importance of these materials. This size has been known for a long time, and it has taken too long to cope. Now you just have to spit on your hands and solve it. Our guide in this regard, the guide of our society, which we all agree on, is: Every human being is precious, and we need to act with that guidance. Then we'll solve it successfully. Thanks for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u33	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for this discussion and the best thing I can do for the members of the council in this difficult situation. It's certainly the kind of thing that makes sense, and I think this is the way to go on, looking for ways to get a special place inside the Little-Real for this operation. I think that we're finishing the jail on Hólmshökki, too, allowing us to look at these matters more accurately. I don't think so, or I don't want it to be misunderstood in my words that there's an inconsistencies on these matters, there's no disunition among us on the public side of them. It's just this connection that happened. paritaprevir Sóggis Svavarsdóttir came in earlier, and others have done something that needs to be done. We're connecting between mental health problems and then the punishment system. These are different blocks, but they need to connect on this project, and I have full faith that we will achieve that goal, and hopefully we will succeed at a reasonable time. I deeply appreciate the support I find in the council halls, but it is important when we continue to handle the matter. Only in general health care at national prisons, without me evaluating whether psychologists should be from a prison facility or whether it's better in any other way, it's essential that we show that there's a psych office at Little-Large twice a week. There's doctors coming to Little Man six or eight times a month. There are nurses at Little-Reute a few times a week, so public health care is what I think I'm doing pretty well. But in the special service we are talking about here, we need to do better. We must not let it happen to us that we do not look upon those who are so painfully bound.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u34	Mr. President. We continue a discussion on bill to legalize a change in financial law. This bill includes a change in the law on work permit, risk management, high-risk commitments, remuneration, holdings and personal funds, to name something. This bill is certainly strengthening the order of the financial system, and someone could say that it could be said that when the banks turned around and the entire economy in the country was subjected to efforts to restore it. Then, of course, there were great weaknesses in our Icelandic financial system. They have not yet come as needed to prevent such a thing from happening again. In this bill, we are talking about adjusting our legal environment to the European Union's work on financial markets based on the so - called Basel III standards, which include financial requirements for finance. This principle of the European Union is an arrangement and is not included in the EEA regulations we are involved in. It is about our constitution that we bring or take over national power. We do not have the authority to hand it over. It is now being met by trying to set up a more strict system for building the financial system on a more solid foundation than ever. It's interesting, I think, that there's nothing to do with understanding the business banks and investment banks and thus preventing the potential hazard paid by investment banks from going all the way into the traditional business banks. When we're talking about our financial system, what went wrong, how we can prevent this from happening again, we need to look to see if there are no other ways and other options we could look into and infiltrate this country. Then I'm talking about financial services. Many have mentioned to me that we left green, which are a environmentally friendly category, to support a bank that showed community responsibility for environmental and sustainable development. I think it would be to make up for the silly ones in the country. We have three large banks and savings, but I believe that the bank would improve, which would guide not only looking to the interest rates and high interest requirements for shareholders but also to have social responsibility and environment at the top of the page. In this connection, I would like to call attention to three Norwegian banks that received the Northern Council's natural and environmental prize in 2010, i.e. Merkur Andlovesse, Ekobanken and Cultura Bank. They were rewarded for green and sustainable policy. For one thing, in support of a judicial committee, it says by permission of the president: The banks have been on the road to investments in sustainable projects, building all their work on this. Their entire operation is based on green values and they work to make society sustainable. Therefore, they are examples to other members of the capital business. The 2010 theme of the Prize for Nature and Environment was green capital management. This may sound strange to many, but this is what these banks have worked for, and other banks can, of course, be exemplary. This prize was given to a Norwegian company, an institution, a polycenter, or an individual who had been in the lead and had an effect, directly or indirectly, on the financial market and integrated, which said sustainable and environmental and community responsibility in finance. This may have seemed some years or decades ago, and it may not have completely fallen into a financial institution, but fortunately the trend is in this direction. I believe that Iceland and I were quite able to imitate this, so we could have such a motivation inside a bill that would encourage the goals we would have there. One thing that stabs me in this bill is that a bonus is being opened again, but another word is now used for a bonus. The bill speaks of working conditions and remuneration. I think people are avoiding the words of buyers and peasants who have a bad reputation in front of a crash, where everything goes crazy in the shops and offers from middle managers and executives of our financial companies. Sadly, when faced with a trial, the person did not live up to the right of a high purchase bar or a petition. Sadly, their responsibility did not follow that outcome. In 2010 it was established by the then government to cover variable remuneration, we can call it a bonus or a bonus for executives, never to exceed 25% of a fixed salary. There's been a lot of pressure on raising this roof, it all seems to be back in spinning in the direction that everything should go on a full trip back to the greedy atmosphere that reigned here before a collapse. I think it's a lot to be confused if you're real enough to believe that the public in this country is looking up without denying it and criticizing that they're going back to start with a bonus. By doing so, I feel that if financial institutions plan to go on this road, with a short period of time since the collapse, the number of people living in the country who are fighting for an improvement in terms of success. A head head should offer a decent salary in these companies, but they should not follow any examples abroad in large private companies where there is a chance of making a lot of money during the day and grilling at night. We know that they are trying to achieve the lowest wage in the next three years up to 300 grand, which would definitely be just subsidies. I think those at the top of these financial companies may consider the $300 change in regard to an even higher sum of money when it comes to bonuses. The people of the country are facing the challenge of being able to live at 214 levels. K. The minimum wage today and the pay goes up to 300 yards. K. in the next three years. This is not the ideal place for anyone to share in this society. I think we're there now that we should try to learn from the bitter experiences of the collapse and start to have some kind of a sign between the hulas in society, increase the equation, and let this little nation divide together, not pull apart, as it seems to be the policy of these issues. It really stings me to see in this bill that I'm walking back into this path with full force. I'd like to say, in the end, that there are certainly some factors that are being dealt with, although people are being very careful about these matters, e.g. With regard to success loans, about opening up again, increasing their value in loans to those who do not earn the same amount. During discussions earlier on the job of the council, there was trouble. A senator took note, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, that she rather resented this and directed it to his fellow members on a financial and business committee to examine specifically what course we were going to take about re-opening a success loan based on the bitter experience that society and creditors had from those loans after the collapse. There's a lot of work to do. I think there's a lot more to go around here than I think it's going to take. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island for the story in this case. As mentioned in the bill, this work is strengthening financial management and activities so that, by nature, you should not disagree with that. There is an improvement in the quality of your own resources, support of internal and external checks. At the same time, however, you are concerned that it is also a matter of how you can strengthen your access to money so that, as happened at the time, you are not contributing to the increased commitment of your households. What was interesting, and after what happened, the question is, Is this a long way? I heard what it was like. A senator said she didn't think so. Is this enough to make sure you don't have another shock? Then I'm also wondering about the status of bail and his responsibilities. There is still a verbal agreement that the government fund guarantees the depositor of Icelandic banks. I'd like to hear about these two things, but especially about the shoppers. It was known in its time that banks used their very aggressive purchases, such as those in banks. calling people, pointing out that they would not get enough money, suggesting that they put them in stocks, so to speak, shopping stocks instead of being on safe deposit accounts. Many lost quite a bit of weight, but for this, a petition was made, i.e. They were asked to sell the product. The same was true of those who sold life insurance. One teller took on a phone call and got a bonus at the same time he did collections and desks without getting a bonus. Last night's discussion quoted this bonus system as being just like in the fish industry. I know why. A senator knows well there. [[The president calls.]] Does she agree that this is the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u36	A respectable president. Yeah, I think this bill, of course, is a step in the right direction. Even if a person steps back in another word, he is involved in a series of caution requirements and other matters about monitoring the banks and their activities. I think it's quite enough work to work at the Economic and Business Committee to run this bill through and give you a tip that can make things right. As I understand it, those who wrote the bill are already having doubts, they believe that there are many knots that can be added to these issues. With regard to the insurance fund, I believe that deposit and deposit need to be made much better and to show that what happened before a crash will not happen again. In terms of bonuses and proposals, I believe that an Icelandic society is so burned up that it does not accept it. If these are to go through and look at social responsibilities, if banks are to share the terms of the nation and the huge profits the banks have made, what will be the result? The cost is good if he uses the entire community, not just the number of people in danger. Then there is the new level of growth, services, and so forth, to reduce the cost of the commercial trader. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u37	V.E.G. President. I was wrong when I spoke of yesterday's fishing work, which was quoted by the sailors. They get paid for their performances and they only have insurance. Is that the way the bank business is supposed to be? I'd like to mention, too, because I was wondering about it at the time, that it was so that if you made big business contracts or contracts on the tables in the banks, they got a percentage of them in their own pocket. This led to making all kinds of agreements that were not necessarily well thought - out, but at the same time, it could well have been that this agreement would have fallen in six months or six months, while a person observed the proposals. At the same time, at the Bank of Lands, we experienced that there was a substantial contribution on the service tables and on all the work in public banking, which was eaten up by the stock market levels. That made it possible for all public bankers to accept it. [[The president calls.]] Does this system ever work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u38	No, I don't think it's working. There's always time for it to collapse in some way. The question is, How far would it be if people were to drive it exactly the same way? The tremendous hazard struggle had come to deceive the elderly to bring money between accounts in order to believe that they would gain more than their fruits or invest in stocks that would burn up in the collapse. There are no financial rules and increased monitoring if these items are not addressed; these risks are not to be withdrawn once and for all by strict rules. [[The president calls.]] Of course, other concretes would be very serious for national preparations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her fine speech. I share with her doubts that humans are going the right way by making the changes presented here. What might really bother me most is the Rapporteurs, i.e. to make a decision here that the Rapporteurs are now expected to agree, in fact, limited which means they can't go up to 100◯20% like general employees but they can go up to 25%. I just want to hear what we're talking about. A senator will think of this. As we have today, the Rapporteurs are internal reviews, the Order Guards and the Risk Management Board are excluded from being associated with proposals, but now to change this so that they can get up to 25%, like administration. This is what worries me, and I want to hear what's happening. A senator will think of this. At the same time, I'd like to hear a few words. A senator because at the top of a page. 30 of the report on this bill says that there is a very strict set of rules that we have so far established on these proposals that can impair the competition of Icelandic financial companies. I find this somewhat remarkable, especially in view of the fact that we are here with a currency head and all sorts of cover-ups around the Icelandic financial market, which is derived from other rules that are directly relevant to our currency. I wanted to hear what it was. A senator thought so. Does it seem that this is of any importance in this large context?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u40	A respectable president. I'll start with that as long as possible. A senator later mentioned the competitive status of Icelandic bank workers and the executives of foreign bank workers if they did not enjoy the same people who serve abroad. I think it's a hell of a long way to go if you're going to aim at it. All I'm saying is, "Frivel Frans." It may be irresponsible, but I think it's innocentr than many other things that should require more responsibility. If any bankers around here think they're better off paying off somewhere abroad with a fat bonus, I think there's plenty of qualified staff who could do their part and not have a dollar mark in their eyes. That's my opinion. I don't think it's normal for patrol members, such as orderliness, internal Affairs and other employees who agree, those who play this vital role, to work for a bonus or a bonus. There's a lot of talk about firewalls in between. There should be no carrots in the relationship that could lead to some temptation in these matters, i.e. may result in a loss of therapeutic effect. It was foretold that the bank's own entertainment committees had a higher level of activity than those under rule, that it was more important to have strong entertainment committees than to further the regulations that would have been required on the part of banks to place much more weight on and money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u41	A respectable president. I think there's a lot of stuff in this bill, though, that's okay. There is something else that will improve, but these may be factors that are most troubling us and me. I feel that the report compares with what this is in the North countries and what the European Union's Directive says about this, but I think the physical evidence is missing why internal reviews and other such organisations, regulations and risk management are under this petition. I think it's important when you start working on the Committee to deal with the situation. Consider, too, the competitive status of Icelandic financial companies in the large context. If I were a minister of finance, I'd be more concerned about the fact that we were with the Icelandic crown in currency than about the presence or absence of a bonus system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u42	Mr. President. It was interesting to me that in the bill, the lack of intensive surveillance within the financial system and governance has led to high risk in banks, the failure of banks, and the development of systematic problems in Europe. However, a paper with the bill does not mention the human factor that led to all of this. It was not just a rule of order, it was the human factor, the immorality, and not to forget evil ideologies, greed, and irresponsibility. I think we have every opportunity to run a powerful bank here if we want to. They can make a lot of money, but they're supposed to go more to society and to the consumers in this community. That is why I have looked at banks, such as those in the North countries that I mentioned in my talk, which are guided by environmental and social responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a demand for a bank like that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u43	Mr. President. When I gave my last talk during this discussion last night, I quoted what I felt was a comparison among members of the council who had spoken that day. My speech was that the petition system, which is in a sense used to bring back the bank's thin personal money, was a poisonous cocktail. We saw how the fire burned down a few years ago. Now I want to say it's the highest. The secretary of finance and economics to praise that he is in accordance with this bill to try to pin a chain on both. It is quite certain that the part of the bill is attracted to its own money and money, actually their five types, looking for their good. I have to say, however, that his efforts to stop the instigation of the petitioning system once again lost its full mark. It has been observed in this discussion that there are certain dangers. This called for special attention from reason. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonson, who was here yesterday giving some of the best talks I've heard him give from a psychic awareness of this matter, that when the bill was agreed to consult with those who might have an interest under this bill, as the law assumes. It was naturally spoken to the financial organisation, who wanted no restrictions on a petition and even allow shareholders to add a proposal to 200%. He pointed this out. So it is clear that this bill is not for consumers. I asked the highest. A minister here yesterday whether it was in any way possible to defend the fact that the members of internal Affairs receive a bonus. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: It is possible to complete a discussion about this remarkable bill without even the highest degree. Minister will answer key questions of this nature? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u44	Mr. President. I think the highest. The secretary of the budget and the secretary of the economy has to answer this question. Much will be presented in the economic and business committee coverage of this case requiring the Ministry to re-vise this bill. The fact that patrolrs like regulations are joined by a group of employees who have a chance to get a bonus and a proposal, I feel completely confused with all common sense. It would be as if driving drivers could somehow obtain those on road - control offers to increase their purchase, and then they should monitor road traffic and heavy transport and other factors that have become very strict. Of course, all organisations are to be independent in their coverage. Being a rulekeeper is a very responsible task. This group of employees should not be brought into temptation. At least there is a chance that people will be drawn into the temptation to relax something on the watch, as was certainly done before a collapse. I think it's good that the banks are well funded. These criteria require up to 20% of their money in these large banks, which have a systematic risk built in their system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u45	Exactly, Mr. President, it's the immediate temptation problem that this is about. Every time a person picks up a bonus system that, of course, is nothing more than a petitioning system, one needs to see if such a system could produce some sort of temptation problem. Like what? A senator traced out this question that I was crying over her shoulder to the highest. Certainly, a minister would not have answered this would create a moral problem with those who are in the surveillance position within the bank. In view of history and examples, which have even been traced to this discussion, and why. A senator made a small mistake, making it necessary to say that, as it is, it is not likely that the requests to the general employees will be greatly increased, even if the managers are excluded. It also creates a moral hazard. I just reiterate what I said, I don't feel it's possible for this discussion to end without being at the top. Secretary of finance will answer questions that have been addressed to him regarding the two distinct aspects of the temptation that this would create. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u46	Mr. President. I agree with what. This is a key question and a fundamental question raised by a senator. Secretary of finance needs to answer. Regarding the high profits that the public sees in the country and may not be very happy to avoid turning to consumers in various ways, in better interest, and in lower services, financial companies will be looking for them to be in society, and they will have to share terms with them. You cannot see an enormous amount of pay without criticism, as if bank managers have from nearly 20 million a year to 55-356 million a year, as one bank manager has today. [[The president calls.]] It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u47	A respectable president. I reviewed some views in my first talk at a meeting yesterday and came first to review some of the viewpoints that were presented there and that have also been presented in the discussion with others, as well as to provide some details that could not be learned. First and last, this is about the changes involved in what is called a variable remuneration, which is called in Icelandic bank booths, a phenomenon that we have learned that we need to avoid. There is reason to worry about the ultimate. The secretary of finance has not taken adequate precautions in his proposals, much less with the ideas that have been put on increasing sources to bank booths in the treatment of the Commission, which I believe to be extremely incorrigibly inaccurate. On the other hand, it attracts a thin self - esteem, the view as it rests. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson did a fine job in his speech, president of the Economic and Business Committee, and I trust the committee will follow closely in the changes she is making in the case between discussions. With regard to the proposals, we have discussed only the matter of supervision. I think it's natural to doubt the right of those who monitor the financial structure, which is an extremely important job, to have some sort of petitioning system in it. At the very least, it is important to think deeply about what a bonus is offering, what the petition is about. I'm not going to rule out a special bonus system if you expose something different. If there was an increased purchase by the Rapporteurs for such reasons, a candidate might contribute to increasing consumer protection, financial stability, and the like. But then there will be the right motivation to turn to these people. I think it is the same thing with regard to increased legal resources from non-computers in financial companies, but it provides advice for bank clients and direct services to bank customers. Of course, those who submit to the right things can be considered worthy of such jobs as others. I think what you have mainly to warn and to guard against is that some sort of purchase system in the banks encourages workers to direct consumers as limited knowledge of financial ventures in risky ways. I received my talk on that subject yesterday with some responses from people who had crashed very badly from the so-called financial counseling of the bank. It is unnatural to make a bonus if you get people to move bank accounts into stocks or mortgage their apartment house to enter a fruit or stock or to show similar behavior to others. I think you have to ask yourself, " Is there any reason why any buyers are involved with the advice of the bank with consumers? ' There may be other viewpoints on professional investments, corporate services and the business of banks with non- consumers, market informed persons who are supposed to have knowledge, have financial resources and should be in full supply to weigh and assess the oers they receive from financial institutions. It must be guaranteed as well as possible. I think the first thing to add here consumer protection is to make sure that there are no motivations allowed in the banking system to encourage consumers to increase their financial risks. It cannot be rewarded. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for the talk, and especially for his tips and speculations, which turn to financial products, benefits, and advantages. This bill focuses primarily on the order of the environment or the process of surrounding financial institutions, but we have also been discussing these issues in larger contexts, the financial environment in general. In this discussion, the question of possession in financial institutions has been developed. I moved it both into a speech yesterday, and in reply to a certain member of the Independence Party who felt that this question was so pointless that he did not have to answer it. I think that those who realistically observe the consequences of the bank crash, a historical consequence, and the events that followed the collapse, are not prepared to turn such off. Now I'm asking why. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar: What's his position on obtaining property on banks? Does he agree that it is important to keep at least one bank of state, in public interest, in the attitude that the left movement has already held, the green movement? We've been looking until the Land Bank. What's the stand? That's it? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I agree that in the present situation and for many years now, I believe that there is good reason for the state to take possession part in the Lands Bank, have that bank, and that he is trapped in a financial market, especially because in Iceland not only are we in trouble with our financial system but the financial system is in the world in a crisis. There is in no way at all to the end of it, and while it is, at least, people have found no other better system, I think it is successful and best for society up to the state's holding the property of the Lands Bank. Other than that, I believe that possession of property is important to the possession of the other banks, Arion and Iceland Bank, to be changed so as not to belong directly to the crew. I think there have been a number of arguments that led to that arrangement at the time, for a fixed time as temporary solution, but now it has to be cut off. I also believe that in such changes, the state will step into the possession of those banks, ensure at least that there will be a process in which they will be made in public possession, and if it becomes the result that they will enter private property, it will become an open and transparent process, not in the back rooms of which some will receive this and some others will receive the rest, as was sadly the 50-50 exchange of the U.S. and Independence groups on the National Banks and Farming Bank earlier in this century, with dire consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u50	V.E.G. President. You're right. A senator says, we are going to engage in a study that may be the most important factor in the collapse, and it is the privatization of banks around the turn of the century. There is the approval of the Generals, but we will carry it out. I agree with the emphasis. Senator. He speaks of global uncertainty and the importance of keeping at least one public bank in order to maintain financial stability. I wholeheartedly agree with him on this, and it would be helpful to hear the opinion of more members of the council in this regard. It was sad to listen to one of the Independence Party members here yesterday trying to avoid reporting his position on this matter, but this is a matter that we need to discuss here in connection with this general financial discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u51	A respectable president. I think the Senator's right, but I think there's another point about the holding of the banks we need to discuss, and that's integration of business banking and investment banking. I think it's particularly important, and obviously longer, that the state will take possession of one business bank that the public can trust and turn to, but investment banking is such a physical business. It is a venture capitalist business, and while it is not fully developed, it would be preferable in many ways to try to separate it from the business banking agency. I think the government could sooner drop off investment banking and leave it at the market, even though the government holds possession of one key trade bank for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u52	Mr. President. Hv. A senator did well to review the concerns of consumers and consumer protection. We know that there is much immorality and irresponsible conduct in the banks, unfortunately, the last losses before a collapse. I'm not going to transfer it to all employees, but part of them, unfortunately. I want to go inside. A senator's opinion on whether he feels that the banks need to submit to moral standards, whether they need to be fully equal to the fact that regulations and surveillance are intensified, as are part of this bill, that the banks themselves need to meet them, and that these would be held in honor. Hv. A senator came into the shop and found that this would have to be some useful process that would reveal what was being provided for a bonus. Should it not, then, be as good as looking for the sum to be tied to consumers and their ideals as to the bank's owners? Shouldn't this be reversed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u53	A respectable president. I thank the senator for bringing this up by the code of ethics. Of course, most bank workers are troubled by their respect and simply try to give the best advice they possibly can. But there has to be some reference work, and I've been wondering about this bill that the F.S.A. provides guidelines on good business practices and that perhaps such guidelines should be given to get more extensive coverage than just to the UN. Perhaps they should have political discussions and be accepted into the Council of Economic Affairs at any given time for discussion so that they are alone in this regard. Then I think it's a perfect idea. A senator if he could connect the bonus system, at least The managers of the bank, by saying that as the consumers were better off, the more they would be paid. [[The president calls.]] How interesting that would be to new financial markets!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u54	Mr. President. This may be an introduction to banks in collective negotiations; it would be important for consumers in the country if any such purchase system would be with the premise that consumers would benefit. Then it would be a purchase, and everyone would make money. I would think so. I just want to hear a little bit of attitude. A senator with social responsible banks. I mentioned the Norwegian banks that received a reward in 2010 for having had a vision of sustainability and for investing in sustainable projects. They thus coordinated the traditional bank functions of social and social responsibilities that I feel are, unfortunately, often lacking in our banking system. Does the senator see the need for such a course in the current bank, or do we just need a new bank to guide it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for reviewing the prize of the Council of Northern America that was given to the bank. I was privileged to enjoy coming to that delivery. There were very interesting companies with new values in financial and financial markets. They were not farm - trade banks in their countries, but they were new starters on this market. I think they're very promising. It is absolutely clear that sustainability is the largest and most important political project, not just in the Northern countries, and not just in Iceland, but in the whole world today, and it has to go to space in financial services like all other human activities. Sadly, as the head of the climate committee has repeated in all these last days, we are not on a well - range course with very serious consequences for the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u56	Mr. President. I've got to try to be on top of this discussion. I have to try to keep people on the basic talk about why a bonus system needs a bonus system, why it needs to be offered up in this business. I think there's something wrong with people that they must be, but the question is just how high they can be or to minimize their being dangerous. I want to have the discussion about why would there be a special bonus system for this kind of service rather than a lot of other things. I've hardly heard anything stupider than when they say that because there's a partial change in seawater or group bonus at a fishing plant, it must be normal for you to be in banks. It's completely incorrigible to equalize. The quick fixation of a ship's co - crew from the fishing gear, blood the fish, ice it, and walk away from it does not produce dangerous motivations for one or another. The same is true when a person is quick to trim and does well. There are absolutely incompatible things about the personal benefit of employees or managers in a financial firm - of doing what? To increase business and profits. How? By getting more clients, by getting more loans, by taking greater risks. We have a second negative motive, the opposite of having an exhilarating or stimulating system in which goods are being produced or put away. Hv. A senator has established a point in his talks earlier during the discussion and answers, and I would have liked to hear a comment. A senator to this point, first of all: Why does this have to be in this business? Second, is it not misleading to compare this with the petitioning system that Iceland and I know and have given well? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u57	A respectable president. I picked up a match for things like that. A senator last night, when I reviewed my time at the High Priest's High Priest's Temple of the Parliament, happy memories, where everything went out of being quick enough with the snorkels up on the head so that the processing line would go as far as possible. When the bonus was paid, it was to encourage that as many cods get through the line at any given time. That's what matters, that the right parts are being encouraged. I think I agree with the senator that there is no need for anyone in the banking system at all. I think that may be the case in some people, but it needs to be very clear and clear about what's going on. It may be positive that the employee expands the business the bank owns. For example, financial companies are expected to lose insurance, and there is a long tradition for employees to be paid by the amount of money they get to secure themselves. The amount of insurance they sell, insurance insurance, or anything like that can be paid to a person, and it can be positive to have an catalyst over such a business, resulting in more loyalty than fewer. Of course, there may be parts of the bank that are positive to be growing in a certain company and can be associated with some moderate bonus system, such as up to 1/4 of the salary. I think that what everyone wants to avoid is this excessive payment and wrong impulse. Especially should such questions arise on a person's part, such as those to be observed. [[The president calls.]] There, then, it must be a bonus for exposing something related to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u58	Mr. President. It is not to be overlooked but, in one sense, these impulse systems in the banks or in the financial world - let's keep them here with the stock market and all of that - totally incompatible with what we Icelanders all know and know and know and have experience, such as in the fish industry, where there is a common motivation for a line, a chain all of which needs to work well and no weak links can be in order to exert themselves. What distinguishes this from the banks and the financial world is the fact that general staff are not particularly well paid and are not offered. It has developed this culture, in case of culture, Mr. President, that it is something of such importance that governments and top officers should be at first on the superpowers because they manage money and on top of it has big money. This nature will not be overlooked when we discuss offers or bonuses in the financial world that I feel will not make it better to give up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u59	A respectable president. As shown by the senator, it is all about who and how. It is absurd to have a post-authorization system where stocks have the natural tendency to increase in time and lower in other times, to pay a great deal of requests when they rise, but then it will have no effect when they lower. On the other hand, employees may be convinced as many customers as possible about starting a special savings and receiving a paid request as they convince more customers the importance of laying on a special account. In the vast majority of cases, people are positive that they save extra pensions to face later in life. It may be positive that there is some kind of catalysing system that supports such behavior. That's why I think it's all about who and how a bonus is and how they are moderate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u60	V.E.G. President. I participated in a discussion about this matter yesterday and approached it in two ways, on the one hand, what I called a micro-doctor, which has to do with the regulations being brought into law by the bill, and on the other, a macro-doctor, to examine and discuss the entire financial environment. I don't think it's going to be broken off with each other. The question we're talking about now, there are two, three issues involved in the financial system, something we need. This has been an undisputed case that has to do with the separation of business banks and investment funds. It's a bill that matters. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir is the first transporter to, but we are some of the others involved in this bill. I brought this matter many times in the leading up to the collapse, and it would have been better to listen to the warnings that were on the scene and to make some changes in financial institutions rather than separate the business parts of the bank from the investment. We've been discussing this discussion about holding the banks. The importance of having stability in the possession of the public in the financial system has been approached by various angles, and in recent days huge profits made by banks have been reported, up to 100 billion in total last year. It has been shown that they are making 30 billion of their services. It has come to pass, and those who are affected know that interest is now high. They ask a number of questions in this connection: Why are the costs of services not run down and also the interest of customers? I'm so lucky that there are still issues related to the financial system, as I did earlier, and I'll come to all these factors in a discussion of that matter because I view it as a whole system that we're looking at even though it's a problem. A member of the Independence Party, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, does not see a reason to respect an answer which would like to keep up the discussion of holding the banks. We've been talking about a bonus system here, and it looks like it's one of our own. I think more than fewer people have doubts about such systems. I remember, and we do so many who worked with studies, as most Icelanders did in the past, that it was a good idea to get into a pile, a lot of work, and possibly a bargaining job that is a sort of bonus system. There's nothing wrong with taking care of temporary work under such circumstances, that's fine. Then there are other jobs that are obvious not to be suitable for such systems. A police officer in an aggressor who gets a bonus for putting people in there, would that be good? Of course not! He is to try to keep law and peace, not in this way, if it is possible to avoid it. A medical staff handling a sick person should be asked to be quick to switch the beds or to be available to lie in what cannot be recommended, a good manner, taking time to care for the person being present? The teacher, what should his request be? It is obvious that most jobs are not relevant. This is for temporary relics. And when it comes to banks, what should a petition be made? To further increase the gain that humans are stumbling over now? 100 billion in 2014? For getting more in the service fees than the profit I mentioned earlier, 30 billion dollars.? [[The president calls.]] To me, it just doesn't work out. Therefore, the petitioning system does not belong in the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u61	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'll share my concerns with you. paritaprevir Jónasson's son surmise is because we are enforcing the same catalyst systems that played a very large part, according to the General Commission report on the collapse of the bank, in that case. It created a particular dugout, a temptation, resulting in a collapse that a very large number of people lost a lot of the money they had earned to collect. I know of people who worked low wages, did nothing, and was a special group who were tried to get to Sea 9. Those people lost much and have never been improved. Such ones are not in the correction. I wanted to ask the senator which way was better off. There are a lot of things in this bill, but would it be wise to make a simple suggestion that our petitiones be changed, especially with those who are to be held in the banks? It's a little strange that they should be offered a bonus. Perhaps it would be advisable to pay them in another way, e.g. a higher salary? Can this bill be fixed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. I believe that a bonus system, a prosthesis system, does not belong in financial companies at all and that bank workers are expected to live in an environment similar to that of other people in Iceland. In general, people get their pay fixed, and if they are able to take overtime and wish for it, they work a longer day. A bonus system is to be bound in a very temporary situation, as I mentioned earlier, a collection of summer work where people are willing to work very hard in a short time; I have nothing to do with that sort of observation and often took myself, to myself, harmless, involved in a few years before. I don't think this applies to this system and can just be harmful. I don't know, though, if there's supposed to be some kind of grating system. It has been said that in small institutions that suffer severe hardship, there may be a need to reduce the pay to the person rather than expel some. This has often been accomplished, including in the official system, which is done on a democratic basis in which all come together. In general, I don't think a petition and a bonus system has anything to do with the financial system, it should be completely eliminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u63	President. Thank you so much for the answers. That's exactly what I've been thinking about petitioning over my head. I worked in a sewing room and in a freezer where I rebelled against these petitioning systems because I felt that they were going to stop people taking a break in food or coffee. They often tried to cheat people with their petitioning systems. Would it not be easier for people to get a good salary for the work they do? I'm worried that what's going on in this bill is gonna reflect a lot and an increase. These proposals are often enormously high and in no way consistent with those of other people in the community. Wouldn't have been closer, huh? A senator, making other changes in the financial system? It has often been discussed about the importance of unassailing traditional business ventures and trying to lay the foundation for these changes during the last term. Why don't we start with these things at the right end? What I experience is, somehow, we're back, with a tremendous speed, into the same kind of atmosphere that you felt after the privatization on the banks. Is it true that somehow we're somehow losing sight of what traditional banking work is based on how venture banking systems work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u64	V.E.G. President. I think you're right. In his first entrance, a senator said that the financial system and those at the top of it are losing their earthly relationship. The bank manager's low pay is now being talked about, and I don't think it's an accident that he has a lot less pay than the other bank does. There, the effects of possession are taught, not a question; yet, there is about half a million a month. To me, it's called a very high-priority salary by a Icelandic labour market. This indicates that this area of society is losing its body of soil and is entering the same pattern that it once was, to justify a huge amount of heavenly wages for those who led the way. This is part of the detoxification brought upon us by the market of the financial system. In general, it is my feeling that good results from a financial company actually war against the aims of the petitioning system. They try to contribute to the highest profits paid by banks, which are then at the expense of customers, those who borrow, who pay the interest, and who pay the highest amount of services rendered to their suitors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u65	Mr. President. The main core of this bill is two. On the one hand, it deals with ways to strengthen the financial standing of the bank, and on the other hand, it is about the bonus system or the petition system and certain compartments of it. Interestingly, as the discussion has progressed, the amount of money that has been put into place has actually been put aside. I think most people would agree on that. On the other hand, the whole issue has been able to warn of the compromise that is taking place in response to the bonus system, and many warnings have been made, both from the position of government but from the start. Councilmen from the Cabinet. It shot a little wrong when it was the highest. The financial and economic minister gave his story to the case, he certainly made a good impression on how the proposals are prepared in this bill, but he almost put the crying letter into the council and asked that it might not be possible even to make room, which seemed as if he himself could not. He clearly explained the viewpoint of the Association of financial companies, but they wanted to change the bill so that a shareholder meeting could increase the petition to up to 200% and the highest. In fact, a minister defended it by referring to the northern countries where it was allowed. They did not really go through the same type of bank crisis as we do when they landed in their 1990s. Maybe we shouldn't let one thing pass over the whole thing. I believe there are small financial companies, such as insurance insurance companies, where it might be best to have a bonus system. On the other hand, people are to pay a warning as it's put in the bill to the big banks, and I agree with it by then. A senator, but is he prepared to consider perhaps these smaller companies who do not have a systematic risk through other glasses? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u66	V.E.G. President. I took a quick look at it earlier and wondered if we were talking about another object, a type of remuneration system, or a pay balance idea that has nothing to do with the bonus system itself. Of course I'm ready to look at all things, but at the end of the day, I believe that anything based on this suggestion is evil. I don't think it's good. It is of great importance what the thinking of the financial system is, within the financial world. As a result, it really matters what our motivation is to sort into it to get it to the best of its work. For some reason, financial systems, banks, and savings could be run for years and decades without being built on these bonuses and proposals, at least to the extent that we were allowed to experience in the wake of the crash. In fact, it was not long before these systems were refurbished. I believe it was very bad to take some step in that direction because we should keep these institutions outside of this thought as far as possible. That's why I think this bonus should be cleared out of the law bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u67	Mr. President. I believe that the privatization of the banks and how it was decided on the part of the government on what it should be like, i.e. not the scattered holding that the then government had long exorcised, as well as the indentation of a stockier system that was superseded like a snowbolt and was actually completely furious in 2007, such as a bat. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask was attributed to yesterday's speech, a dramatic episode of what led to the collapse of the bank. Of course, there were other factors, but this was clearly one of the factors. When men put in a bill of these types, I wondered if they've examined enough risk factors. The required purpose of the bill is to reduce risk, but it does not appear in the bill that the risk to the individual consumers or clients is to be reduced. I know why. A senator never talks about such massive bills without having read them and investigated them so that he has no doubt found it in reading this bill, as I do, that it is due to the bill makers that a consultation was made with a financial company rather than a network of consumers. In answer to what. A senator earlier had a story of experience. paritaprevir One of many of the people we know, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, for whom we may directly claim that a volunteer of individual employees, a single counselor, could create a temptation in which the temptation is on the part of counseling customers or making a small bonus by turning them into a special fund. Hv. An elder mentioned an example earlier. [[The president calls.]] What is the conclusion? Jónasson Because consumers were not spoken to, did they talk to the financial organizations? [[The president calls.]] What does he conclude?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u68	V.E.G. President. I conclude that those who built this bill are not connected in the way we would like to. I notice that the conference debate has come first to the consumer side and is especially concerned about it. When it is now informed, which, unfortunately, comes as no surprise to you, that the consumers' organization was disregarded by the construction of the bill, I think it is most reprehensible. It is very important that the handling of the matter, the committee involved, take special note of these matters. I think we're right next door. A senator says that there are various aspects of this bill that are not divided. We would like to have a solid order about our financial institutions and try to make sure that in the laws and regulations, there are as many defences as possible to get us away from what happened in 2008. We do not want that to happen again. Thus, people may look to the motivations being loaded into the system and are exactly the same nature that we experienced here in the reaction of the crash, i.e. To promote the pursuit of riches.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u69	A respectable president. Here is an interesting discussion. I think there'll be a lot of fun at the Committee when people review this case because there are a lot of factors in the frameworks we've built and we've got our financial systems and our financial companies. Many of these are very positive in my opinion and, in many places, are taken into account as a clear environment, and responsibility and such factors are greatly affected. I'd like to start by mentioning a few points in that relationship, mainly two. I'm going to first admit, you're supposed to do it all the time, that I haven't been able to dive into all the paragraphs of the bill so that I'm just going to touch some of the points I've gone over and have raised questions that make me come here to throw them into the discussion and send them as the leading members of the Committee's work. It's a positive thing here that you are taking care of and sharpening and strengthening the control of the executives with the overall function of the company. As indicated in the report, there is an adjustment in the section of the law on the control and control of financial companies. There are positive factors in my life, and it is of great importance that the role of the government is clear as it is being done here and that the responsibility of government is set up in precise regulations. It's all well, and I'm happy for it. At the same time, I feel positive that there are also regulations to set up a special Risk Committee. It is designed to provide information that is at risk for financial activities, to review them, and to provide advice to the management board. It's all good and good. What I also find positive is that here are some changes to the section of the law that discusses their property and treatment. The bill is strengthening the rules allowing UNEP to maintain a continuous surveillance of the appropriate owner of an active holding part. It has positive changes, sharpening these factors. As noted, the principle of buying an active possession part of the body is also being slided when the SEC has assessed the owner for such a property. A person's questions arise when we're discussing these assets, that humans are overturning these factors. Hv. paritaprevir In their talks, Hjörvar has done quite well with the position of ownership of banks, at least two of the three largest banks in the country, and much has been discussed, mainly owned by demands. That's very strange for the long time. This was a very natural arrangement at the outset, but it will be a long - standing situation for us, and it is vital that we find ways to deal with it. The requirement for translucency in terms of emissions is, in particular, to the fact that it is absolutely clear that once you begin to dislodge the seas and the swellings of the building up, there will be a huge change in property, including property items in these banks. Therefore, transparency is required because it does not care how it is done. Although we know that it is inevitable, we do not care how it is done. I'm going to mention it in an bypass when I'm talking about it. A respectable president. Well, I hope we start to anticipate the end of the holding of the crews on these two banks, and then we'll also have to discuss how we'd like to see the number of banks placed in the bank for a long time. I believe that the State is not necessarily to be very important in the field of banking, but I have found a good arrangement that the State has more in one bank. Therefore, I see no basis for which the state would sell smaller parts of the Lands Bank, thus sharing the responsibility or property with others, preferably in the most scattered possession. The same is true of the big banks that the state now has only. I think it's important that we try to secure the most distributed possession. I think it's healthier, and it's very important in the light of history and our sad experience in holding banks and past privatisations. I'm not going to go into it here, enough has been done, and time is short and much to discuss. Although we are dealing with the bill, we must not be sensitive to that fact. It's a big, big trigger for a change in financial law, and it's only natural to discuss these factors at the same time. It is only natural for questions related to the possession of banks, the way these assets will change when the demands go out, etc., are on tables as we discuss this matter. I think it's extremely important that they be followed, and I'm confident that they will. This is what the Economic and Business Committee looked at. Although I have listed certain factors that I consider to be more significant, here are certain points that I am giving a great deal of notice, especially those discussed here that have been called a work policy and a variable remuneration. The concept of a variable remuneration means buying or offering as we know it, and most of this has been discussed. Well, well-appreciatives have been on the subject, but I have to say, I think it's hard for me to say that we're going back to make a change in the idea of renovating a petition system. The various forms of defense have been struck here, and there are some historical examples of how this petitioning system had to do with the collapse. I have to say, we're to be very careful about going to the ground. What bothers me in this case is that it's not just a drafting system for public employees, it's just that it's being accepted again by the executives, although it's with certain restrictions, but the worst of all, it's being opened to a request for security at the financial institutions. I'm most concerned with all of this. I don't see in the chapters I've read in the bill and the report any material evidence is given that internal Affairs, routines, and risk management are to be offered. I don't see it. All we do here is compare humans with the northern countries. They reveal what is done elsewhere. The European Union's directive is presented with no material evidence. I think and I know that this will be one of the factors that must be examined and examined by the Committee. It is a challenge to provide material reasons for this, such as the fact that very strict Icelandic rules can impair the competitiveness of Icelandic financial companies. I think a lot of other things, but this can undermine the competition of Icelandic financial companies. I don't think that's right, at least. not in the current situation. I believe the committee will be very careful about this. I can quite buy it that, under some circumstances in my financial institutions, as discussed here, there is a need to be some kind of flexibility in the profession so that out of business fluctuations, you can share good time with your employees because it takes relatively little of its salary between them. It must be discussed in this way, but it does not change a whole system for banks big, where there is a real system hazard, which may be less with the smaller ones, even though they may be someone. I'm not gonna tell myself about it here. I think there's material issues to discuss, not just because of the rules elsewhere. I've heard from some members that this is going to be done clearly. That's well, and I'm glad because I think it's important that we take a good look at this matter and walk very carefully to the ground. I don't think it's necessary to talk about this, as I feel in the report, as is a burdensome rule not to allow 100% of requests for those who are managers or in surveillance, etc. because they only get a piece of the bonus. I don't think that wording is appropriate in this case. It is not a burdensome rule to make a decision that those who are under supervision and other factors are excluded from being offered in marriage. We're talking about absolutely important things for a country like Iceland, that to ensure financial stability, people gently step to the ground. The banks here are the percentages of enormous size. They exert tremendous influence on the Icelandic economy, so it is not in my opinion that it is in some way burdensome if a person makes a personal decision on material grounds for separating these people. Rather, it is getting very gently to the earth. It's not all about the re-election--men do this experiment, and I don't mean to be unfair about it, to make defenses, and it's done well, such as re-explore a employee about paying a variable remuneration--just a proposal, let's say what it is--if it turns out that he was involved in something that caused problems. That's good, but I don't think that's gonna do it. At any rate, I don't have the right to agree with this until people put in material reasons why this is going to be done. A respectable president. Just at the end of the day, because of the time coming from me, I want to say that last time there's been a lot of talk about huge profits in banks. I suppose the committee will use the trip and look at the interest demand and other factors that will make such a profit, especially when the prime minister has been very important in these matters recently. I think it is very important that when a prime minister speaks as strongly as he does in this matter, he gives the rest of us how they're going to change this, how they're going to influence it. This does not mean merely being prime minister in Iceland, standing up at the end and criticizing. Some ideas and suggestions are needed on how to make changes. With all due respect to the prominent people sitting here, I have often felt that this lack was at hand. Councilmen of the Parliament returning what they say they're going to return. We'll see that in the insurance business, and I hope it's not in it. At any rate, I feel that when a prime minister speaks in this way, he has to make a decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your fine speech. You're right. One senator says, it is important that we receive firm suggestions on how to handle the problem that the senator rightly withdrew from, from the financial system, 30 billion for financial services, and a total of 100 billion per year, profits from the financial system. We need to know how to deal with such problems. That's exactly why I've wanted to discuss the whole thing, not just the rules set out in this bill, but the general environment of banks. That is why I would like to direct that question to why. The senator's opinion, or opinion, of the question of bank ownership, whether it is right to the state, to the general public through the state, has at least one bank, the Bank of the Lands Bank, or whether the senator considers it desirable to be sold as a business council that encourages them to be. It has now been found that the Lands Bank has provided between 20 and 30 billion dollars in a national budget in 2014. What's the assessment, what's the guess? A senator on this subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u71	A respectable president. One result of these huge profits is that they can pay money to their owners, and in this case, the State is getting a considerable share because, of course, the State has the Bank of the Lands and then a share in the big banks. I believe that the state should not necessarily be the dominant party on this market. The Kingdom is to continue with one bank, as it is today. Whether it's 100% or 80%, I'm not going to talk to you about it. I'm willing to take a look at selling some of it if it's in a properly distributed possession or done, but it's important to me that the state has the dominant share in the Bank of Lands, at least in years to come. I see no reason why the State will go out and sell that thing like that. One senator noted that there are some interested ones. Then I believe the possession of the other two banks is something we should discuss, too. The owner of the big banks cannot be such that they are here in the long - term possession of foreign workers. It is clear that it will change, and within some loss, and in what way these assets change. I'm not ready to participate or watch that this will create some situation where other vultures can stand and buy them at the expense of the decline. That is why, in my opinion, the whole process of their management is important as far as humans are concerned so that the parts of that bank will change their hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a thorough and grammatical answer in this short answer provided. She turned to various factors, banks in general, and agrees with me that it is desirable for the state to have one foundation bank in the community. I believe this should be as close as 100%, preferably in the possession of the state. Hv. A senator did not object, but he said that there may be other options. Interestingly, the senator, or other members of Congress, is referring to that fact. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson also discussed it here yesterday, realizing that this is also part of this discussion. That doesn't mean looking at the whole thing, we have to look at the whole environment. One member of the Independence Party, huh? þm. Will Vilhjálmur, spoke of it as a twist and confusion and plaything to discuss these matters. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. A senator for his answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u73	A respectable president. Of course, everything's on the line. Here we have a bill that holds 45 articles on the financial system, and it's only natural for humans to discuss some of them. This is actually about the change in the section of the law that focuses on property, their treatment, etc., it's not unusual for us to be discussing in the context of how we see these things develop. We are to be constantly talking about how we see these things taking us for a short and long time. I'm willing to answer that in a shorter time: I don't consider any material reasons to sell a share in the Lands Bank as it is now, but I don't intend to rule that out. Then I don't see him leaving the state. There needs to be material reasons for doing so, and I'm not that I'm willing to cross over for it forever and ever that it can. A respectable president. It is also the second factor that has to be considered, and that is why the banks make so much money as they do. I agree with what. Of course, a senator's concern is that he looks to the extent to which he accepts his services and so forth. I think it's normal that we're talking about that too during this discussion, and I think it's only natural that we try to see how that comes about. I think it is reasonable to ask simply those who are leading these financial institutions further into it and try to find some way to get them back to consumers. It's simply a fact on the land that we don't have much choice. If one goes up, the others go up. It's all hanging out. This market is not pure competition, it can't be said, and you don't move easily between banks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then why do you go? [[The president calls.]] There's nothing better waiting for you elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u74	Mr. President. Hv. An interesting item that has been handled only during recent discussions, both the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance has expressed itself, and is the position of the banking system today, its size, and its profits. It is of great interest to hear these advisers discuss this as if they had no power against it. And in reality, they are criticized as if they were powerless observers instead of bringing something for us as to how they intend to deal with it. In fact, I'm thinking that the problem is not that the Icelandic banking system is highly financed because it is now in the day that it works out well, both when we're enforcing the Basel rules, and it's a security issue on how the currency burglars are decommissioned. I would have directed my eyes and my criticism primarily to the fact that the banks are overindulging in interest of interest and taking services. Of course, what is to be criticized is that banks do not return their good things better to their customers. That is what comes best in Icelandic households and businesses. I just wanted to get in there. A senator after another, watching the buyers, the proposals I choose to call them, because I have not yet developed the concept of fancy, variable remuneration, only looking at their nature as we met them in the financial system. One makes it clear that they are likely to be back, and they are the highest executives and officers in the banks. I'm afraid it's a man, but the public staff in the banking system are not particularly well paid. Who are they? Yes, there is a very high proportion of women. There's a party in this that's also forgotten to look into, the remuneration in the system. That's a big difference in pay. Toppars are often highly rewarded as if operating a bank or stock company is some terrible kind of space science, but general staff are not very well. Should we not keep that in mind when we are also discussing these systems?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for coming in on this. You see, this is the whole point of this discussion. When it comes to, as in the bill, that public employees can get this bonus, bonus, or variable remuneration, regardless of what they choose to call it, they are not exactly what groups are. A senator mentioned. This huge difference in pay within the financial agency is interesting and also critical. Ask yourself, " Is it normal for those who have been directed by those miners to be those who should continue to encourage in this way? ' I doubt it, I'll make sure of it. I'm not going to say, though, that I don't think people are allowed to be well paid in Iceland. I have nothing against making money or benefiting from what they are doing, nothing, but it matters in my opinion, a respectable president, how they are returned to the community, and also how they affect society. There are so many things in these shops and the system here that I think will not have a positive effect on both, i.e. The community structure and the environment we're trying to build up here after a crash, as well as the cool wall we're also trying to build up. I believe this could be negative, as well as I believe that this can have a negative impact on financial companies and then send a very wrong signal when you are on top of it, on a regular basis, internal Affairs, and risk management into bonuses and offers a bonus. What's the point? They're just supposed to pay a good salary, don't put them under any requests, and leave them to do their job in peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u76	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. It sounds like a reason. A senator may be very close to me in these matters, and perhaps he will be closer to me than some of her platoon members, who may have dealt with this with their requests. What you're naturally amazed by is, like, a sledgehammer. The senator only came on, how quickly this seems to apply in the same passage again. The system that doesn't have a stronger position in public opinion than it has to say after the collapse, and then I'm not just talking about Iceland, but our financial system usually, is already moving in the same direction. For example, the discussion in Britain, where people are highly aggressive and shocked by the saving of banks that the State needed to save and that have been fired with loss even in recent years, proposals have begun. People have dealt with it in various ways, but I think it's the whole thing. The British then began to say, "Well, if you're going to pay yourself a lot of favors, we're going to take a lot of that into taxes, etc. I miss a few things, and I have repeatedly described in my discussion that we will discuss the basis for the need for these activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u77	A respectable president. The only material reasons you've heard during the discussion are with the less involved, i.e. those who want to use this means of sharing the profits when there is better or more involved with their employees, who will then sit with their lower income between them. These are the only material reasons I have heard, but I have not heard many other material reasons for this. I'm not going to say that any petitioning system in all forms is impossible, I'm not available in it, but I want to hear more material evidence that this is done. Although I don't completely shut off this system, if it's a good idea, I still think it's the most peculiar thing to do with the regularity, monitoring, and risk management. I think it's weird, and there's no logic in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very meaningful and objective review of this matter. There were many facts that the committee will no doubt consider. I'd like to ask you a few questions. There were a lot of good things in this, but there were also some questionables, such as the proposals, that they now only reach certain employees and that there was a roof on 25% but no strings on other employees. There's something else I notice about this, I don't know why. A senator has made a special examination of this, but on his own budget, which is designed to improve the security of the system and reduce the risk, a roof of 2% is set. Its focus is on the systematicly important enterprises, in effect, the enterprises where there should be no roof on this amount of money but should be exactly the space needed to demand the highest sum of enterprises which are not at all allowed to fall and make sure that they have a wealth of their own money. There's a roof. It's a question of whether or not. A senator can help me understand why such a roof is set and whether these are just the prints of some very efficient lesbians from the big companies and big stakeholders, whether or not they are in charge of legislation in the European Union. I'm not trying to speak against the European Union, this is true of all big states and legislation, of the United States and Europe as well. You can see the fingerprints of the big corporations' special interest. They're supposed to let a petition make up to 200%, that's the line, of the operators, as was correctly pointed out here, the ones on internal risk management and key positions in financial companies. [[The president calls.]] It's from the European Union that has bank crisis. Isn't this strange?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u79	A respectable president. First, I'm going to make the statement that not everything that comes from the European Union is perfect and not necessarily my own. We are here in a material discussion about this, and, of course, this arrangement is being made up of a set framework. I'll just admit, as I did in the beginning, that I haven't licesed the whole bill. I said that at the beginning because I just came across certain aspects of the person I have been able to cross and in the material I have come across, I have not found any material evidence to support this. Maybe there's something that's wrong. A senator will review the committee. I'm excited to hear people come with a deeper chemical reason to make these changes. There is also another thing that I came on in my own speech that is positive, and I think that will strengthen and explain the box, but these faults, by my opinion, are large that I am quite convinced that it will take a considerable time on the committee to look into this subject. It would be interesting to hear from what happened. A senator also knows what physical reasoning he knows for taking up a petition system for internal Affairs or routines, or others to watch that things are going well within the bank and that they do not overtake them. Of course, people may get ahead of themselves, they are all human, but then they have to be some standard tool that is not a participant in the race for the proposals, is the anchor in the Agency, and can keep track of the fact that all of this is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u80	A respectable president. That's another question I'd like to direct to. Senator, about the global economy of banks which are clearly in Iceland's low-level environment. The bank owned by government, owned by the nation, the Lands Bank, is doing well in profit, and in most cases it would be good if it wasn't a bank. We naturally do not want banks to be driven by losses, but we do not want far more profit than maybe 1% of our archives. Perhaps it would be normal, as if the ratings were foreign. This is it. This is it. In this unique situation, for example, it would be very useful if the mastery of this bank was to lead him in the pursuit of the best interests of customers and then other banks would have to follow up. That would be very clever. The trouble with this is that all the key workers at the bank are bank owners, and they have the best interests of making money, of course, and this doesn't quite agree with what we've been talking about here. How can we change this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u81	A respectable president. I appreciate that question. There we are discussing a bit of the heart in all of this, the ownership and why I believe it matters that the state has one bank, just as it is in this case. I believe that in many ways the Lands Bank did well. It is a fixed roof and holding of the bank manager's salary, but it has not changed anything about the bank manager of the other bank. The example there does not result in a lower salary from the bankers of other banks. Then I also believe that the Lands Bank did well in going beyond the last term, e.g. in meeting his clients in correcting their loans and meeting them in other ways because he went beyond some financial institutions. In many ways he has continued to set a good example, but I agree with that. Senator, you need to do better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u82	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir' daughter for a very good talk, in which she carefully reviewed both what is really good about these changes and what is not so good. My biggest concern is the petition system, and I would like to read from the 2008 International Commission report on the fall of banks, published on April 12, 2010. In chapter 10 of the Research Committee of the Allied Committee, we will discuss the pay and motivation systems of the banks and I encourage members of the committee to review this report. Five years is a long time, and I find it very interesting to skim over this and to review the κ-depth incentives at the bank's operating system, and the museum and the output, by permission of the President: U.S.A.P.A. In recent years the requirement for linking employers (partholders) with employees has been prominent and is based on both academic and practical views. Icelanders are well acquainted with such pay systems, especially in the fishing waters, where the ocean's harvest is a widespread structure and many feel that it is an important part of the success of Icelandic fishing companies. Workers who work in the knowledge industry, where markets are relatively small, have an overall contract to demand shares in the valuable things they are working on. By the training and experience they have gained in the districts, they themselves are able to compete for their employers, and the construction of new companies is not going to cost much. Much has been written about solutions on so - called legal problems, i.e. how to ensure that managers perform their tasks properly, bringing the best possible results to employers. The problem exists where workers have information other than company owners, but it is costly and even impossible to monitor employees to ensure that they work solely for the interests of their owners. With monitoring, it is possible to prevent e.g. Self - determination by a member of the management board, one of the greatest threats to the owner. It has been suggested that monitoring procedures can be implemented to promote good management and active management of the enterprise, which can reduce the legal issues. In fact, scholars have shown that powerful governments produce higher yields of the stocks of registered enterprises. Remuneration is a process that has been used to link the interests of employees and owners, thereby reducing the agent's problem. The result is generally a special reward to employees for the predefined jobs or for achieving specific results, e.g. certain business supplies. Implementation measures can be recommended in a variety of ways; with internal measures defined in annual accounts or external indicators based on external factors, such as the market price of stocks of registered enterprises. It is difficult to design an impulse system that supports the interests of owners and employees in a practical way. Staff, especially managers, usually have a better knowledge of the company than its owners. Thus, they are at risk of exploiting their advantage in impact on their success measures; economic figures, using the company's money to influence its market prices, or doing their work in order to meet the demands of success pay in a short term but to undermine the interests of the shareholders. Research suggests that the success of pay is not a substitute for control of managers. Still, there is an increased risk of self-imbursement where monitoring of managers is reduced. In part, this is indicated by the increase in the likelihood of legal lawsuits against partnerships when governments decide to use remuneration instead of intensive monitoring. The following study is aimed at answering the impact of the impulse systems on the management of the Icelandic bank and on whether it contributed to its collapse. As is well known from a theoretical discussion discussed in Section 3.0, banks have some special position as an enterprise. Bankers'yields a range of yields are generally considered less than those for example. production companies because of the services banks render to their high-risk clients and, on the other hand, because of the huge debt of the banks. If depositors lose faith in banks, it will inevitably cause them to fall. This results in a failure of the life - style of banking on economic systems. As corporate debt increases, the pay of the highest executives and key workers should be largely fixed, taking a smaller view of the situation. This is especially true of banks. The work of international bankers is clear, and it is natural that bank managers have to be highly qualified. To ensure that they are hired by the right people, their salary must be competitive. The special status of the bank described above, and at the same time how much bank managers can influence their survival, by means of the organization and the implementation of pay and impulse systems within them, it may be dangerous to decide the bank manager's salary so that most of them depend on the scales that the bank managers themselves and their partner can have considerable control. Unlike the sailor who is dependent on nature for profit, the bank manager has strands in his hand that can have a binding effect on the management point. For example, repeated loans never produce an accounting loss. There the effects of the loan are determined by the decisions made by the bank managers. The bank manager, for example, who has only one tenth of his salary in the form of basic pay or fixed salary, while 90% as a share of the company's success will inevitably get in a position to choose between making an accounting decision that leads to paying a higher contract or choosing a routine and/or binding value in the bank that does not guarantee the bank's pay. As mentioned earlier, the risks of this are particularly high in already heavily committed companies. In today's bitter competition, what is likely to happen is not a major mutation in the profit of an enterprise by increasing the economy. Increasing interest is mainly due to new discoveries, technological advancements, or investments that result in greater market activity. This once again affects the price of goods and services offered by the company and can increase its profits. But investments also include further debts, and money companies who are already in high debt, it is dangerous to encourage managers to continue to promote increased interest, which will only be met with more payment. Such an impulse system is likely to push society off the edge, so to speak, because the managers are likely to do what they want to do, and the system encourages them if they are otherwise at risk of losing their jobs and putting up with the resulting loss of income. As Sigurjón Þ. A Árnason pointed out in the hearing of the Allied Research Committee, this would have been tantamount to giving up the job against the greatest stockholders' will. In view of the great debt made by banks and the fact that they paid government managers and their various employees much of the petition, the World Committee of the Council considered it necessary to further examine the motivation systems of banks in order to determine whether the causes of the fall of banks could be found to some extent in these aspects of their management. The study focused on the construction of the catalysts, remuneration of employees, the decision making on bonuses and on the basis of the loans made to those in charge and staff. The Commission then stressed the magnitude of the pay paid value in different bank workers groups and the magnitude of the salary determined on the other hand by internal and external measures (nominal sizes, mental parameters, or factors determined on the market). At the same time, it was examined whether it could be seen that the managers do not tell the truth and correctly about the company's survival in order to meet the demands of the catalyst system, such as teachings predict the ability to happen. Finally, efforts were made to inform the purpose of the system set out for managers, how they were achieved, and how it affected the financial status of managers and banks. A common economic system is a reward both for short - term and long - term success. Each year or a half - year - old offerer falls to the former. The bonuses are often determined by internal measures, such as the interest of the employee's work unit and intended to encourage further in response. However, long-term efficiency is based mainly on external indicators such as the market price of the enterprise. In order to achieve long - term goals, the Gjarnas are made contracts with the employee. The employee gains when the company's stock prices are rising, but then he can cash in with the terms of the terms of the contract becoming something lower than what can be obtained on the market. By selling the stocks on the market, the employee can enjoy the value of the stocks and thus profitably. For the same purpose, the company may prefer to give the employee a share in the company right away at the start of a job with conditions not to sell the letters on the market until after a certain time. However, the two methods do not affect the company's expense as well as the interests of the employee. If the latter route is gone, it can immediately vote for the stockholders, but it can't if it only has a contract. It is customary for companies to publish new items for this purpose; either when using the premium or when the employee is given a letter with conditions. This reduces the property of other existing shareholders to their union. 10.2 collection and sample On the basis of the sources of data collected by the Allied Council, the NTSB passed by law. 142/2008 was called upon to create a database that covered all pay pay paid for motherhood employees, Preservation, National Bank, and Glitnism, in 2004◯2008. The committee could collect information on the salary rates of a daughter's partner, only to a limited extent. The Committee had access to all the employment contracts of the workers mentioned above. This analysis is limited to those who worked for their own banking. Thus, status values asked for other practices, such as cleaning, cooking, medical services, and housekeeping, were taken out of the dataset. In cases where the employee's job name was not specified in the database, the job name was expected to be valid during the previous or later period. Monthly data were collected. If an employee had a part - time job, a work ratio, and his salary were expressed as if he were in full - time service. Monthly data were converted into mean data by pooling all monthly pay and sharing in with the number of months won by the employee during the year. The information provided on pay distribution is therefore based on the average monthly salary of the workers. The number of paymen varied with banks ranging from 77 to 271 remunerations. The winners were consistent between the banks and assembled to four main teams: 1) foundation pay; fixed monthly, fixed extra pay, such as car allowances, benets (for the use of cars, phone, food, clothing), and extra pay that does not belong to proposals, 2) Remunerations, failed pay for the results of the previous year, prior remunerations for an anniversary, or other pay aimed at holding an employee and preventing him from going to other jobs, Invented excerpts, i.e. taxpays the income of terms of reimbursement or their compensation, only from the benefits of the inflation, although the right is to employ the profits of the agreement to keep the stocks in place, 4) pension payments; the cross-registry of a worker in a pension fund, whether in a share fund or in a special fund. In comparable studies, the so - called price of contracts is usually put together when given to employees as part of their pay. The amount of pay paid in the form of shares in the banks was not taken into account. Now I'm almost done with my time, but I would've wanted to finish this chapter. I encourage members of the committee to finish reading the section on impulse systems, where the impulse system of Glitnis, Land Bank, and Copenhagen is covered in detail. It should be useful for those who doubt whether our petition is helpful and for the sake of having a healthy banking system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u83	Mr. President. I'm convinced that I'm at the highest. The president has been as impressed with this reading as I am because I was not afraid that the misunderstanding as the jungle as the bonus system or the petitioning system inside the bank would be so scary. This is where we counted it. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir may well judge dozens of requests of all possible and impossible reasons that the banks used for operating and to maximise their profits during the past decade before the turn of the world. After I have heard this reading, I cannot help but say that hell is a warning indeed. This has made it very clear in our discussion that the portion of this bill is clearly identified. Congress officials are concerned that the banks are being reassigned. Sadly, at the last loss, we have seen that it seems that the cool wall inside the door is falling toward the same direction that it was in 2007 when everything got out of hand, when all offers to all sorts of people were lightheaded and, in many cases, picked up much higher than the pay. This bill makes it clear that, for example, there is no question about how this might appear to consumers. Hv. On the other hand, a member of the Sanhedrin was doing a very good job today as to how he could literally jump from an upright person who was gathering a small amount of funds to buy his own house or for his old age. What I want to ask you is why. A member of the council believes that the options to cut out are entirely due, or she feels that they should be changed. ? Is any form of those with whom they feel it is acceptable to be used within financial institutions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u84	President. I appreciate the question. As one sees, by reading the report on the collapse that was done before the General Assembly, I think that the problem of temptation, as noted, is basically a gross report: legal but immoral. It's so easy to get into a temptation problem when you have a petitioning system, at least a system that encourages you to - well, it's just too tempting when talking about the numbers. I encourage people to finish reading this chapter, considering the salary people received and their requests, this is nothing small. If a person is able to buy himself a piece of compensation, it is a real temptation, and it takes on those who want to be honest bankers. Many who were working on banks did not come into this temptation, mostly the people on the floor. Those who had to return - these are something like telephone dealers, you do not put people who are managing money and who are serving the public or who may have come out to have twenty times a national economy - not a national interest but a defense of national income - are at risk of everything when they face such a temptation. It's like putting a kitten in a bird cage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u85	Mr. President. If I could make up a little bit of an illustration. I'd rather have put it this way, like putting a mink into a chicken coop. I thought, Mr. President, maybe the discussion was about to end because we've covered all of this matter, but I have to say exactly as it is, that perspective is in itself. A senator's fresh memory of this report was so much appreciated that it in itself merits a special discussion at the highest level. Economic and financial ministers before we leave this night at this time. I wanted to let me challenge it. A senator takes advantage of his right to a second talk and finishes his reading, for in view of what he has read. At the end of his talk, a senator explained how much a petition was made. They were even so great that men could buy their yachts. At the end, Mr President, what do you think? A senator's opinion of the fact that the bill allows paying for those who are expected to be in charge of risks within banks? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u86	President. You see, that's what I feel like about it. In fact, I can hardly believe that anyone would think of putting those who are supposed to be regular guards in the banks into a petitioning system, a regular price, a moral price, just to make sure that the memory doesn't enter a chicken farm. I agree that you really need to do much more in this matter. It's been a while since I've read this chapter and I've decided to remember it, and it's striking. I don't want to see those things back in Iceland. I just have to say right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u87	Mr. President. I just want to ask you a question. A senator on the type of banking. I put it in my speech earlier and drew attention to banks that received the Council of the Northland five years ago for social responsibility and for having the main objective of the work to have a vision for the future, especially on investment in sustainable work. It's a social bank that has a clear guide, so I'll witness in the words one of the winners, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ Growth is not a goal in itself if it does not contribute to healthy, consistent development in the vicinity of the community as well as on the international level. He says: The banks are required to anoint the wheels of the economy, but if their objective is to make a profit, there is more to it. For the past few years, he adds: "It's been as good and as good as here in Iceland. This is very thought - provoking, and I want to hear some of the attitude of a boy. A senator to see if such a bank would come to Iceland or that the current financial institutions would take up the course that these banks received from the Council of the Northland at the time. I'm adding a question about why. A senator does not feel that there is a special need for moral standards within the banking system because of the ideologies and greed and immorality practiced in the banking system. I believe, however, that it doesn't apply to all of the bank employees, I think we have to keep it in the house. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u88	President. I want to thank you. A senator for recalling that there are fine models of how to run banks who serve the community. I've only studied whether a bank can be set up in Iceland, which is a small one, and it's very complex about the EEA principle. This actually played a major role in the dangers of the savings. After reviewing the report, the Alleglers concluded that those responsible for the bank crash were those who owned and controlled the banks, and especially if you see recent judgments related to these banks, some of which ended by getting a measure of prison sentences. Therefore, I have been disappointed that after this tremendous collapse, we will not put more emphasis on building a channel for a bank to which we would be interested in doing business. I can't for my little life do business with this traditional bank. I'm sorry we're going back to exactly the same place we were before a crash, and I don't think it's too critical. A lot of talk was given before a collapse when it was intended to privatize the banks that we should be assigned to foreign parties on that road. That would have been great, but unfortunately it was changed at the last second and was linked to the 50-50 change. It's too bad, and we can't go back there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u89	Mr. President. I'd also like to come into the bank's venture and whether we're not going a little back on that track by reimburseing bonuses and proposals in the same way as we do. A senator came in handy in his speech earlier. Is this bill sufficiently protected by consumers? The bonuses at one time all contributed to making money the most money, and those there at work were benefiting greatly from it. I wondered before, " Should I not turn the problem around and get some bonus because the consumer's interests were respected and the bank customers benefit from a decrease in interest of interest and services, something like that? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u90	President. It's a dream vision that it will ever succeed in the present system. Of course, it should be so that before this, we began to disarme the risk banking systems from conventional bank functions. Of course, we should create a real community bank here. I really miss not being a neighborhood bank in my neighborhood. If I had a business with my neighborhood, which is as big as Akureyri, it would use structure in the neighborhood as it was in the old days with the savings fund, which, unfortunately, went all to hell. You've got to forgive, chief. President. That's something we should focus on, to strengthen... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this fine speech, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. Why was she all right? Yes, because it reminds us of the leadings of the crash, what went wrong, and how we should now learn from the offenses that were in law and order, and then all the projects. I think it was very helpful to have this reminder brought into our discussion now. However, the factor I wanted to raise an issue in this contrast with the general financial environment, especially the possession of banks. I strongly believe that the public through the state should have at least one anchor bank and that we should not accept a business council that is now demanding the National Bank to be sold. As mentioned in the news, business agencies have issued an invitation to sell property for some 800 billion dollars now. and inside there are power companies, part of Land induction, then the Lands Bank. I wanted in. A senator according to her opinion whether it is possible to sell the Lands Bank or whether it agrees with me that it is important to keep the government's possession on him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u92	President. I think selling the Lands Bank would be a big misapprehension. I agree with what. A senator that while the environment is as it is, we need to keep tight - weight banks in the possession of the nation and under the supervision of the nation. What I think is important too, and what I would like to see is a smaller bank. I don't like the fact that we have traditional service banks that have an ◯too you to fail, the big thing that they will crash on the shoulders of the nation if they hatch too much and if the client comes back on and all the risks that comes with it. I think it's that kind of time, we're in a really big time of transformation beginning and starting that we don't often see at the Council because we're in the system. It is an enormous demand and enormous amount of waste in the world, a demand for much greater participation and responsibility from the common people. I don't think we should care for a routine that makes sure we have a more varied service here when it comes to banking. I have not seen much competition between these banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u93	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir on the importance of keeping the Lands Bank in public property. She mentioned two points in that regard. First, she correctly pointed out that the Lands Bank is a yellow egg. During 2014, we obtained between 20 and 30 billion tax payouts for holding property. This is one reason why a business agency wants to sell it or put it into the hands of his clients. The second factor mentioned by the senator was the uncertainty of the situation we now live in. I believe that to reduce the uncertainty permanently, this fixture needs to be in place. With regard to small banks and experiments in that subject, I agree completely, and I drew attention to the fact that in the last mayor's election, one candidate, Þorleifur Gunnlaugsson, set out in order for the city to go out that way, following in the footsteps of many rural communities in the United States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u94	President. Just a few years ago, I joined in pushing the idea of establishing the best bank. Sadly, the best class was not interested in this, but it was an idea that was put on the website ◯Bree in Reykjavík, and it's good that others want to make changes, as did a local Þorleifur before the last election. It should be one of the election's next elections and elections that we have more diverse banks and banks as well. The existence of community banks is very important, for it has been shown that their prosperity comes into the closer environment. I've watched a lot of discussions and long-term experiments with a bank like that, and I'd like to see a lot more of that. We really need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u95	A respectable president. Here in my second speech, I want to make a comment on some of the elements that I took away from the previous talk, but I think we need a little more discussion, especially in view of the introductions we've received at the Economic and Business Committee on the bill from the Ministry of finance this morning. It is considered to be in accordance with the principles of the bill on the new personal funds. According to the bill, four types of automortem will be legalized, i.e. the balance index to minimise risks due to economic crisis of financial enterprises, the protection aid to support the financial status of the enterprise, the system-based financial risks and, in cases where there is a systematicly important financial enterprise. The point is to consider that my knowledge is that during the treatment of the case on the committee, it is particularly important to consider how these different self - interest items should work together and weigh together. We know it's 84th. The current financial law contains the principle of 8% of the financial requirement. In addition, to this day, based on the SREP process of UNEP, which assess the risk of financial companies and that, in the case of financial companies, today, the largest bank, is the personal budget somewhere around 20%, and it is based on assessment of each institution. It is of great importance to be thoroughly informed about the interaction between these different methods, i.e. how it will affect the personal requirements of the banks in particular if this change is realized and the exact application of the laws given by the different sources of protection will be applied. For example, it is stated that the special protector should be able to obtain 2.5% of property, with a basic rule of 10.5 versus 8% at baseline. Then, it is expected that the fluctuater could learn that an additional 2.5% would be there. However, it is not clear how system-risk autoimpliment will be implemented. However, it is quite clear that all three of the banks are enterprises that make system risks because of their size and scope in the Icelandic economy. According to a bill report, there may be at least 1% of the world-risk budget, no warrants, but there is a wealth of government requirements if personal funds are set for more than 3% or 5%. We need to put it down on the Committee's work, we need clear answers from the SEC how this methodology will be applied and how it applies to the old principle by 8% and by the SREP process that is expected to continue in a new system. Of course, we need to have a certain sense of whether in the legal fixation here there is a significant chance that there will be a significant difference in the number of bank requirements or whether they will increase or become unchanged, as long as circumstances do not change. This, of course, is a matter of having insight. It also matters that we fully understand what is not completely clear to me in the bill, each government's scope is exactly in each case, whether or not it is linked to an external level other than it is now, since the SREP process in itself is just the upper limit of the risk crisis that can be established. So the SEC isn't today, e.g. bound to discontinuation of 20%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u96	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing up this uncertainty and how vague it is for Congress really what our financial qualifications are about to be made to big financial companies. I think it is entirely entrusted to officials, who, of course, are counting on fine works, but people need a tremendous amount of bone to raise their financial demands to these banks in times of need and when it comes to testing. It's now as I've said before, when we've got this super-whicker after the last crash, which we're in the right atmosphere to set reasonable standards. That really stabbed me, and I noticed that it was so bad. A senator himself pointed out that the most important personal funds are set up by 2% of the peak involved in systematicly important enterprises, the most dangerous assets that should have the highest money. Where in all these laws was this peak at 2%? To Whom Is It Acceptable? Is it acceptable to the public in the European Union or to those who chose them officials or to members of the council who established these laws, this frame? There's a total uncertainty for us on the Economic and Business Committee, we don't know if it's gonna be zero or 2%, we just don't have any idea. So I wondered, " Is there any reason why? ' The senator to the council steppes down tightly. Yes, it may well be that the balance balance is very hidden to officials because it is unpredictable what will become, that it will be revised, and that it has some limit, 0◯2.5% sounds reasonable, but perhaps the council will need to take a firm stand. All I did for 2% of the extra point is that you can't take any value at all until the middle of 2016. It was the other thing that amazed me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u97	A respectable president. Yeah, I can say with what. Of course, a senator's point is that the balance balance box is discussed in the financial arena, and then decisions are made based on events in the SEC or World Bank on its exports. As for the system risk, I can share with him in the basic concept, I'm not sure that we should write it in the law how it should be, but we need, as referred to as to the information on the material basis of the government, are going to lay the basis for the application of that authority. Of course, it is not possible for the lawgiver to know completely whether or not the major banks consider to be a systematic risk. Of course, the legislatator must have much to say. Only because of what lays before them. A senator correctly runs, it takes strong bones to deal with the system in this respect, and I now have personal experience. When I was an economic and business minister, there was a situation where, at the beginning of 2011, there was nothing going on in corporate debt and home, and all the banks seemed to have decided to think that all the other banks should cancel debt. Then they had all calculated that the economy would start quickly because debt would be canceled and they all planned to make money because they themselves didn't write down debts. Of course, none of them left when everyone had decided that they themselves would not cancel debt. I publicly said it in a speech on the Sea Bank's 50th anniversary that I would suggest, and I thought it would be ridiculous to lower their own budget requirements while they haven't worked against the system risk they're calling over the Icelandic community by not reducing the debt status of homes and companies. Of course, giving was quite a difficult statement, but it included a material assessment that they were creating a system risk and, of course, an economic risk in the country by not moving... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u98	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for these answers and draws his attention to other things that I find very strange about these laws and the whole box. Then I'm not saying that I blame us with the government or our Ministry, I think it's a lot of work to try to improve the box, because at the beginning of the Directive it's given a frame to give up up to a 100% bonus to those in key positions and to make choices about the risks and other things with the big companies that have such an impact on the whole community when they fall, up to 100%. If a shareholder's meeting decides he can be 200%, it's also allowed. What do you think? A senator about this kind of frame? What country did they want for such a bed? How was it determined? What I'm doing here may be the question of whether it could be that the legislation in the European Union itself, such as perhaps in many other countries has become the claws of the lobsterists, who are not working for the public, but only for big business companies, for huge banks that can pay them enormously much for getting these sources. Could it be that we're here at the council trying to disarm a bomb, whether to cut the green wire or the blue wire to make it harmless? Is that what we're doing here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u99	A respectable president. There is no doubt that legislation in the European Union depends, of course, on conflicting interests and is exerting its influence, as it might be, both basebians major companies, lobster consumers, and all of it. It is also clear that there are differing views between governments and there is no reward that in this matter specifically, changing the rules of banking, the British government has run a very harsh policy of high requests, and that the rules against the financial system are as burdensome as possible. She has worked very hard and has struggled very hard for it. Of course, the result is from EU negotiations. In many other countries, humans have wanted to go further on restrictions in this regard. I think it's very important that we take advantage of the time to decide for ourselves how far this material should go. Of course, there is an external limit, and in that respect you can be happy that 28 countries still agree that just because I share that view, it is not beyond this. A senator says there's too much space. However, this is a very good example, and other aspects of the financial system at the European Union that we are recording are here. It is the result of great conflict between interests, differences in individual countries and is then added to Britain and London's position as great capitals of financial services, and the British take London's most aggressive efforts in these activities and even more than the Germans pursue Frankfurt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-04-77.u100	Mr. President. In the beginning, I'd like to make a little comment relating to this bill, the EU and Iceland's Constitution. In the European Union, significant changes are expected to occur, in the control of financial systems and that the Icelanders will have to make many changes in their laws following this. It does, however, require that these changes be largely unchanged in the scapegoat at 2 pars. The constitution. It is true that in a certain process that takes into account the two supporting systems in the EEA, financial ministers of the EFTA/EES countries have come to a certain conclusion on how they intend to implement it. It has not been submitted to the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I'm not ready to say there's a constitution. In any case, it involves possible intervention in financial companies, which are attributable to institutions that are supranational; Icelanders have represented, but are in smaller sections, at least In theory. This is what I want to say because I'm no better than the second package of their changes will actually extend into this bill. That's one of the things that this council needs to be taken care of before they turn this bill into law. This debate has been very positive and objective, and it can be said that basically a person agrees with the objective of the bill that is twofold, first of all, to strengthen the bank's own money so that they can be better able to face future events in case of an explosion and second to reduce the risk within the system by building cutbacks in financial institutions. Aside from this core principle, my discussions have emphasized that I feel that it is important to me that everything in this bill is very corrosive. I don't think so, I think it's in chapters. I don't think so. I also believe that there is a large amount of power available to someone who can be said not to be under direct supervision of an elected agent. This could have shaken the working force of a great deal of power here. On the other hand, I'd like to say that in this discussion, it's happened. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, seems to be exactly the same as those of us who have paid attention to certain factors. He has also pointed very well that I believe, at least, some of the weaknesses involving how to establish the primary objectives of the bank's personal funds. On the other hand, I say that due to reaction. So I trust the head of the Economic and Business Committee, and I am confident that the handling of this case will be very good under his direction. It may make me fall asleep relatively calm tonight, but in other respects I want to say: I don't feel that there's a lack in this bill that it's absolutely clear that the strength of the bank's own money, which is expected to be made up of. What is vague in my mind, and I thought they were two years old. Elders who discuss with one another earlier also have similar points, how to do so. The assessment of when to strengthen your own money by picking up a total of five personal allowances set out in the bill, the institutions, and the officials who are to make decisions about it. I'm of the opinion that this bill's work should be done very carefully whether it should be struck in a bug in the bill. We know that in the first place at times, as at present, when money is strong, it can be used to carry it out. When you're sliding off your feet, it's technically much more difficult. Finally, Mr. President, as far as the bonus system is concerned, I'd like to review it here to the why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon came with a definition that I find important, he wanted to discuss measures to support the bank's own money and, on the other hand, the buying systems from identifying systemal important financial institutions in particular and that they oversee other interests for the implementation of their own funds as well as for the induction and recovery of the bonus system. That's where the risk is most. I agree with it, thinking it's one of them. The committee should be very thoroughly interested in their work.
