ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u1	A respectable president. Icelanders are at heart level, and when problems arise, whether it comes to natural disasters or other human disasters, the experience is that we stand together as one person, and all of us work on one thing to do to help, support, save lives, gather money, or help. And what can we do now, each one of us, to help people in distress? Today, the world faces one of the greatest refugee problems we have experienced since World War II. Tens of millions are on the run from their homeland because of wartime conflicts and other domestic disasters. Refugees don't go in for fun. It comes to us in Europe to take refuge and a better life for themselves and their children, provide for themselves. We watch shocking images every day on television, where refugees stumble between countries under awful conditions and ask for shelter and security. We can't turn off the TV and pretend we're not involved. We have a moral obligation to do our part and to welcome refugees into our midst. Icelanders have responded as a nation, but governments are still drawing their feet on the matter. Companys and individuals have offered assistance to the hosting of refugees and challenges from the public that governments welcome refugees. The Red Cross is looking for help with the arrival of refugees on the cover. Let's be close, Icelanders and the government, let's show what we have and welcome refugees to Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We have to take action immediately, this is an emergency, and we need to help now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u2	A respectable president. After the people who have been affected by this terrible and terrible threat of war in Syria began fleeing to Europe, our attention has been focused on their terrible equipment. It's all right to remember that until then, before this happened, the number of people equal to the whole Icelandic nation was murdered, that I think, and unfortunately, that wasn't a lot of attention. This may remind us that we should be more alert to what happens to our fellow Christians in the world. This is the nature of a big case, as has always been, but this is a matter we are discussing, and I think everybody has it in common to want to help these people. However, words are cheap, and we must have come to the point where we are now looking for solutions, see what we can do. A respectable president. I would like to suggest that we use the EFTA Development Fund, now known as the EEA Building Fund for this project. We place nearly as much money in the fund used to help the wealthy in the European Union as in development aid. Our development aid to the European Union is comparable to our developing aid in underdeveloped countries. Since 2006, we have placed 8,000 million people in the EFTA Development Fund as long as we have added 9,800 million to development aid. I challenge the Icelandic government, and I will personally, at the U.S. Senate Committee, suggest to use this fund for this project. We put 1,000 million in this fund in this year, that's not a small amount of money, and we've put 8,000 million in it in the past six years. With all due respect for the current effort to make money, they are not as urgent as the refugee problem. [[The president calls.]] If we want to give the money wisely, we should use it for the sake of refugees. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the United States government to use its power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u3	A respectable president. The stream of refugees from the war zones south of the globe to Europe is the largest humanitarian case in our part of the world has been faced for decades, and Iceland seems to be failing the test. It tells much about the moral strength of a nation whether and how the people of the land will respond to those seeking help in times of need. Today, tens of millions of people are on the run to the world while fleeing from war catastrophes, without people with children in desperate straits. Both the United Nations and the European Union have called on the world's nations to welcome these people, and there are nations that have responded favorably to their pleas, thus forming a moral mission. Sadly, however, no destination has been linked to the Iceland government, which draws on its feet for days and weeks. V.E.G. Social Ministers now speak as they all do in the Icelandic public, who has well described himself to be more than ready to open their arms and provide many practical assistance; housing, equipment, clothing, friendship, reading classes, and anything people have offered during the last days and weeks. However, it is not only common to the general population that the issue lies on but, unfortunately, in the government that seems to be viewed as trouble and development aid as a spending of money, such as the past and the end of the world has become a crime. It sucks when the economy is improving rapidly, and the state has 15 billion dollars. As this year's arrangement, let us continue to be far from the UN standards of contributions to development, for, as Mr. President, here in the dense darkness of the right government, no star has been attached in this matter or in any other humane, cooperative, and well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u4	A respectable president. In his letter to the Corinthians, the postuli Páll wrote about love is a personal type. He is said to cover all things, to hope for all things, to believe all things, and to put up with them all. It never fails, and it is a good standard for you to deal with moral issues in an effort to put yourself in the place of love. When it comes to the affairs of refugees, this is especially appropriate. Love would not be the subject of such a crisis that has established a minister's committee. Love would not wonder if there were enough experts in the country to cope with the problem. He remembered, I think, reacts faster than this is being done. It is strictly to witness because the beginning promised excellent ministers, ministers'declarations in the government, and the reaction of the government seemed to indicate that they were going to have faster hands. But there's nothing going on. The postuli Páll's earlier letter says that love is long - blind, but it does not keep account of the injury. I don't think he's doing this for so long either. Now the government has to take care of its pants because it is embarrassing us internationally with continued prostitution. This is the recent Assembly Hall that was being discussed with the secretary of the foreign affairs of bringing the Development Organization into the Ministry. Today, the greatest challenge in evolution is to take in a proper way and, in the spirit of love, in the enormously difficult situation in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss economic status, forward policy, interest rates and insurance. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson last night discussed the results of the Federal Institute of Growth and the results of the growth in the home and employment cycle and correctly pointed to the risks of growth exchanges and the negative effects of the influx of money from such a business. A respectable president. In the present situation, following collective agreements, growth has a negative impact on the job, activities and businesses, and particularly on the less and more medium-sized sectors. In this way, they will have no choice but to weigh higher financial costs into the prices and, instead of the original intention, to reduce their overall demand and reduce inflation, to the opposite degree. In fact, many economists have noted that the increase in the total demand, including the increase in interest, is uncertain. However, due to the price of the housing bar, when companies try to counteract future increases over-products, they may become involved in vicious cost-of-the-products. This will be more difficult for those efforts with higher financial costs. Balance and stability, of course, is just a term for something desirable without ever being real, but it can be said that travel services and low oil prices have saved matters for a while. I spoke here yesterday's budget and the importance of using the uplift to pay off the debt of state funds, but it is just as important to protect your home from the persistent increases in the more secure mortgage. That will only happen if you cancel your insurance policy, such as the highest. Governments are on their way. Long-term and long-term isolation of the prices and clear economic policies and the future with the emphasis on financial interaction and financial policies must be the next of the highest levels. Governments in the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u6	A respectable president. In October 2014, there were two bans, Pirate Bay, and a division. A few communications companies were required to shut down these sites. Then we pointed out that the minimal knowledge of the Internet provided to escape the end. First, two of us predicted that the basic knowledge of the Internet would be mistrusted. When I threatened to teach people to install another DNS server, which is probably the first thing they learn about Internet infrastructure, the basic knowledge was compared to giving burglars keys to other people's houses. A terrible metaphor, but we didn't expect it. Second, we predicted that justice would go further, for these methods would never be predictable. However, the method of stopping the author's offense by closing websites cannot go until it has gone too far. There's a reason why there's a ban on the law to go through county and courts. This is because law order is very important. In free society, a person does not close a web or confiscate literature unless there are compelling reasons, likely to produce the result of the ban, and that the victim of the obstacle can defend his freedom and rights. There is now reports that the highest European telecommunications firm has made an agreement that simply shut down sites without law, no matter which site they are found, if it is thought to be Pirate Bay or shared. These are hundreds, if not thousands of sites that neither county nor court will have anything to say. A procedure is now taken in which you close right and left tissues without a court location. This is exactly what we warned about, and we still warn that it will continue. Setting the DNS server on your computer e.g. Google DNS server 8.8.8, will be mistrusted, again, and people will have to go further again, as we predicted last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u7	A respectable president. I'm probably not the only one who's concerned about the transport to the Western Islands and actually the importance of transportation usually on a new financial bill. Despite a high rate of 10 billion fishing costs from the sea resources, which in general the nature of the matter is not useful to us without the useful marines, it is not possible for them to go to normal maintenance. Actually, there's a lot of sand being added to the land island, and it's a good thing. I noticed that despite the claim that a ship has been designed suitable for the land island, it is not expected for the construction of a new General in this financial bill. Actually, I had mixed feelings, and if I'm to be honest, I was a little glad. What is more, there are few protests from Western ears that are known to be heard by others. I've heard many Western ears that feel the same way, but they agree that the impossible is being tried, i.e. designing the most shallow square that can cross the Atlantic waves. The fact that a respected Icelandic shipping engineer with a group on the design of a new General has told him about the case strengthens me in that opinion. I'm taking off above the highest. Minister of state for having the courage to stop, do not flinch at anything, take one step at a time, and try how to pump sand from the island of the winter with a powerful pump ship. Western ears deserve safe transport on a real ship to the village while land island crew is not a safe haven. Prosperity and stability are important jobs, job security is part of the quality of the fish industry, as are tourism. Those of us who have been at sea know that sometimes we need to change our course when we face the natural forces.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna be in a place like what I'm supposed to be. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson here because I am not yet concerned with the prices that have been discovered since the bridal contracts and collective contracts that have not yet come. Actually, it doesn't help, but now it's still an opportunity, I think, to block the price. For example, during the past 12 months, it may be noted that the average amount of dollars has been made up of the largest coins, probably about 31.74%. There's one company that's had the guts to make use of this space, that's IKEA. I believe that it is next certain that more companies can follow through. There's a well-growing increase in the entire retail store. This year's labour contracts are no longer large enough for the retail market to be able to make money for them. I believe, in accordance with the labour market partners, businessmen are now required to make a covenant that there will be no prices in the coming months, that humans will be kept back. This is entirely possible, and I think there must be one factor in making it possible for the owner's policy at the biofuels in the country, which are the largest food chain in Iceland, to hold back the prices in any area, including a recent increase in unwanted agrienvironmental products, which occurred on an unfortunate period of time. All of these parties are to sit down together and find a way to prevent an inflation hole.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u9	A respectable president. Those who have observed the radio today may have noticed that it is now developing challenges from the Icelanders to the government in the form of a publication of The Kingdom Radio, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ I challenge the government to make a decision regarding the immediate arrival of refugees. Let's be human beings. Then people sign their name and publish it in the media. Why? This is because people have become impatient, just as we are, after action. This is not because humans want to know government or to have a nasty or something, but because all of us are full of great, great will and need to intervene and help in situations that now confront us. There are 60 million people in the industry, a huge proportion of these people are children, and much of them are on their own in the spa, and they are caught in the clone of misogynists. That's just the way it is, it always shows up in situations like this. That is why this requirement is that a person act quickly and safely. I don't understand why we have to have it on some committees and in such a long decision-making process and preparatory process, when we've got ten other units offered to accept refugees. We've got some strong wood. We have communities ready for this mission. They know this, they run communities with delicate lawsuits. What are we waiting for? I am glad that in this room there is a parapolitic organization for the withdrawal of refugees. It is called according to the response of the government from all parties. Now we have to start hearing from the government, it must start working on how this is going to be done. We can't wait any longer. These people can't wait anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u10	Mr. President. We know little of what it's like to live in the continent of Europe today or to face the distress that drives people to flee, or how they stand in the water, and to receive so many terrified people, people who are confronted with bombings in their homes, people who have to flee with their children. Sadly, we tend to become the conglomerate of bad, unpleasant news that appears on our television screen day after day. Lately, we have heard the stories of people who have come to Iceland as refugees or refugees. These stories have touched me and so many more. On Saturday, East Avenue and many other parts of the world gathered to welcome refugees to the country called Europe. The most important point is to mention the excellent talk of Spotlight on Monday, which was highly illuminating, while at the same time very tragic. You guys who didn't see the show have to give you time to watch as well as a show that was before and after the Castelight Show. Thorstensen Viðar Thorstensen, an expert at the Red Cross of Iceland, says that if the government wants to start this process for a certain number of refugees immediately. He suggests that there will be a way through the United Nations organization that would prevent refugees from crossing the Mediterranean Sea or traveling in trucks or in some other way indiscriminately. As we have seen, a large number of rural society have declared themselves ready to address these issues as well as individuals and since nothing stands in the way of the government's decision. Why hang out on the Minister's Committee? We are talking about people like us who have a desire to build a future for themselves and their children. We are to be happy to be a nation that has this unique opportunity to welcome back people who enrich our community, and we can learn so much from it. All that is needed is a government decision and declaration and it is to be made today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u11	A respectable president. I would like to come up here and agree with all the views I have heard here about the refugees and the refugee problem and hope that the government will take it to heart. But I also want to come up here and say I'm happy that projects are starting at the Sunland in the West in Reykjavík. It is a step toward making better use of the land and building up the rivers that I consider enormously important, the areas that will make a difference for the development of the city, and thus the competitiveness of the whole country with the countries we choose to compare ourselves with. A unique opportunity to make Reykjavík a better, more sustainable, more efficient city, while a more sustainable and more sustainable policy has been in the planning of most Western cities over the last 20 to 30 years. Achieving from airport development lays the groundwork for new economic growths in the fields of university, research, and high - tech technology that this government should welcome because it has, by means of a new budget bill, increased funding for innovation and technology. These companies, innovation companies, will be at home, and their prospects for future life will be determined. In addition, it is worth reminding that the closing of the airport will improve sound care and other environmental quality in the western part of the city, and the previously built area under the airline will have more security. But speaking of security, I see reason to accept here under the release of the Council of the City of New York from September 3. It shows that the safety profile of Istavia through the closing of the third runway shows that it is safe to close the course when considering the standards of the International Environment Agency. The user index calculates 97%, but the international reference is that it should not fall below 95%. When it comes to actual conditions, based on accurate wind measurements, runway status, visor, and cloud level, and real application in international and hospital flights, the usefulness of the field relative to shutting down the third runway is even better, even above 98%. [[The president calls.]] This should be an acceptable step toward closing the third course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u12	President. I want to congratulate the entire nation on the day of Icelandic nature. On such a day, there is reason to celebrate the natural world of Iceland and what it gives us every day, every year, every year, every year, every year - fish, energy, geity, water, air, northern light, dark, vegetation, bird life, seals, whales, falls and mountains, landscapes and unique fields. While the society continues to produce natural products, it needs to be divided into righteous ones, sharing it with the people in common funds, where everyone benefits, where no one cares for selfish gain, in which society as a whole, the future, and the children benefit. All technologies must be self-sustained. We are to return nature as good or better to future generations. Our modern right is limited to such a approach. But what is the situation and understanding of Icelandic nature's status at this time at the General Assembly of the Management Board? Iceland's Natural Museum, which is supposed to be a museum, receives 25 million dollars for financial contributions and is subject to government sensibility and ambition. This needs fixing. The Ramma plan was successful in defending with a great deal of force during the last council, but peace reports on the basis of it are not carried out and no plans are seen in a new budget to do better in terms of peace. This needs fixing. The bill for the Environment and Resource Minister for the Nature Protection of Nature includes an inexhaustible protection of specific natural phenomena and the rule of caution is far too weak in the bill. This has to be fixed, too. Iceland's natural nature is unique worldwide. Here are the variety of natural phenomena that are sided with one another, unique mines, and rare in each footway, in breadth, on the stem, and on the sand. We need to realize how unique nature is and that protection is the basis for entire sector, tourism. Icelandic nature and all that it transports need to be more important in making decisions and discussions. We need to understand it, study it, respect it. Its interests are the interests of future generations, and we must be guarded. The present government has to do better, so much better. Let's share the interests of Icelandic nature. Happy birthday. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u13	A respectable president. I'm going to have a problem inside the country. Today, the Russian embassies have a major impact on ten settlements, influence the wages of 400 sailors, affects the wages of 780 fish workers in Iceland, the people who were fighting for a higher salary all winter, and now reaps that because of the government's decision to support Russia's commercial bans will in the next season, most likely no soft freeze in Russia's market. This has a profound effect on the benefits and rewards of these people in the land. I think there's this particular matter that we need to discuss at the council, the ideal people in the country, who are losing a huge amount of money because of the clumsiness of participating in the Russian business situation. Although the Russian embassies of Reykjavík, I do not know what kind of illustration can be applied to a Russian embargo, it is so stupid that it does not seem to be a part of it. We need to consider how our people come out of these agreements. It has been tried to achieve a contract with the European Union to reduce toll, 20% imports to the European Union. And what is the answer to a state that is willing to be included in this business venture? No, it is not possible to reduce tolls on Icelandic production. That's the support we're getting back for supporting this insane business ban that's going to bring us the worst harm on ourselves. We are the only state involved in this business ceremony that leaves one of the nation's basic roads in this nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u14	President. I want to be like the members of the council here before me and the people who are now costing advertising on state radio call out that the government will tell us what it intends to do to make our contribution to meet the people who are now fleeing disaster in their lands. They are war - torn people. We, Icelandic people, may in fact be responsible for some of these people; the situation in Syria is the result of the invasion of Iraq in its time, and we are under obligation to contribute in this respect. It is not only in Iceland where people are anxious for the advice of those who are in control or who simply tell us what to do. We'll see in the news that people drive to Denmark and move refugees to Sweden and whatever. Now I think it's more than half a month ago. The government has appointed a five - man commission to think about these matters, and I'm going to encourage the five to think a little more quickly. None of us want to make this political bitterbone, as it were, but half a month is a long time for these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u15	A respectable president. I agree with those who have spoken here and discuss the terrible conditions of refugees living in Europe today. I want, like other members of the council here, to encourage the government to make a decision together with our rural society in the way we want to welcome refugees to our country and how many. It is true here that we live on an island north of the Atlantic Ocean and see and learn of the horrors that exist in Europe today, the migrations that take place, and the horrors of these people living in. We know this by word of mouth. Fortunately, we are in the countryside, so to speak, that it doesn't happen to us here in this country except through the media where we watch these people's woes. That is why we, out of all our abundance in this country, should accept refugees we will do so in a more dignified way than we have shown ourselves when refugees from Iraq were welcomed to Ak Arane along with their children, when we have taken refugees from Colombia and elsewhere. We can and should be proud of our people, our own people, but we are also to hold our heads high and look for people from other lands with cultures that can enrich our community and be part of the like those who have come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for opposing this discussion, which I considered urgent to be in the light of the news that the government did not agree in financial contributions to social security improvements in line with the rise of minimum wage and to provide further information on the survival of albinos and disability, social security reforms, which have crossed the budget, and the building of nurses who also found themselves grounded on budgets. If we start with a pensioner's income and what we read in the budget bill, it's 10,700 pensioners who receive special remuneration and who get nothing but the minimum social security benefits. Also, some 70% of the poor and the elderly are not entitled to do household chores where they live with others. In our company's bill, which is at the General Assembly, about the improvement in social security to 300 yous. K. the duration of the collective agreements is as careful as possible to try to get as much solid solidarity as possible. That's how we tie up 300 yards. K. just with those who enjoy household chores. We go no farther than what, though, is sound evidence. The offer of an increase in social security spending of 9.4% in the budget bill will not be the same as the increase in minimum wage, as both contracts are making a special effort to increase minimum wage, resulting in an increase of eight months earlier to be carried out in this year. The fact that we now live in this world about the survival of pensioners who have no other reason to rely on them is that those who enjoy household satisfaction survive 192 of yours. K. At month after tax, but according to the latest Haust assessment, the average price of singles to consume is 321 you. K. per month. It is this treasure that must be the common assignment for all of us to bridge. The fact is, too, that because of additional impairments, even if a pensioner in this situation had 70 points. K. From a pension fund, he'd have little more of a provision for mutual impairment. It is also important to establish visualization of the social security system. In recent years, many jobs have been done there. The proposals were made here at the beginning of the season, and a government has provided further work for it. It is extremely important that all the work that has been done in the revision will not be in vain, but will be docked. Both terms need to be improved and to ensure that if possible, disability can be replaced and restored but will not lose all the benefits of working, as it is now when they lose nearly 80 dollars in taxes and taxes. Governments and private companies need to set a good example and create flexible jobs, part - time jobs, to give people the opportunity to use limited skills. The nurse is such a special capitalist for itself. The government has, since she took over, deposed the elderly's management fund to a total of 2 billion U.S., 2þess. Millions of people who have slipped out of the budget to go to a nursing facility for business. A cumulative need of land hospitals is now 80 compartments, and there are people who do not get into a nursing room. It takes about a year of nursing in the capital area alone because of the anticipated increase in the elderly. There is no money to continue the building program, but now there is a budget bill 300 million for preparing and implementing the construction of three nursing homes. If you put that coin in context of what has already been lost, we should, in effect, be in three nursing homes if it had not been demeaned by 2 of you. Millions of people during this season. It is odd to note that the only development in this building today is the 300 million when the state is at the same time thinking that elderly people who have to accept allowances in nursing homes are paying so much for the service that the state is saving 80 million in return, feeding the elderly just over 70 you. K. in a month to survive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u17	Mr. President. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss these matters here at the council. It is important to see how we can better support those who rely on our social security system. It is a joy to see that in this country, there is one of the greatest increases in financial improvements that can occur in one financial bill, seeing that the situation has occurred that we have more in the country, the kakan is expanding, and it has led to the development of again in the land, by law, that we will increase compensation. That's what we're doing. In fact, we've done more than raise improvements in this terms in accordance with legal requirements because in 2014 and again in 2015 and again in the 2016 budget, we are upreaching significantly beyond the development of prices, and the level of subsidence has increased over the year by year. I'm going to review here that it was one of the first projects of a new government in 2013 to take over from this category. We raised contributions to this group of paintings about 5 billion, decommissioned basic pensions from pension income, increased income markets from 40 thousand to 110 thousand, and then decreased rates of income insurance, which had been increased in the past state for maintenance. In the first two years of this government, we have greatly improved the benefits and are going to continue to do so. Here's a suggestion that we need to let the compensation go with the minimum wage, and I respect it for that. A member of Congress that he is not making a suggestion in another matter here for the council that assumes that the benefits of all elevations are better than those in the narrowest position. That is an excellent effort, but there is still considerable additional expenditure. I feel that there is a lack of this input of all this debate about the financing of these enormous expenditures. Keep in mind, too, that in the coming years, there is predicted to be a tremendous increase in the need for global expenses for rising aging costs. Let us consider, for example, in this context some numbers. The population of 67 years of age and older is growing; today there are 38 thousand, with 63 thousand in 2030, and 76 thousand in 2040. Those who proclaim significant increases, significants spent in the reality we live in today's hundreds of billions, should not get involved in the discussion without completing it completely and explaining to us how they imagine it will be financed. I call on people to mention the insurance fee in this context because today we're involved in the insurance fees in the country funding the social security system, so we're financing about 71% of pension and accident insurance. If you want large compensations without raising your insurance fee, the state is taking on a huge share. It may be that a person wants to follow that path, but it needs to be made known. What I want to say here at the end of my first speech is that the level of money improvement is increasing. He'll continue to raise. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator of those in a narrower position. I hear it very clearly from the interest groups in these groups that they want to put forth the most important effort to help them. However, it will happen at the beginning of the next year that this group's improvement will exceed minimum wage. Then the stairway allows the minimum wage to return to the top, and then the gap narrows, etc. It's like this in a stepway. At the beginning of this year, for example, the improvement was higher than the minimum wage and will be back at the beginning of the next year, so it is not quite that simple. The important thing is that we have a real resistance in the financial affairs to do better. We're showing it in next year's budget, we're showing it in the budget. It's a government will to take care of this suit. We have demonstrated this in every year for all this terms, and we are preaching a new adjustment in the next year. Then I'd like to agree with what. A senator as part of a review of the social security system. Of course, it must be one of the biggest challenges we can face that the simple system, reduce the relief categories, combine them. [[The president calls.]] The process of microenergy evaluation, etc. has to be adjusted. This will help us to take the next big step toward progress in this series of issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u18	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Páll's annual Árnason for this discussion, which I believe is of utmost importance that we are here at the General Assembly. All too many pensioners, regardless of whether they are disability pensioners or old - age pensioners, are living in poverty, and are best seen in the fact that people of these groups are postponing drugs, going to a doctor, and having frequent financial worries. Of course, it will not be better to understand that this group has a difficult financial situation. So I want to say that I support the bill as a matter of course. A senator requested that social security and pensions be accompanied by minimum wage according to collective agreements and to be 300 of you. K. in 2018. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that there was a lack of funding because of these increased expenditures, and in this context, I want to say: "This is, of course, a matter of political choice and political priorities. The need to get the money to run the community to where the money is, and it is the role of the welfare community to reassign the wealth and money to those less fortunate among the hands. So I think that in order for us to live well with those who have to rely on society with financial success, we have to have the politics so that this money exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u19	Thank you for this discussion, Mr. Honorable President. I just wanted to get in on it because it's all about income and it's based on some sort of statistical calculation. It also needs to be noted that we are offering people a decent life and life - style. In this context, I feel that we must focus more on both the job and the government, us who are in the role we are at the council, about what people can offer. I think we need to work on a much better view of how we think about people and their ability to participate in society. All the ways we open, to people to do something they experience as something that makes them more in context and in the bigger picture, are important to us. That's why I think we should focus more on what, for example, appeared during last week's discussions. I can agree with my former associate in the welfare council of Reykjavík, the Björk Vilhelmsdóttir - even though I do not always agree with Björk's approach to things, I agree with her that we should help people out of self - help. Of course, it is not self - help to receive an assignment from the government just over 70 of you. K. to get in on and on or from some more. That is why I want us to try to focus our attention on people's activities and how we can get people to share in the community in the most powerful way. I agree with that, too, with the highest. The financial minister of the elderly is something we need to look seriously at. [[The president calls.]] It follows that society, as it is built up today, cannot survive this growth. For example, there we could look for injections from immigrants and refugees from other countries that we certainly need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason, the prime speaker of this discussion, as well as the secretary of finance for his answers to the senator's inquiries. I think it's obvious, and I'm sure it'll be the same thing that goes by the people who accompany me here on the platform, that we all agree to improve the terms of pensioners. I think that we all realize that it is a huge task to go back to the severe cuts that were taken during the last term because of difficult conditions in the state. That's why I want to remind you that what we've been doing since we took over two years ago. One of the first steps we had was to retract the legal modifications to improve the damage to the social security system. This is also the second year we present a budget bill that does not expect the economy requirement for social security. That's a guard. We now see that the improvement of social security, according to the bill, will increase by 9.4% next year. It simply means, as was shown in the case of the secretary of finance, that a pensioner with domestic satisfaction - as is being considered in the Community bill, which lives alone - will be in line with 246 yous. K. per month. This is precisely where the minimum wage is 245 you. K. So next year, daughters will follow the minimum. If we then look at the ups and downs already in 2014 and 2015, there will be a cumulative improvement to 2016 16.6%. At the same time, we are predicting that the cumulative inflation during this period will be 8.7%, and we will see that we are greatly increasing the cost of the ransom. We are then considering other factors. paritaprevir In this regard, Páll Árnason mentioned the best way to change the social security system to the future. [[The president calls.]] There we need to consider, as discussed here, the simplified and various system changes. However, this stream of liquid cannot be affected by those who have mentioned between their hands on the basis of the social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u21	A respectable president. As I've mentioned here in brief talks, I believe one of the big problems with the social security system is how complicated it is. As a result, people's rights become very difficult. It's very difficult to defend your rights if you don't understand the system you live with, let alone if the system doesn't understand itself, which is the case, I order. In view of the increases in social security, it is always important to consider the inflation. We know this, it is not enough to aim for a certain level of increase, it must be associated with inflation, both the development of pay and the development of economic prices. But I'd like to mention here, in the short time I have, one of the most important things to the social security system in my opinion - one of the worst, that's more, first of all, how low the benefits are -- but there's a decrease in participation. When poorer or old - age pensioners take a limited part in the economy by working, there is a loss. This means that a person who may be able to win something, perhaps a very small, very few things, but certain steps, for some time, cannot. This, in my opinion, has both economic and moral negative consequences, economic because it causes the inefficient use of labor, which is obvious, and the other is that it leads to a lack of demand that would exist if people had enough between their hands to choose, for example, newer opportunities and development of technology and services. Morally, it is wrong because it works not just for financial gain but for the individual's own freedom. If a person sees a project that he can do and wants to participate in - he will still never have a career security or opportunity to get ahead or a selection of tools, but if he can do one thing that he can do for a certain amount of time - he will always have to weigh it against his own interests. As soon as he engages in something, he is working against himself. There is a loss of freedom, it is unacceptable, and we must put an end to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u22	Mr. President. V.E.G. I was told by the secretary of finance during the days that he felt that right motivations were needed in the social security system so that people can see the benefits of going to the labour market and speak as if everyone had a choice of compensation or employment. V.E.G. The financial and economic secretary made it very clear that the improvement in social security should be lower than the minimum wage. Let's leave it. The Independence Party has not concluded, so I know, in fact, that the improvement in social security should not be less than the minimum wage. This, however, has been done by the media, so it is worth listening closely to what the candidates have to say on the subject. V.E.G. During the unsubstantiated question period of Monday, the increase offered in the budget will be in line with the policy of both administrations. Is it certain that the candidates at the approval of the Council of Pension for Pension and Minimum Remuneration agree on this? I allow myself to doubt that they think it's okay that pensions will be less than a minimum wage in eight months this year and for eight months on the next one, and that's what they agreed on, that public insurance pensions would make changes according to minimum wage. V.E.G. Social Affairs stated earlier that January 1, 2016, the improvement would reach the minimum, but it will only do so for four months because of the reimbursement of 1st May again in 2016. Government officials now talk about improvements in social security between years as a kind of act of kindness, and some say that they are bound by law, so there is no better way to do it. The song letter did not restrain the Union government and the left greener in 2011 in making better progress when the social security reforms increased as soon as pay following the collective agreements and in accordance with minimum wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u23	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years for starting this vital and vital discussion. As noted above, there is, of course, the need to improve the interests of the older citizens and the pensioners of this country. It is clear that the will is at the council. It is also clear that we need to reevaluate the social security system, which is very important to improve even the ideals and simple regulations. It has been observed here, in the matter of financial minister and welfare minister, that in the past two years compensation has increased far beyond the prices or by 8%. Of course, this is well done, but we know that we want to do better, and especially those that have the lowest benefits have as well as the lowest amount of money and upstairs are planning to do so. We also need to simplify the improvement system. I personally visited an insurance agency last week and studied how reforms are calculated and impairments and things like that are incredibly complex, and it is not surprising that older people who receive these accounts to their homes and settlements could hardly trust this because it is difficult to understand for many. We need to change that. In the nursing home of the elderly, it is important that we continue to do this work to increase the number of nurses. It is also important to look to another eight. I attended a conference at the Cape of Hornfjord, Health, and Health, and it was observed at the gerontologist Jón Þór Jónsson and Professor Janus Guðlaugsson, that we should also look at things to improve health and health by physical activity. There you can save a considerable amount of money in concrete for the future by increasing the strength and well - being of older citizens; they are growing old and getting better ready for life ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u24	Mr. President. The situation in the elderly is serious, but it is anticipated that in the coming years, the number of elderly people who live in Iceland will increase. It should be clear, then, that there is an increased need for nurses in the future, and the situation today is that people are getting far too late into a nursing room. It is important to consider this as soon as possible and therefore the requirement for bioavailability in innovation cannot be excluded. If available in a household home is good, people may live in their own home and thus reduce the need for special care. There is a review of the social security system, and I think everyone agrees that the system needs to be simplified, even if only because there was a simple and understandable system, people can be more protected from their rights. Of course, the system should be such that it encourages participation in a workforce. It is good not only for the individual but also for the community. In this too, it has to be directed to the job environment that people with impaired working skills must be hired. The global security system is all of us because we can all lose our health at any time and have to rely on it. Thus, the quality of the social security system is a measure of the welfare community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u25	Mr. President. As soon as I want to thank Páll. Árnason would like to bring up the rights of elderly people to their own lives. There is plenty of work to take, but I especially want to discuss one point of concern that is of great need to handle, impaired hearing that has led to isolation for a number of older citizens, and our need to provide the services and assistance they need to study information and to be active members of the community. A recent study in Australia suggests that one fifth of an older citizen may have difficulty understanding the instructions of a family doctor because of severe hearing impairment. This means that each fifth older citizen has difficulty understanding the instructions given to his doctors and instructions on the potential for life - threatening medication. Fifth. This is just one manifestation of what this large group of older citizens are dealing with. Then this group is often forbidden to perform related operations, such as simulated transplantations that could correct their hearing. Older citizens are thus sentenced to 80 years of age. It does not pay to improve their hearing even if they are able to have a well - adjusted hearing period of 10 to 20 years. Grief injustice. If well meant, this group should have the right to write like those using sign language. According to all of this, this service should be handled by the Deaf and the deaf, but according to their response to my inquiries, their funds are limited to sign - language messages. It goes on to say that older citizens who lose hearing in their later years do not take in sign language and use of it. Therefore, it is vital that governments map the status of the deaf and the hearing - impaired older citizens and systematically disrupt their isolation. It is unacceptable that older citizens need to rely on relatives to make themselves understandably and to study their environment. It tells itself that it is completely absurd for such a large group of people to sit in isolation and not get a chance to understand and study their environment. Older citizens may face enough problems, although not one of them is understanding the environment. Let us stop treating this growing group of older citizens as some leftover size in our society. [[The president calls.]] What a disgusting way to treat the people who built this society!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u26	V.E.G. President. During the past few years, government officials have served to reexamine the social security system. The last or most recent of those committees, set up in November 2013, was long under the direction of the late United States name Pétur Blöndalur, who is taught, is now on the verge of completing his work and returning to the minister. It is safe to say that there are three main categories that may have been dominant in this committee's work, which are said to simplify the improvement system, i.e. both the reform system and the financial system of older people, the raising of pensions and the setting of flexible retirements, and the changing of the present microenergy assessment systems, with the intention of giving those who have the potential to improve their ability to function through rehabilitation an opportunity to become active participants in professional and daily living, thereby improving their quality of life. All three factors are of utmost importance. It is of utmost importance that the system is simplified and that it is handled by user relations, so that those using the system are aware of their rights and do not have to worry about it or ask about it for the day but can take it for granted, and to ensure that those who can be rehabilitate for increased ability to improve their quality of life for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u27	A respectable president. Thank you for the minister and for the job. Parliaments for a good discussion and a keen understanding of this important matter. Admittedly, the cost will increase over the years; it is inevitable. We don't want to raise insurance money to cover a better pensioner, but we want to move money elsewhere from the government. What is then worth for us to keep in mind in all of this, especially when we consider the aging of the people, is that we are today saving money but throwing the crown in all too many cases. Home services and nursing needs to be more supportive. There's an additional contribution to home nursing to 100 million on the budget bill, but the state is saving 80 million because the nurses have a good pension for the state to shepherd their pensions and give it just over 70 thousand a day's money. You might have thought that the way you do your home nurse could be more than just what the state saves by caring for people's pensions. Because of it. paritaprevir Here I Björnsdóttir a similar experience of my father regarding blindness. So we have people who live in our home who are faced with loss of sight but who are not given the necessary medication to prevent premature blindness because of access to health insurance. The people will then have to move into a nursing home, where there will be room for 9 million a year. What, then, is the savings behind such wickedness and amazing developments? It is this overall picture of the quality of life people, people's lives, and that people are self - preserved for the rest of their lives, that the government has to keep in mind, and that it is extremely dangerous if health insurance is to try to save in this way the life - saving drugs that keep people at home, allowing it to save a lot of money by living in its own pension and not being a burden in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u28	Mr. President. It's been a great talk. There are different priorities, some feel that it is proper to increase the State's spending level, and they include means of financing to increase taxes. I know that these have been some of the ways in which people have preached tax increases, some of them tens of billions, in discussions about these matters under other programs. Tourism is called, hunting costs are named, and this is mentioned, but it forgets a little in the discussion that this is not just a matter of finding income, it is also a matter of controlling the long - term government spending levels. In any case, we are here discussing a delicate group that is receiving a large sum of compensation for the newly introduced financial bill. That's important. It is also important to keep up a good conversation with that group and to find ways to do better because we feel the most sensitive groups. I think it's a good agreement that reevaluating social security can mean a lot to me. With regard to improvements in general - and here came a why. Harðardóttir For example, I have felt that unemployment is in harmony with another law. I object to what the Conspiracy has been running here at the council that it would be wrong to cut down the unemployment period from three years to two and a half. They also objected that efficacy should be resources for community assistance. I think it's the wrong course, and the Department of Social Affairs gave me a bill on the subject that I think we might have handled better. And I don't think unemployment should be as high as the lowest wage, I'm just that. It is different with those who have completed their career or who are permanently convicted by the labor market because of disability, only other laws there. That's what I'm talking about. A senator and a original - speaking person mentioned drugs and has been exposed to those who are hearing loss - these are issues that we need to take better care of. Hence, it is also a joy to know that the health minister has said that he is going to eliminate waitings for eye stones and procedures, including orthopaedic surgery. [[The president calls.]] It's a case in which we have an earmarked special property.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u29	V.E.G. President. When I first found out about the development of the Iceland Institute of Development, I didn't feel that it was a big issue. These were organizational adjustments. It was of prime importance to ensure that the activities within the walls of the Development Agency wherever they were saved were. But as I learn more about it, and I've listened to a discussion about it, the worse I feel. The fact is that against these organizational changes, there have been very thorough and grammatical arguments of various kinds, but I can't see any arguments on the top. Secretary of state reporting. They are not included in the bill's report or in the language of the bill. Minister when he presented the case. And that is true both in spring and then again now. We reviewed these matters during a discussion at the council yesterday, and I decided to return quietly, especially on one of the main issues involved in the personnel department. The report on the bill says that all the current staff of the European Development Agency will be assured work within the Ministry's wall if this bill is to be laid down and the European Development Agency will be submitted to the Agency's umbrella. The discussion then showed that the cost is not at all correct. The workers are indeed to move - to the exception of only the officer himself. Now it stands out from the highest. Minister and anyone I've heard in the book on Developmental Cooperation Organization that this appointed employee, this director of the Iceland Development Agency, is very good, he's done well, he's done well, and there's nothing he's doing. It has been suggested that the legal rights of the workers differ, either with general employees and officials, or that are employed on the grounds of officials. What is the basis for this? Yes, an official shall be hired to five years of age according to laws relevant to that date since 1996, starting 1997. If the boss's mind is involved, he should report it on specific notice. That's what's at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has sent a letter to the presiding officer who is informed of this. This is where the anomaly comes from the law text or text of the law, which is found in the paper with the bill. So that doesn't apply to all employees. I have to say that looking at organizational adjustments in recent years have frequently been placed into the laws on the legal status of employees, including the guarantee of continuing work under new circumstances. This has been true of all employees, general employees as well as managers who live in the employment contracts, similar to those made by the head of the Development Agency. Therefore, I have observed that the Minister leaves no doubt that these laws will be followed. Sadly, in various matters, I'm referring, for example, to transport agencies that the present government has not lived up to the promises made to employees in connection with these changes. [[The president calls.]] You can't do that again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir His jealous son Jónasson puts into this discussion. I only watched her last night, but I didn't have a chance to be part of her, but I'm gonna blend in with her today because I feel the same way. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson. I think it's getting worse as you look at it more. Until the time that the bill was submitted, I had found that I had the impression that a developing cohesion agency and the work there would be exemplary and generally a great pleasure with the arrangements for work. I wondered what sound reasoning there is that could be behind the fact that men go on like this. I know another similar example that this case reminds me of. It happened here at the beginning of this terms, that the group of work that had been led by the operation had been led by the operation. Guðmundur The Steingrímsson's program for user-controlled personal assistance was decommissioned at the highest level. Social Affairs Minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, disintegrated, switched the lead to the staff with the highest argument. A minister wanted the operation to recover, as it was then said. If a person examines the results of that decision, nothing positive has occurred in that category. There is chaos, insecurity, and anxiety among those who have made good use of this service and who were happy for the development of it. It looks like the highest. Secretary of State is going to go the same path, take this group of litigators into the Ministry, absolutely without support. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's consequences are as far as he believes this will take place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u31	Mr. President. I believe this may have harmful consequences. For good reason, people have set out to try to remove the political authority from the administration within the administration board, but then they are taking a separate position and thus ensuring increased transparency. For example, it is one thing that can cause a person to become a victim of such a change, thus reducing the level of transparency. I have called attention to the fact that public finance bill, as it were, and in our case, it also makes possible that in our case, leading to greater authority, increasing fields of activity, and increasing power, can lead to reduced transparency. When all of this comes together, I think there's a reason to worry about it. It violates the aims of human beings in general within the administration, separate work, and oversight. I view the Ministry as being like a shell that doesn't necessarily have the flower inside the table and not even put it above everything. This is a huge amount of money, about billions of dollars, and I think this will reduce the transparency of a developing research agency that is put down and all the work is being brought under the wing of the Ministry. I think it'll be a danger to think that it will be the transparency that will become the victim.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u32	A respectable president. I think that's exactly what people need to consider in this context. It's not the same thing; an independent institution whose role is defined, such as the Development Organization, and then some office in the Ministry. What is the Ministry? It is some form of art and craft for the person taking the group of litigation at a time. It is the Ministry of Ministers, as it were, so the boundaries between this defined role of the Agency and the Ministry have been completely cleared. The task is not merely an intertwining project, one that humans do for a certain time, and it is accomplished, but a ongoing task, our duty in the society of civilized nations to whom we are assigned at one time. It should not be subject to the political expedition or the Ministry of Ministers at any time. There's supposed to be a policy on these subjects. Society and society set their course and take them away completely from who is the minister each time. It should not depend on his natural authority. If he wishes to change the nation's policy in these matters, he should do so well and bring them into this council and provide a legal bill on that matter, offer suggestions and tell them what changes he would like to make. It is below all caves to do this with such a weak argument as this. It is quite amusing to read clauses in this case that assume that political power is not strengthened by creating a Senate committee that should be met twice a year to discuss this sect twice a year, twice a year. It now shows the highest view. The minister of foreign affairs has to do with the importance of the group of paintings that now dominates the world's discussion. This, however, makes it appropriate for the minister to be spoken of in the political field twice a year. [[The president calls.]] It's shameful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u33	V.E.G. President. Would it be a good idea for us to move the Vega program into the State Department? Would that be a good idea? Would this result in increased efficiency? It would certainly be more close between the minister and the manager, but no man would think of suggesting it. The secretary offers suggestions on transport planning. It's all about it. It's about consent or port. A general policy comes from the Council. Since then, the Ministry has oversight of the project but at a certain distance. There is a specific organisation that cares for this and then there are factors that will, if necessary, be involved in any policy development, etc. But no living man would think of bringing the operation into the walls of the Ministry, to carry out the road work as one floor in the Ministry. I think of it as similar. We're talking about billions of projects, which are now caused by an independent agency that substantiates by this bill's proposals, that is clearly laid down, that is to be put down as such, and to move the operation into the Ministry's walls. I believe it will reduce transparency as well as it goes against what is being tried to do everywhere in the administration. Although I don't always agree with Government Accounting, especially when it comes to so - called human resources or human resources, as some have called it, I agree with her. It is the best thing for those who have studied these matters to know that this is not in the spirit of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u34	Mr. President. I don't know why. A senator recognizes that there has been an assessment of the best development arrangements. It is one conclusion: It is not a matter of priority. The most important factor in success is the political leadership of the group. It matters. For example, it is one of the findings of a report received to the State Department last year, but it is quite clear to the highest degree. The minister of foreign affairs has never seen a battle or possibly any member of his best ministry. For example, the report shows that Iceland is in the largest group in the United States, U.S.A. to the group having an arrangement where there is a special organisation and then the Ministry, the State Department of State, which, of course, will implement policies within the legal sources and policies provided by the law and by him and then will monitor how the project works. This is the case in the vast majority of countries within the DEC group of so-called OECD members. It is fascinating to see how this has been being changed. For example, we see Italy. There was a very thorough assessment of how to handle matters, and the result was that Italians changed the arrangement one and a half years ago and adopted the standard arrangement in Iceland because they considered it to be the most successful. Other nations have had it differently, such as the British, who thought to do it best, a special ministry. But I would like to ask. Senator: He does not feel that this is more logical by maintaining the present system at least ... untiltheDAC group has carried out their peer reviews?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u35	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I totally agree. We are to look to what other nations today learn from and where they want to go. But I feel that the main thing is in two things: looking to what we are in general trying to do within the administration, looking to the prince we're building upon. I stress that it is absolutely against it. Then there is the other. A senator and a former chief. Secretary of State, Össur Skarphéðinsson, points out that this is now an assessment of the affairs of the OECD, the institution or group of the OECD who is developing in the development sector. Of course, we are to wait for these findings to occur in the coming year. If it were so that we would save with these changes large sums of money or if something was at stake that would not be held back, this would be a different matter, but it is not. There's no evidence other than to suggest that it's only to be. Therefore, I feel allegorized that the case will be put on ice, and we will follow the assessment carried out by international institutions at this time in the development process. It is a lot of money, a lot of money, and we are talking about building for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u36	Mr. President. It was fitting. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson is here recording employees' issues. He has all his life, both political life and before it began, been a fighter for the full rights of employees. But what do you think? paritaprevir Do you think Ögmundur the son of Jónasson was concerned about another aspect of this matter? How does he feel about the highest possible situation? A minister repeatedly addresses the Agency, both in his talks now, last year and in his report? Time and again, it is suggested that the Agency is somehow out of the direction we and the Ministry have developed. Diversity is said to be needed, as is the need to be adjusted, and the overlap of both policy and implementation is discussed. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason voluntarily chose to testify on this matter yesterday. He said that he had sat at all meetings of the Department of State Affairs, where the Ministry and Minister themselves were constantly asked about this. Nowhere was there one example of a different policy, of not being treated properly with money, or of some type of biplicity or overlap. Still comes the highest. Minister here and repeat this. I ask the old leader from the class struggle: What do the alliances and the workers' union call it when the executives, the seaman, the Minister, repeatedly come down and over again, and repeat a statement that cannot help but fall from confidence in the Agency? Does that not help you to avoid being harassed? And when it's repeated year after year, isn't it a bit of a polygraph? Can it not be said that this is literally an attack on the credibility of the Agency?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u37	V.E.G. President. It has been made known that there are double acts and that there are discrepancies in the system without any evidence being presented, such as in any case. A senator referred to the bill's report, and we turned back yesterday, and I did so among others. I agree with that it is definitely a fall to undermine the credibility of the Agency but it also undermines the credibility of the Ministry of State to claim such things without being able to give convincing reasons for its claim. What I would have considered to be a worthy assignment now is to examine the management of the Agency. It was discussed quite a bit yesterday in what way it should be, the attendance of members of Congress, etc. in 2008 and again in 2012, there were reports on this aspect of the matter. I'd like to be a good breakthrough this year to take the management of the Iceland Development Agency for analysis, but to put ice on the other side, moving the operation into the Ministry. I think there might be some success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u38	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll talk to the bill as the highest. Minister of State moving for the second time, bill to legalize the law on international development teamwork in Iceland and the United States. (organization). This matter of Congress has been given the number 91 and is on the street. Ninety-one. For example, the flubber and the intensity of its height. The minister of state to strike and put down a development team, as he announces, then this matter is followed by financial and alliances, which are usually the first. Often, more important executives have received the first seats of a newly appointed assembly, other than the mismanagement here. When I listened to what I heard. Jónasson Ögmundur'd like to say this if this bill ever becomes the law that I don't hope, that everyone should get a job in the Ministry, maybe not comparable but something different, but then something else to the director, I'd like to say this: In the relatively recent government of Iceland, the one that sits, whether it was February, March, or April I don't remember, it didn't really matter, we got into the job committee, when we were discussing the source. Marine secretary on the unitedness of the Habitat Research Agency and the Institute for Fishing, i.e. It was observed by one official that the reports and agreements and all of them should not take place as has usually been done, which we both know, ex - secretary of transportation, but, in a very different way, according to the recent approved government of Iceland. I had never heard it, and it wasn't on the bill, so I requested that this approval and the benefit come to us on the committee and be subject to it. Now I must admit, most respectable president, that I did not have time to draw out this document to read it and put it out, but I would like to reiterate that with this approval it is going new ways to resign people, employees of the state. Among other things, if I recall correctly, it would make it easier for me to put down small government institutions. Therefore, I ask, Have they heard of this? Has the highest. The minister of state, who was hopefully at that government meeting, studied that matter? Is that the way to go if this bad bill goes through? Should the officers, such as this relatively recent government approval, be dismissed, are there any other way than they have gone so far as to unite the institutions? I'm asking the highest. Secretary of State, and hopefully he will answer that question when we have time to close this discussion. A respectable president. The bad news is bad luck is back in here. I would have thought it was the highest. The minister of foreign affairs would keep an effort to consider it more closely after the shame he had carried this same bill during his last council. It's a bad case, and it's only getting worse during further discussions, and I quote it and remind you of it. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason told us yesterday in a Senate speech. He listened to a discussion, probably also at the Foreign Affairs Committee, and found no conclusion as to why this was being done. How did the European Development Agency come to be? You see, there was a candidate in the seat of the minister of foreign affairs, as it is now. It was April 7, 1981 that the then foreign minister Ólafur, named Jóhannesson, gave a legal bill to the establishment of the European Development Agency. That bill discussed a resolution adopted at the United Nations Parliament for the purpose of a industrialized state at least 1% of national incomes to support developing countries. I would like to read from the General Assembly magazine what the then foreign minister, Ólafur son of Jóhannesson, said, with the permission of a president: ▪ One of the more important subjects worldwide each year is the debate that has taken place, mainly in the United Nations, in dealing with rich and needy people. An important factor in this is the requirement for developing countries to be more assisted by the developed nations, which, in turn, enable them to stand on their own feet. It may not be unusual for the minister of foreign affairs to come out of the hall and not want to listen to the grounds set by the candidate and then the minister of foreign affairs, Ólafur the late son of Jóhannesson, through the development of the Iceland Development Research Agency. It's very important that you do so. This was an important and good goal. Then, the former minister of foreign affairs, Ólafur Jóhannesson, writes that shortly before the above resolution was adopted at the United Nations Parliament at the General Act on New Organization, Iceland's Support in Developing Countries, No. 20/1971. So it was first discussed helping 1% of the nation's income. Then the Directorates of Iceland's Commission for developing countries proposed to the then Minister of Ministers, i.e. For example, two years before he gave the bill, Ólafur, named Jóhannesson, took part in a reexamination of the law. He did so and entrusted it to the management board. In other words, the bill brought by the minister was intended to replace the law. V.E.G. So the minister said, with the permission of the president: There are some new words in this bill. It is now replaced by the Agency's name and is known as Iceland's Development Group. It is not a good name, and it would be good if a person could find a better name. In fact, they didn't find it in the upper ward or in the lower ward. Then this matter was taken up in wards, and in both divisions, the representatives of each group agreed to recommend a unanimousity with the approved bill for the European Development Agency as planned. 603. There was not a single adjustment proposal. But now, the candidate, the highest. The minister of the ministry of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, for the second time with this bad bill, will attack this institution and the good work it has done, in the opinion of many people, including the State Accounting Committee, and will reassign the Agency to its Ministry. A respectable president. There is no sound argument in the bill for why this is done. I reiterate what I said in my last discussion on this matter that I think this is an insult and up to the greatest hatred. Ministers to this institution and the staff who may have visited the State Department and expressed their views and spoke honestly. That's what I think it is. The minister of foreign affairs cannot tolerate, so he attacks this institution and its activities. It is quite likely that this too is under extensive surgery at the Department of State since then. Councilmen, vice president and chairman of the budget board, i.e. Gudle Guðlaugur Hauksdóttir Þór Þórðarson and Vigdís Hauksdóttir attacked funding for the Ministry of State. I guess it was for the 2013 budget that much was cut down at the Ministry. The minister how much sorrow he felt was causing him great injustice. Now I think the capital of an independent agency should be attacked, i.e. The European Development Agency, bringing it with skin and hair into the Ministry, beautifully saying that employees will be resolded and all of that. I think people are after the money of the Development Agency and want to put them in the Ministry itself and that those who work there will not only do their development teamwork, as they are doing today, but they will be put on other things. May I at the end, please, give you one question, to the highest level. A foreign minister if he would kindly answer that question at the end of a discussion or whenever he would like to do so? Could it be that if he achieves his own way and enters the Ministry, three or four members of the ambassadors will be appointed by ambassadors to handle these matters? I ask because we read this bill and with the discussion that has taken place there has been no proper evidence to support the procedure and intention of the minister unless that is the reason I discussed here. This is where we talked. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, former U.S.A. Secretary of state, to answer the question. paritaprevir Ögmundur Jónasson, speaking of how a minister of foreign affairs is going to be around this institution today, asked whether it did not approach outright harassment against her employees. You see, I think you're right. Why was the president not taken along when the Supreme Director was taken. Ministers of State, and no doubt some others visited a certain country to discuss developing cooperation? Why is that? Is it really true that this discussion has given rise to the highest point? The secretary of state has written a letter to the director informing him that he will not be reassigned, one or a half years before the end of his recruitment period? I find no other conclusion on this matter and on the teraphim being done, moving the Agency into the Ministry. Now it's a good time to say a question. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son, who he set out here earlier. Will anyone, such as the Minister of the Interior, ever think of taking the Vega project and making it some department of the State Department? Of course not! Of course, we would never agree with that. I'm going to allow me to question the fact that at any point in his career in development, he's going to be so stupid as to come up with what's being done here at the Institute of Development. A respectable president. As I've said, I'm not wise in this matter, and I ask why in the world. After the great opposition that took place during the last assembly, a minister takes it back. In the time of the last government, the greatest contribution to the development of a research organization ever made by the Icelanders was the government. It is one example of how the then existing government did many things in a very different way than the present government, when the then supreme ruler. The minister of the State promoted it and achieved it through government and government classes. Was it not up to 1 billion added in the development and teaming of evolution? We are the rich nation to assist in this regard. What has been done during the development of Iceland's cooperation to help countries and nations have been exemplary. I want it to go on. If I'd had more time, I'd have been willing to turn this bill over to ask questions about the Government's Minister of Ministers in terms of the arrival of refugees, but I can't right now. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u39	A respectable president. I intend to end up with this discussion to answer most of the questions that have been raised here, but there are not so many, it's repeated material for most members of the council. I come up here, however, using this time to protest certain things as well. A senator said about methodology and other matters involved with the director of the Agency, will review this later. Here, at times, people have talked about working in this platform, a new practice. Recently, I requested to have a vice - form group of members of the United States come to my place to give a talk on the site of a celebration for the construction of their trades. It's a project to start, a great project for the whole country, for the Westland and for our district, the Northwestern District. Group member refused to allow me to slip away, but I suggest that this discussion be postponed. I can be back by now. 7 and suggest that the discussion be postponed. But this is interesting in view of the discussions that have taken place on a new practice and in view of the fact that I don't know how many times during the last term the government's opposition stood in parallel to the present council at that time. But this is the Conspiracy that acts like this. I'm gonna leave the room now. It's not I who directs a meeting, of course not, but I suggest that the discussion be postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u40	A respectable president. There's really no answer because I saw a foreign minister who answered me and suggested that a meeting be postponed and I agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u41	A respectable president. My experience is not in the field of development, so I may not have the highest knowledge in that field, but we will discuss an institution that is involved in developing cooperation and I want to be able to trust that I am professional because I am a citizen in a community that is part of the world, and therefore we have all the responsibility for developing cooperation. However, my experience is quite significant when it comes to administrative, policy development, and social reforms in the field of rights and equality, and this experience requires a lot of questions about the intention of bringing the establishment of development cooperation to the Ministry. I find it a little interesting and strange sometimes that we find it extremely difficult to change things that are completely wrong. We find it very difficult to take steps to change something that has long been shown to be out - of - date, needs to be adjusted, and adjusted. But then when something's fine, when something turns out well, like a developing research agency, we really want to make some changes, and that's interesting to me. And I find it strange that governments are wasting their time on such nonsense. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall mentioned in some respects a similar task, a user - controlled personal help, and described how moving it into the Ministry was having a bad effect. To me, it was just a statement of policy, it was the social and housing policy certificate that it wasn't interested in that project. So I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller is whether it just can't be the reason for this case, whether it's here to give a policy declaration that we're going to change our course and maybe make matters worse than we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u42	A respectable president. For one thing, I want to thank you. A senator for this answer and how she brings up her case that leads to the question she asks me at the end. It says correctly, as we agree, that it is important to the development of a development - working organization because it has done well and we all have responsibility in this world, and we at the Council are responsible to help our little brothers and sisters in their trouble. Therefore, men of my past, with the last government, have made a huge contribution to the development of the European Commission. Hv. One senator, who was of great interest: When something has been right, why don't we just leave it alone? Why do we not allow it to continue in our ministry? Why do you want them to be the highest? Minister of State attacking and changing? I agree with that word as a dog. A senator used this to be nonsense. It's a stupid priorities for a government to attack this thing. We can also ask, "Why? " A senator on a system that works as well as others that do not work so well: Why do we try a system that works well? Why is there no greater effort on the government to change a system that is rather defective with all integrated income connections and other such factors in the case of the elderly and the desperate and has been subject to significant discussions during the last days? It is not a prior issue that will be discussed on the third, fourth or fifth day of the council, a legal bill on the change of that system. No. It's just like that. A senator mentioned, there is a system and an agency that has been accepted by public authorities for a professional and good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u43	A respectable president. The thing that makes me feel the most familiar with all of this is that research and our experience shows that it is very important to distinguish between lawmakers, policy makers and those under surveillance. I can't see such a delicate group of subjects, such as developing cooperation that is primarily about protecting human rights and environment, etc. that it may be good to heap all the power or the abuse of power together in one ministry, where everyone will be looking out for themselves. I just can't see that it's going to be good, and it's especially unfortunate now when we're faced with such projects as meeting refugees and taking good care of sitting here and talking about it when we're just going to do our job. Is it possible for us to take part in developing cooperation instead of sitting here and wonder if we should take some institution that will do our job well and plant it in some department? I think we have more work than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u44	V.E.G. President. Once again, I want to thank you. A member of the Parliament for the discussion with his opponent. See you later. In his last words, a senator did not insist on a nail? Can we not begin to do the development teamwork and do what we should do instead of discussing this unfortunate bill of Minister, which attacks this institution we are proud of, and as I said earlier, has gained many recognition for a professional and good job? Hv. A senator also used words that I can well say: Why should we heap all power into the department of law-enforcers, watchmen, etc.? We need to continue the length of arms that has been between here, the development community has done well, and that is to leave that institution alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for his speech. We've had a very good and interesting discussion here on government or good government. I found the subject very interesting. The senator's decision on whether or not here is going new ways to resign employees and even find new ways to lay down organizations. I won't say, I don't have much knowledge of this field or experience, but I think it's clearly part of what we senators should consider. This discussion has asked, natural, several times: Why are you trying to fix something that isn't broken? There does not seem to be any consistent examples, nor is there any evidence of why the Supreme Court is responsible. A minister wants to work so hard that the development community will be laid down and why there is so much urgency. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, for it has now been established that the same approach is immediately next year: Is not the plan to overthrow the arrangement we have now already in the next year, we are getting an assessment of how this system is working and perhaps some suggestions on how to improve something? [[The president calls.]] Why don't we wait for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counterweight and its entourage. If I react first to what happened to her last, on the observation and opinion being carried out and whether we should not wait for it: yes, we should really wait for it, but we should wait, I think, longer after this unfortunate bill goes through because we should just stop it. We don't need any more assessments, but it's okay to have them. One factor is the review. For example, the department has never exceeded the budget. In other words, it has been one of the State's exemplary institutions, yet it is attacked, as is the case here. It may be said that the Agency is a great organization that I don't recall why. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who also led some saving group that was supposed to pass through these objects in their own way, as she spoke of things, attacked a pre-running development community. I believe it was because there was nothing to be found to criticize that institution for. There is nothing but a good job for the director and staff and for all of those who are working in this field who have done well and who have received recognition, as presented here for their work. What I would like to agree further is what I did in part of my speech earlier, touching this new approach of the government to resign the employees and put down small and medium-sized organizations and unite. You see, I think, and you're right. A senator asks me that this new route, this new approved, should apply to what is being done here, although it is not said in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for the answer. This was also shown in the case of the day. A senator wondered if there is money under the Bureau of Development for them to be accepted into the Ministry. Hv. paritaprevir During last night's discussion, Otlin Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir said that the case is being taken from a medical facility, bringing it closer to the minister's political bosom. I'd like to ask you, "What is it?" A member of the council that it may be that the Minister is so concerned with putting all development cooperation under his arm so that he can take part in the use of politics, that developing cooperation will be actually used for political purposes, and then Iceland, as a host of help and not for the political interests of the recipient? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u48	V.E.G. President. Yes, I reiterate what I said in my speech and in my speech. A senator asks me, that I find nothing else in the bill but that the Minister is seeking the financial resources of the European Development Agency to take it under the Ministry's hat, put it in there with everything that it is today and will then take care of the eight employees who are expected to move, move them to other jobs, or after events may not be able to operate if anyone chooses to stop, not to accept continued jobs unless this new approved government should agree with me. Yes, the tracks were afraid, and how much. Minister has spoken, including I'm really scared of the minister what he's doing in this group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u49	Mr. President. In celebration of the statement, the highest. Minister of State before he jumped this door, I'd like to say: There's never been a custom here when there's still a matter of custody and here we are at 1st. that ministerial servants be removed from the discussion, or that they receive special authority from the council, and according to the incident of the council groups, to do so and not to the issue of controversial matters at all. There's always been a cloudless demand for what I know well of myself that if it does, the discussion will be postponed. And only for me to contribute to the experiences of a senator who has been here in four governments I recall when I was here once and had history for a very controversial matter, then members of the council, including the Supreme Court. Minister, comment on it if I threw myself out of the hall to heed the call of nature, so I just kept in my head. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I think I'm probably going to do what's best. The minister said to delay the meeting; I recommend it; there can't be continued without it, and then begin the discussion at the time. 7 Stay by the events until the time of the deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u50	V.E.G. President. I listened attentively to a word. Skarphéðinsson But I have to say, I don't know very well what it's been like in the case of a minister, but I have to say that I thought it was a very strange thing when a minister announced that he wasn't going to be here in this discussion and went on the door. However, I do not feel that I am going to postpone the discussion until the end of the year. 7 because it's the best. Minister to return. I think it's a very normal requirement that we postpone this discussion today and take it back tomorrow instead of spending two hours in our jobs. Just fine. Let's postpone the discussion and continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u51	A respectable president. We talked about this here yesterday at an evening meeting. 8, The Watchtower and Awake! 8 last night, like here, life was on the line with this case. We made no comment. We stayed until midnight yesterday, even though it is eight and a half months to the end of the council. Hence, we must make an observation that now that we are beginning to discuss the matter over and this time in daylight that the minister is leaving. We all have questions to him, I suppose. I'm at least number three on the rosary, and I have a few questions that I believe are relevant to him before the hearing. And I don't feel like starting another winter where you stand here and talk into nothing. It is September 16, and the Ministers have already begun running to their own ends. When it comes to the appearance of the council, all need to look at themselves. [[The president calls.]] The Ministers are to stay here and follow their orders to committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u52	A respectable president. I'm gonna make a note to the President's conference board because it's been a long time since I asked for the word, but I'm sorry. A respectable president. I'm not out of my league as vice-president of Congress. I've been doing it for the right week or so. I'm not usually a wife of formality, but I thought that if there was a formal petition to the council plans that the Ministers would have to replace a meeting and something like that, it would be different than asking, "Do you make any comments if I leave a meeting? I thought we were talking, with the good acquaintances that we were talking about. Ministers are, and he says: " Do you remember to make comments? Yes, of course we make comments. Then I told him, after some thought: But you can naturally ask to postpone a meeting, we don't comment on it. But I shall formally be in the future in the most dignified office it is to be the vice president of the House council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u53	The president asks why. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir of respect for having got mixed up here in the row.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u54	Mr. President. Speaking of formalities, I might have thought it was the highest. A minister should have reviewed it with the council president and with members of Congress that if he felt it was important for him to leave the House, he would have to leave. I think it's best if we just postpone a meeting and we pick up the crowd tomorrow because I'd like to agree with those members of the council who have talked about the lack of the ability to stand here and talk and ask questions that are only the highest level. A minister can answer, and he's not there. So I think it's a good idea that this meeting will just be postponed, and we'll be back in the morning at the highest level. Ministers have done their most important business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u55	Mr. President. So that's the story of Senator 145. We're here for week two, and it happened yesterday that there was a bill for administration. In fact, 8 o'clock in the evening for some reason, which we could better understand, as the discussion pointed forward to the fact that only the minister was on the case. You could tell me that if there was a secret vote in this room, it'd go up 62:1 against the case. Maybe that's why the Minister wants to do it fast and fast, but he's gonna have to stay here while we're discussing it because it's a very serious matter and a big disagreement about it. The minister himself has come up here and requested that the meeting be postponed until the hour. 7 Because he can come back to the discussion. It is normal for me to do so because it is totally unnatural to continue the discussion without the minister's presence. Then let's just take a break at the meeting until then. 7 and then resume the discussion A respectable president. A lot of attention must be given to the way 145th Congress is taking place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u56	A respectable president. I'm very worried about the tactics here at the council. I received the same kind of invitation as the highest. The minister of foreign affairs to enter the district, and that invitation was made on many days' notice and at the highest level. A minister well knew when he was to arrive at the invitation offered to the members of the district. I refused because I was still in the discussion here and naturally felt that the minister of foreign affairs was here too. I find it very strange that then he'll only report it to someone like that in a breath jam that he's going to have to rush out and there's a vice president of the United States Parliament to teach him if he can't attend this party. Of course, it's out of the question to offer us senators for this kind of work, and I don't give much of it to the Bureau of Developmental Cooperation under a Ministry at the highest level. Minister's behaving like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u57	V.E.G. President. I have to come up here to join those who have discussed the President's conference board. I'm amazed that something like this can happen at the council, but you've seen things happen here that you're just dumb about. To look behind the minister of foreign affairs in the first few races - he had asked for the discussion to be postponed so that he could be present at some event - I do not have a single word. This is the priority of the foreign minister of a new council, which is rather strange, for according to our discussion, he could imagine what the discussion would be like today. That he can't sit under it himself is completely prerogative, I think. Although I don't want anything bad about the highest. The minister of state says it's amazing to keep track of this. I suggest that the discussion will simply be postponed until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u58	A respectable president. It's pointless for me to start this conversation again at the end of the day. 19th Here are two Pirata senators on the rosary, and we hope to proceed tonight. However, it must be acknowledged that starting the discussion is a little strange. 19 and completing at the end of the day. 20, having an hour to discuss this matter. It can be assumed that there may be two or three speakers, or something like that, I see no reason to have this hour to talk about tonight. It's not a lot of time. We may as well postpone the discussion the day before tomorrow and pick it up again. I think it would be the same thing with regard to the quality of the discussion, apart from the fact that some members of the Parliament could probably use the rest of the day better in other jobs if that hour period went into something else. To say that, I understand the highest. Secretary of State needs to go, but it's clear that we don't need this hour to talk about this tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u59	Mr. President. I think this event is a reason for concern. A prime committee will consider the matter. I thought it was the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is showing quite a disregard for the council. He'll come up in a pit and talk about what he's doing. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir, vice group president of the United States, said she would make a note of it if he went from house to house. In fact, I thought that he was going to say: " That's why I'm not going out of the house because of doing what the senators want and expecting me to do in this room. But no, he says in the contrary, "I'm going to run, and I'm gone." Mr. President. There's got to be a reason why the Presidency Commission would review this and consider the Senate's position to the Commission in such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u60	Madam President. Here again, the debate over the bill for the European Development Research Institute for Development will begin. This case was brought here by a minister in spring, and he withdrew it, but he has decided to make it his priority and to ask whether there is no issue more urgent than this matter, which is very controversial everywhere. There has been a significant criticism of all of this, the collapse of Iceland's Development Research Institute, under the Ministry of State. The quality and quality of this institution, as shown in the bill itself, are evident by all of the individuals mentioned here in this discussion. 8, with President's permission: THESSI has done a very good job in the field, so it is noted, and it has made many changes in independent assessments. In this context, however, it should be noted that the YSSI methodology and the role of the Agency in the implementation of development projects have made several changes over the years. Thus, the implementation has increasingly been shifted to national parties in Iceland's cooperation countries, such as national governments. Is this change in terms of international declarations of the success of developing cohesion focusing on the establishment of the natives in the development sector. In view of such food, people should beat and defend this institution and allow it to continue to grow and thrive in the direction it has developed, but unfortunately it is not. The Minister of the Foreign Minister believes that putting the bill through the council is his greatest project, and it has begun, so it has had to have a late meeting on this matter and the program broke up as it was today at the time of the highest level. But the rest of us had to stay and wait until the discussion continued rather than simply postpone the case and not resume until tomorrow or when possible. I wonder if the major cut that took place at the Ministry of State in 2013 has something to do with this, that there is a lack of funding in the Ministry, and that's why the Ministry is looking at the top. A minister to the community that will be when the funding of the Development Research Institute is moved into the Ministry because I feel there is no support for any reason in the bill or the Minister's case, for forcing this agency into the Ministry of State. We also know the conference that has been held at the General Assembly regarding the cutoffs for development assistance. We are not honored that in this Assembly Hall, we are overemphasis in development, but fortunately there are not many who speak that way. But if we were a nation among such nations as we should be then, we would be paying about 0.7% of the land's production for development aid. This is about 4 billion today. In our discussion, the minister suggested that about 0.23% of GDP go into this category, but the budget bill shows that the project has been reduced by about 500 million. K. and is in 0.21%. The last government might spit handsomely into the palms of the hands, leaving an additional $1 billion in this category that should have continued to grow, and the donations would have been about 4.7 billion if that plan had been maintained, but unfortunately it would not. It has been observed by the OECD Committee that the largest weakness regarding the performance of the Developmental Agency is that monitoring of the function is lacking and I think it is warranted. Of course, we need to be careful and monitor the function as such so as to be of the best use, but we ask ourselves: Is it really good to have such activities as this under the Ministry, the executives, and policy, execution and monitoring at the same time? I don't think it's good, and I don't think it's a good thing with modern politics. The criticism that has been manifested by the Government Accounting can be pointed out. It has warned of an arrangement whereby one person is opposed, carried out, and monitored. It is more reasonable that the Ministry is acting against policy under the guidance of the Generals and the National Development Institute for Iceland's Development and the operation of a Ministry, which would be a firewall. Furthermore, a state reexamination states that the Ministry's traditional work may not be suitable for business on this suit. A good example of peacekeeping is found in the comments made by the National Retrospect - Unrecognized Goals Control, such as the World Health Organization, which has never been successful and subjugated to a good management system, e.g. jobs are filled without advertisements. There are no official data and no assessments show success. It speaks of the so - called Peacekeeper under the Ministry of State. This bill and the bottom line. As presented here, a minister is primarily based on a report made by the director of the Red Cross. However, more reports have been published. I quote the Sigurbjörg Sigurbourgeir Sigurgeirsdóttir's report on the issues of the Developmental Cooperation Agency and its evidence that the Ministry should not be submitted or entered. The report says, with the permission of the president: There has been a long history of problems with the use of two - sided and multi - sided development policies. To solve the problem, the proposal has been made to intervene in the Ministry of State. This would result in the unity and unity of the international development team and in one hand within the Ministry. Here in these suggestions for a minister, this way is contrary. This is in view of the fact that a number of general management and management projects involved in the implementation of two- sided cooperation are not compatible with the role and work environment of recruitment, but especially with the effects such partners can have on policy working in the media. Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, author of the report, introduced the Foreign Affairs Committee in the spring months 2015. It rejects the evidence that this work is under the motions of a former government under the title of the Samhent Administration. It points out that it is primarily suggested to promote a small department by uniting the Ministry, but it is not the same objective as uniting the Ministry and Professional Services as is being discussed in this case. If so, the Ministry of State is very different from any other agency in the matter of project and work and the European Development Agency is the only Ministry of Education and very important to the identity of the jury. And by moving her into the Ministry, the danger is that the importance of the seminar is greatly increased. Of course, that's what we've been talking about. We're afraid that the severity of the jury will be reduced when it's subjected to the execution. Sigurbjörg points out that professional discussions at the international level over a period of years on integrated business and development were also being conducted, while the DOA Committee pays a great deal of interest in mixing business and business interests with development. Finally, it points out that a co-work committee on development should be sufficient for the introduction of free partners to policy-making, where the Ministry's officials should listen and return their viewpoint so that they can understand the policy. I feel that in all the language that has been presented here since the beginning of this discussion, this debate began again at the beginning of the council that it should not be brought down at all, to an institution using the name Ólafur Jóhannsson, was an initialist, as shown today in a talk by the mouth. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. Although there has been a severe cuts in the Ministry of State, it is not allowed to bend this one profession that is under the Ministry into it because of some consistent effect on funding. There's too much on that subject. The debate has also shown that the flagship there is the successful geothermal school. It is very unlikely that policy and implementation and surveillance are all on the same hand. That's not a good government. The European Development Agency of Iceland has received a first-rate score, both for its performance, for its success, and for the well-being of funds. In other words, it is an exemplary agency in the Icelandic government that should benefit from it and continue its course. It is not expected that the government will save anything by moving the Agency to the State Department of State, but it has been said that the current head will not be recommenced, although it is mentioned in the bill that employees will be reimbursed on the same terms. Of course, I think it is very strange to describe it in advance that the active force of the man who has led the Agency to good works cannot be continued. There is some unclean flour in the sachet corner, and it is not normal. I think we should be waiting for the report that DaAC is working on with regard to peer reviews and we're putting this case on ice and not putting it out of the way. Looks like a minister's gonna do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u61	A respectable president. Like a snooze. paritaprevir So, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, I wondered about the purpose of the bill. If you look at inception of a subject that was submitted to the last council, you will find it very clear, especially in the authority of the Agency itself, how useless this seems to be. The Agency does not work in a charge of budgets, it produces its own, it seems to be appreciated, and you have never heard of some terrible problem involving that institution. That is why you wonder about the purpose. Then it seems to me that the only objective is to give what is here called democratic support, which is really political involved in the way things are done. That's something I'm afraid of. Although I appreciated the highest. Secretary of state as a person, I like to speak to the highest. Secretary of state, I am still very burned after the administration of the government, and especially the Supreme Court. Minister, to power. Then I take as the main example of the EU case, they were not to be asked, so the council was asked, it didn't work, and then the council was not even asked, but they were only planned, as we know. So I am always terribly afraid to promote the authority of this designated government, and, in fact, the governments and the general councils against the institutions and much less the council. I wonder what's wrong. A senator next gets the goal with the bill. Is this saving, or is it just a power transfer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u62	A respectable president. That's what we private senators have been trying to read out on this whole matter. We discussed this in March the last spring for two days, then it went to the State Department, where a number of visitors came to go through the case. Everything in this discussion, both here at the council and in the Foreign Affairs Committee, according to the information I have received from that issue. Committee, it turns out that it is not wise to interfere with the development of Iceland and the work that has so well gone with that institution so far. I'm not the one who can read some prophetic ball about what's going on in the head of the highest. Secretary of State, but I have the feeling that this is not only possible but also the human response to the massive surgery at the State Department, especially under the budget of 2013, that this has begun to surmount on the desk at the highest level. Minister. I don't want to go to the highest. Ministers that he intends to influence this party in a political way to draw it so close to him and not allow the agency to work professionally, but it is never to be known. I don't really want him to do that unless it's proven.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u63	A respectable president. I'm not in the habit of being suspicious, but I'm afraid of the moves, as they say too often. I wondered, as well as with another purpose of the bill - now is the review of the Agency's last council, which she sent in when the case was submitted then, i.e. mainly the Agency, which is normally against the Agency, but I can see as far as I can see that the only reason this is stated is that one particular person working at the Red Cross has proposed it. Besides, I don't see any problems solved. Then I wonder what. A senator is aware of something that might, however, improve the bill if the articles relating to the self-designment of the Agency itself were published, that is, 2, 6, 7, 11, and 14. The Agency itself. I know what you're doing. Is there something in the bill that might improve?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u64	A respectable president. I think what we need to do is wait for the report mentioned here, from the OECD committee, to wait for this DEC report, as it has been called, as the assessment of development cooperation within Europe is being made. If so, we could further discern whether there is something in the organization that can be improved and no doubt we can always do better. But I don't think we're in any hurry about moving into the Agency's office at the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs just like that. This is a bigger and more delicate group of subjects than it can be used in a way that is the only case a foreign minister has at his drawing table, and he intends to beat it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u65	President. It's like being with me. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I wonder about two things I hear that she's wondering about, too. First, why is this bill usually submitted? The OECD development agency has received a good report on the development team. The setting here has been well described. Why, then, should we change? There's no saving of it. The wise men say that what men have out of it is that there will be three new ambassadors'positions. I'd rather not believe such, a respectable president, and I'm hoping it won't be a fool because this bill is going to be accepted, I'm telling you. So, there's the two things I wonder about, which I hear. A senator also does: Why? And then the other, a respectable president, why this noise? Why is there such a hurry? It has been reported that you are equal to 2016. It's six months shorter than the last time we talked about it. And they said unto them, Should we not wait for the equal portion? is it not so far? Now that six months of that waiting period has been cut off, what has been the situation? [[The president calls.]] Could it be, more dignified President, that there's so much need to do the bill before the equal circulation takes place? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that weird? - I'm waiting for the highest. Mr President, I'm sorry I spoke a little too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u66	A respectable president. Yes, of course, you may be surprised to learn that a part of putting this matter into practice at the outset is that it should surely be tried to relieve it during this winter and that it will not be reversed if the positive result comes out of the equal budget. A senator refers to him. It is very exciting to see the ratings of the European Development Agency on the basis of the assessment, whether they are doing well as any previous assessment has shown, whether or not there can be added. V.E.G. A minister saw a great deal of criticism in spring when he presented the matter, which was referred to in this assessment. It's too bad that he didn't have the patience to wait for the peer payment that will come from 2016. It reminds you of another matter, unrelated to the way the Supreme Being is concerned. Ministers work. As activation initiatives were to be accelerated within a frame plan and to try to get them inside the gold gate before a certain time, they were stopped. Well, that's when the big one decided. Environment Minister just waiting for the results of the task management. I think the highest. The minister of the foreign countries should take that fellow minister as a model and wait in this controversial matter at least for the results of the assessment of the Development Committee of the OECD.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator wondered if she has wondered about the changes that are taking place in management, or those taking the Ministry's Strategy for Developmental Cooperation. We're in for 3. to establish a development team and that five members of the Parliament should have a seat, is said here. I can hardly imagine any work that is as cross - political as that of developing teamwork. In view of today's situation, not even every group of people will be able to join them. So I've been thinking about it a little bit. Hv. paritaprevir When Ögmundur's Jónasson has discussed this matter, he has said that it is enough to take the discussion about whether we should change the administration of these matters. What does it say? A senator that we were just focusing on whether the head of development teamwork was revised and not going further? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u68	A respectable president. I think it's a good idea, I think the surveillance role is very important, i.e. ... howto handlethefence. There's a lot of money under there, and Iceland's Development Research Institute gets about 40% of what goes to this suit. Changes can be made without drawing the Agency into the Ministry. It's just that policy, premeditation and surveillance role don't go together. It is quite possible to strengthen the monitoring role of the coming assembly and that the council will more closely observe how the funds are spent without such dramatic changes as they are on the move. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u69	Madam President. It is interesting to see that the arrangement is at its height. To the extent that a minister feels the need to put down the core of his case, the minister feels that he is uninhabited and wasteful to the point that he feels the need to shut down the very essence of his own case, i.e. A developing cohesion agency is an arrangement that has been successful elsewhere. It has been so successful that we have a recent example of a country very active in developing cooperation, which has literally fixed its systems and adopted the same arrangement as Iceland, i.e. Italy. But Iceland is also a group of them with the majority of countries involved in the so-called DAC group of OECD countries. That's interesting for what. A senator is listening to what state Iceland is involved in in this. It is Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Japan, Luxembourg, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, and the United States. The last time Italy was added to this group. All these countries feel that this arrangement is suitable for them. V.E.G. Minister is of the opinion that this has happened to Iceland very badly. The saddest and perhaps true in this discussion is the fact that the minister has not been able to give a single reason for his stand. What would the Icelandic Academy say about this? You see, we have quite a paint in Iceland's University, which has knowledge and experience in this field. Social science is at the front of it. What did she say? She thought it was inconceivable to decommission the agency. But what did she want? After considering the matter, what was her choice? [[The president calls.]] It was expanding the Agency and giving it further work, all the projects that the Ministry of State now has in this area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What do you think? After listening to the discussion, a senator of this counsel?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u70	Madam President. Yes, it's a very interesting suggestion and an answer as well as any. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson brings in here. Why be destroyed, do I just say, something that has been so successful and exemplary? There is a bad example in the way things are carried out. A senator went over a number of other countries, which we can quite look like in these respects. Today, a number of individuals are training themselves to help with evolution, a professional in the university Academy. Of course, we should listen to what reputable institutions like Iceland's Social Science Institute say. I would feel that it would be a much more interesting and more exciting project, if ever. Ministers turned to expand the Agency's activities and bring up the projects currently in this field within the Ministry and are not within the Developmental Cooperative Agency, to it. Of course, it would be a much normal step in the democracies according to today's administration to do so rather than have such old - fashioned practice of drawing an independent agency under the Ministry's wing. When you think more about it, it's such a setback that it's indistinguishable that such a practice is being offered here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u71	Madam President. I've traced the position of a member of the Icelandic acdeia who has been particularly concerned with these matters. I've studied how the National Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland has explained to the State Department, which has been very clear and well supported, why. Minister's on the wrong track. But how is that possible? A minister didn't look for prisoners there? Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said that this was one expert from the Red Cross of Iceland. It is appropriate to review that when that employee returned his report, a milestone report, and discussed it with the State Department, there was no suggestion to submit the Agency. Not at all. It was only after some kind of interference with the back of the tent that this idea developed in a final form. It is true that the qualified employee also writes a special report, using proben, as he notices that he is an employee of the Red Cross, he has tried to avoid any effect on the results, but he asks the reader to have it in the panel when he reviews the report. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u72	Madam President. A respected individual like Þórir Guðmundsson, director of the Red Cross of Iceland, makes this report on the request of a minister and does not directly suggest that this be done. V.E.G. A minister prefers to take advantage of the report as a limp to support the fact that he needs to do so even if he has nothing exactly in this report that supports it. Of course, it would have been the highest. Ministers are to search for prisoners within the university community and beyond, waiting for the results of the OECD Development Committee. It's just that it's so much of a guy's life on the road, and it's not acceptable in such a serious case. I'm just hoping to get to the highest. A minister wisely withdraws this matter and reexamines it with professionals from both the branch and the university community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u73	A respectable president. What's the meaning of the fact that we need to play the game where Valli is, and each time we try to discuss foreign matters? V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs has hardly been present since we began our discussion at seven o'clock. But he showed up on time. This was better because the clock is 18 minutes short for eight. We don't have much time left, do we? Why wasn't the meeting just delayed, so to speak. A minister of state could be present properly, well asleep, well fed, and I don't know what or what? It is natural that he is not present when we discuss one of his main priorities. What does it mean to invite us members of the council to do this? It's just not appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u74	President wants to point them out. Congress officials are expected to serve at the highest level. Secretary of State is sitting here in the side hall listening to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u75	He hasn't been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-16-7.u76	Madam President. I can't help but come here and say what I want to say. paritaprevir Ásta on to Guðrún Helgadóttir. She may be the youngest senator who sits here as a permanent senator, has recently taken a permanent seat at the council. After a few days in that role, her conclusion is that there would be a peak of behavior. A minister who is now hiking in a room with regard to the discussion is a scandal. I can't help but agree with that. That's rude of the highest. Minister not to be present during the discussion. The Senate has shown him a lot of excitement by agreeing to postpone the discussion and start it again tonight instead of just starting tomorrow so that he can do other responsibilities. Then it's the lowest to the highest. Minister will respect this by at least Is it dangerous to sit for just a few minutes under the talks rather than a cell phone somewhere else in the house? [[The president calls.]]
